MINERVA PARK, OHIO
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2022 S-3 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance No. 16-2021, passed 12-14-2021
State legislation current through April 6, 2022
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
PART TWO: ADMINISTRATION CODE
   TITLE TWO - GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
CHAP. 202.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; DEFINITIONS; GENERAL CODE PENALTY
      
CHAP. 204.   OFFICIAL STANDARDS
      
CHAP. 206.   PUBLIC MEETINGS
      
CHAP. 208.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
   TITLE FOUR – LEGISLATION
      
CHAP. 220.   COUNCIL
      
CHAP. 222.   ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
   TITLE SIX – ADMINISTRATION
      
CHAP. 230.   MAYOR
      
CHAP. 232.   DIRECTOR OF LAW
      
CHAP. 234.   FISCAL OFFICER
      
CHAP. 236.   STREET COMMISSIONER
      
CHAP. 238.   MAINTENANCE SUPERVISOR
      
CHAP. 240.   VILLAGE ENGINEER
      
CHAP. 242.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
CHAP. 244.   FIRE DEPARTMENT AND FIRE PROTECTION
      
CHAP. 246.   SEASONAL EMPLOYEES
      
CHAP. 248.   DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE PROGRAM
      
CHAP. 250.   EMPLOYEE HANDBOOK
      
CHAP. 251.   INDIGENT BURIALS
      
CHAP. 252.   HEALTHCARE
   TITLE EIGHT – BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
      
CHAP. 280.   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
      
CHAP. 282.   RECORDS COMMISSION
      
CHAP. 284.    VOLUNTEER FIRE FIGHTERS DEPENDENTS FUND BOARD
   TITLE TEN – JUDICIARY
      
CHAP. 290.   MAYOR’S COURT
TITLE TWO: GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 202: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; DEFINITIONS; GENERAL CODE PENALTY
Section
202.01   Designation; citation; headings.
202.02   General definitions.
202.03   Rules of construction.
202.04   Revivor; effect of re-enactment, amendment or repeal.
202.05   Construction of section references.
202.06   General repealer; conflicts.
202.07   Separability.
202.99   General code penalty.
Cross-reference:
   General offenses code penalties and sentencing, see
Ch. 698
   Ordinances and resolutions, see
Ch. 222
   Statute of limitations on prosecutions, see §
606.06
   Traffic code penalties, see
Ch. 408
Statutory reference:
   Codification in book form, see R.C. § 731.23
   Imprisonment until fine paid, see R.C. §§ 1905.30, 2947.14
§ 202.01 DESIGNATION; CITATION; HEADINGS.
   This document, consisting of general and permanent legislation relating to
Ohio villages in general, together with such general and permanent legislation
of the municipality that Council may wish to include herein, as revised,
arranged, compiled, numbered, codified and printed herewith, consolidated into
component codes, titles, chapters and sections, shall be known, designated and
cited as the Village of Minerva Park Code of Ordinances, for which designation
the term “Codified Ordinances” or “Codified Ordinances of the village” may be
substituted. Code, title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in this Code.
§ 202.02 GENERAL DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this code of ordinances, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (a)   “And.” May be read “or”, and “or” may be read “and”, if the sense
requires it.
   (b)   “Another.” When used to designate the owner of property which is the
subject of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other
owner of property.
   (c)   “Bond.” Includes an undertaking.
   (d)   “Child.” Includes child by adoption.
   (e)   “Council.” The legislative authority of the municipality.
   (f)   “County.” The County of Franklin, State of Ohio.
   (g)   “Fire Chief.” Shall include the Chief of the Fire Department if such
Fire Department has been established in the municipality, and shall include the
Fire Prevention Officer if no Fire Department has been established in the
municipality.
   (h)   “Imprisoned.” Shall have the same meaning as in R.C. § 1.05.
   (i)   “Internet.” The international computer network of both federal and
non-federal interoperable packet switched data networks, including the
graphical subnetwork known as the world wide web.
   (j)   “Keeper” or “proprietor.” Includes all persons, whether acting by
themselves or as a servant, agent or employee.
   (k)   “Land” or “real estate.” Includes rights and easements of incorporeal
nature.
   (l)   “Legislative authority.” The legislative authority of the
municipality.
   (m)   “May.” The action referred to is permissive.
   (n)   “Municipality” or “village.” The Village of Minerva Park, Ohio.
   (o)   “O.A.C.” Refers to the Ohio Administrative Code.
   (p)   “Oath.” Includes affirmation; and “swear” includes affirm.
   (q)   “Owner.” When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint
owner or tenant in common of the whole or part of the property.
   (r)   “Person.” Includes an individual, corporation, business trust, estate,
trust, partnership and association.
   (s)   “Personal property.” Includes all property except real property.
   (t)   “Plan of sewerage,” “system of sewerage,” “sewer” and “sewers.”
Includes sewers, sewage disposal works and treatment plants, and sewage pumping
stations, together with facilities and appurtenances necessary and proper
therefor.
   (u)   “Premises.” As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   (v)   “Property.” Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   (w)   “Public authority.” Includes boards of education; the municipal,
county, state or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any
duly authorized public official.
   (x)   “Public place.” Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school
yard, body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for
the sale of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   (y)   “Real property.” Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   (z)   “Registered mail.” Includes certified mail; and “certified mail”
includes registered mail.
   (aa)   “Revised Code” or “R.C.” Refers to the Ohio Revised Code.
   (bb)   “Shall.” The action referred to is mandatory.
   (cc)   “Sidewalk.” That portion of the street between the curb line and the
adjacent property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   (dd)   “State.” The State of Ohio.
   (ee)   “Street.” Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads,
highways, viaducts and all other public thoroughfares within the municipality.
   (ff)   “Tenant” or “occupant.” As applied to premises, includes any person
holding a written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part
of the premises, alone or with others.
   (gg)   “Undertaking.” Includes a bond.
   (hh)   “Week.” Seven consecutive days.
   (ii)   “Whoever.” Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners;
principals, agents and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   (jj)   “Writing.” Includes printing.
   (kk)   “Written” or “in writing.” Include any representation of words,
letters, symbols or figures; this provision does not affect any law relating to
signatures.
   (ll)   “Year.” Twelve consecutive months.
(R.C. §§ 1.02, 1.05, 1.44, 1.59, 701.01)
§ 202.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (a)   Common and Technical Use. Words and phrases shall be read in context
and construed according to the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and
phrases that have acquired a technical or particular meaning, whether by
legislative definition or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
(R.C. § 1.42)
   (b)   Singular and Plural; Gender; Tense. As used in this code, unless the
context otherwise requires:
      (1)   The singular includes the plural, and the plural includes the
singular;
      (2)   Words of one gender include the other genders; and
      (3)   Words in the present tense include the future tense.
(R.C. § 1.43)
   (c)   Computation of Time.
      (1)   The time within which an act is required by law to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day; except that when
the last day falls on Sunday or a legal holiday, then the act may be done on
the next succeeding day that is not a Sunday or a legal holiday.
      (2)   When a public office, in which an act required by law is to be
performed, is closed to the public for the entire day that constitutes the last
day for doing the act or before its usual closing time on that day, the act may
be performed on the next succeeding day that is not a Sunday or a legal
holiday.
      (3)   “Legal holiday,” as used in divisions (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this
section, means the following days:
         A.   The first day of January, known as New Year’s Day;
         B.   The third Monday in January, known as Martin Luther King, Jr.
Day;
         C.   The third Monday in February, known as President’s Day;
         D.   The day designated in the “Act of June 28, 1968”, 82 Stat. 250, 5
U.S.C. 6103, as amended, for the commemoration of Memorial Day;
         E.   The nineteenth day of June, known as Juneteenth day;
         F.   The fourth day of July, known as Independence Day;
         G.   The first Monday in September, known as Labor Day;
         H.   The second Monday in October, known as Columbus Day;
         I.   The eleventh day of November, known as Veteran’s Day;
         J.   The fourth Thursday in November, known as Thanksgiving Day;
         K.   The twenty-fifth day of December, known as Christmas Day; and
         L.   Any day appointed and recommended by the Governor of this state
or the President of the United States as a holiday.
      (4)   If any day designated in this section as a legal holiday falls on a
Sunday, the next succeeding day is a legal holiday.
(R.C. § 1.14)
      (5)   When an act is to take effect or become operative from and after a
day named, no part of that day shall be included. If priority of legal rights
depends upon the order of events on the same day, the priority shall be
determined by the times in the day at which they respectively occurred.
(R.C. § 1.15)
      (6)   If a number of months is to be computed by counting the months from
a particular day, the period ends on the same numerical day in the concluding
month as the day of the month from which the computation is begun, unless there
are not that many days in the concluding month, in which case the period ends
on the last day of that month.
(R.C. § 1.45)
§ 202.04 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF RE-ENACTMENT, AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (a)   The repeal of a repealing provision of this code does not revive the
provision originally repealed nor impair the effect of any saving clause
therein.
(R.C. § 1.57)
   (b)   The re-enactment, amendment or repeal of this code does not, except as
provided in division (c) of this section:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the provision or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment; and the
investigation, proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture or punishment imposed, as if the provision had not
been repealed or amended.
   (c)   If the penalty, forfeiture or punishment for any offense is reduced by
a re-enactment or amendment of this code, the penalty, forfeiture or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to this code as
amended.
(R.C. § 1.58)
§ 202.05 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (a)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, or of divisions or subdivisions of a
section, the reference shall be construed to mean a violation of any provision
of the section, sections, divisions or subdivisions included in the reference.
   (b)   References in this code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of this code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
(R.C. § 1.23)
   (c)   A reference to any portion of a provision of this code applies to all
re-enactments or amendments thereof.
(R.C. § 1.55)
   (d)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 202.06 GENERAL REPEALER; CONFLICTS.
   (a)   All ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations of the
municipality, and all parts of the same, enacted prior to the date of the
adoption of this code and inconsistent or in conflict with any of the
provisions of this code, are hereby repealed, save and except any ordinance,
resolution, rule or regulation, or part of the same, expressly excepted from
repeal by the ordinance that adopts this code. No ordinance, resolution, rule
or regulation, or part of the same, of the municipality, that is not
inconsistent or in conflict with any of the provisions of this code and/or that
can be reasonably interpreted to be compatible with the provisions of this
code, shall be deemed to be repealed by the adoption of this code. Such
ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations, and all parts of the same,
shall continue to be viable and enforceable by the municipality.
   (b)   In the event of a conflict between any of the provisions of this code,
or between any of the provisions of this code and a provision of any standard
code adopted by the municipality pursuant to R.C. § 731.231, the provision that
establishes the higher or stricter standard shall control. In the event of a
conflict between any of the provisions of this code and any provision of state
law, including rules and regulations promulgated pursuant to state law, the
state law, rule or regulation shall control.
§ 202.07 SEPARABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of this code or the application thereof to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions or applications of the section or related sections which can
be given effect without the invalid provision or application, and to this end
the provisions are severable.
(R.C. § 1.50)
§ 202.99 GENERAL CODE PENALTY.
   (a)   Whenever, in this code or in any ordinance of the municipality, any
act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a
misdemeanor, or whenever the doing of any act is required or the failure to do
any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is otherwise
provided, whoever violates any such provision shall be punished by a fine not
exceeding $500, a term of imprisonment not exceeding six months, or both. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a
violation continues or occurs.
   (b)   The failure of any officer or employee of the municipality to perform
any official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or
employee to the penalty imposed for a violation unless a penalty is
specifically provided for the failure.
(R.C. § 715.67)
CHAPTER 204: OFFICIAL STANDARDS
EDITOR’S NOTE: The State of Ohio operates on Eastern Daylight Savings Time from
2:00 a.m. of the first Sunday in April until 2:00 a.m. of the last Sunday in
October. Congress, on March 22, 1966, passed the Uniform Time Act requiring
uniform observances throughout the nation of Daylight Savings Time starting in
1967, except that a state legislature could exempt an entire state from
Daylight Savings Time or divide a state into not more than two parts, each with
a different time standard. The Ohio legislature, through inaction, has elected
to observe Eastern Daylight Savings Time throughout the State of Ohio.
   On August 8, 2005, the Energy Policy Act of 2005 was enacted. This Act
changed the time change dates for Daylight Saving Time in the United States.
Beginning in 2007, the State of Ohio begins Daylight Saving Time at 2:00 a.m.
on the second Sunday in March and reverts to standard time at 2:00 a.m. on the
first Sunday in November. The Secretary of Energy will report the impact of
this change to Congress. Congress retains the right to resume the 2005 Daylight
Saving Time schedule once the Department of Energy study is complete.
Section
204.01   Village flag.
204.02   Official newspaper.
204.03   Public records policy.
204.04   Symbols.
Statutory reference:
   State flag and other insignia, see R.C. §§ 5.01 et seq.
   State legal holidays, see R.C. §§ 1.14, 5.20 et seq., 1303.45
   State seals, see R.C. §§ 5.10 et seq.
   State standard of time, see R.C. § 1.04
§ 204.01 VILLAGE FLAG.
   (a)   There is hereby adopted an official village flag.
   (b)   The official village flag shall be white with the Minerva Park Stone
Pillar depicting Lady Minerva in kelly green, and designating “Village of
Minerva Park” on the left side of the flag in kelly green lettering.
(Ord. 7-84, passed 6-11-1984; Ord. 05-2021, passed 9-28-2021)
§ 204.02 OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER.
   (a)   The Villager, as published monthly by the Minerva Park Community
Association, is adopted and designated as the “official newspaper” of the
Village of Minerva Park, Franklin County, to provide notice when the law
requires a municipality to publish notice in a newspaper of general circulation
under the authority of R.C. § 7.12 and State ex. rel. Ellis v. Umer, 127 Ohio
St. 84 (1933).
   (b)   The Village Mayor, Fiscal Officer, and Solicitor are authorized to
take further actions consistent with this section that are needed to carry out
the intentions of this resolution for the designation of The Villager as the
“official newspaper” of the Village of Minerva Park.
(Res. 2007-05, passed 2-11-2007)
§ 204.03 PUBLIC RECORDS POLICY.
   (a)   The Council of the Village of Minerva Park hereby adopts a public
records policy for any records requests made of the village.
   (b)   The public records policy for the Village of Minerva Park is attached
as Exhibit A and is made a part of this code of ordinances as if fully
rewritten herein.
(Res. 2008-38, passed 12-8-2008)
§ 204.04 SYMBOLS.
   Any substantive change to logos or symbols of the village including, but not
limited to, the flag or symbols on police symbols or maintenance vehicles must
be sponsored by either the Mayor, or a member of Council. The proposed changes
shall then be subject to a two-week period of public review and comment prior
to Council consideration of a resolution adopting the changes. Final approval
of the resolution shall be by majority vote of Council. This section does not
apply to job positions or titles within the village.
(Ord. 05-2021, passed 9-28-2021)
CHAPTER 206: PUBLIC MEETINGS
Section
206.01   Adoption of rules.
206.02   Definitions.
206.03   Notice of regular and organizational meetings.
206.04   Notice of special meetings.
206.05   Notice to news media of special meetings.
206.06   Notification of discussion of specific types of public business.
206.07   General provisions.
Statutory reference:
   Public meetings, see R.C. § 121.22
§ 206.01 ADOPTION OF RULES.
   The following rules are hereby adopted pursuant to R.C. § 121.22(F) for
notification of the public and news media of the time and place of meetings of
Council, boards and other bodies of the municipality.
§ 206.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (a)   “Clerk.” The Municipal Clerk; or, if there is no such officer, the
Clerk-Treasurer; or, if there is no such officer, the Clerk of Council.
   (b)   “Day.” A calendar day.
   (c)   “Meeting.” Any prearranged discussion of the public business of a
municipal body by a majority of the members of the municipal body.
   (d)   “Municipal body.” Any legislative authority or board, commission,
committee, agency, authority or similar decision-making body of the
municipality.
   (e)   “Oral notification.” Notification given orally either in person or by
telephone, directly to the person for whom the notification is intended, or by
leaving an oral message for the person at the address, or if by telephone at
the telephone number, of the person as shown on the records kept by the Fiscal
Officer under this chapter.
   (f)   “Post.” To post in an area accessible to the public during the usual
business hours at the office of the Fiscal Officer and in the lobby of the
Municipal Building.
   (g)   “Special meeting.” A meeting which is neither a regular meeting nor an
adjournment of a regular (or special) meeting to another time or day to
consider items specifically stated on the original agenda of the regular (or
special) meeting.
   (h)   “Written notification.” Notification in writing mailed, telegraphed or
delivered to the address of the person for whom the notification is intended,
as shown on the records kept by the Fiscal Officer under this chapter, or in
any way delivered to the person. If mailed, the notification shall be mailed by
first-class mail, deposited in a U.S. Postal Service mailbox not later than the
second day preceding the day of the meeting to which the notification refers,
provided that at least one regular mail delivery day falls between the day of
mailing and the day of the meeting.
§ 206.03 NOTICE OF REGULAR AND ORGANIZATIONAL MEETINGS.
   (a)   The Fiscal Officer shall post a statement of the time and place of
regular meetings of each municipal body for each calendar year not later than
the second day preceding the day of the first regular meeting (other than the
organizational meeting) of the calendar year of that municipal body. The Fiscal
Officer shall check at reasonable intervals to ensure that the statement
remains so posted during the calendar year. If, at any time during the calendar
year, the time or place of regular meetings, or of any regular meeting, is
changed on a permanent or temporary basis, a statement of the time and place of
the changed regular meetings shall be so posted by the Fiscal Officer at least
24 hours before the time of the first changed regular meeting.
   (b)   The Fiscal Officer shall post a statement of the time and place of any
organizational meeting of a municipal body at least 24 hours before the time of
the organizational meeting.
   (c)   Upon the adjournment of any regular or special meeting to another day,
the Fiscal Officer shall promptly post notice of the time and place of the
adjourned meeting.
§ 206.04 NOTICE OF SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (a)   Except in the case of a special meeting provided for in §
206.05(e), the Fiscal Officer shall, not later than 24 hours before the time of
a special meeting of a municipal body, post a statement of the time, place and
purpose of the special meeting.
   (b)   The statement required under division (a) of this section, and the
notifications required under §
206.05, shall state such specific or general purpose then known to the Fiscal
Officer to be intended to be considered at the special meeting and may state,
as an additional general purpose, that any other business as may properly come
before the municipal body at the meeting may be considered and acted upon.
§ 206.05 NOTICE TO NEWS MEDIA OF SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (a)   Any news media organization that wishes to be given advance
notification of special meetings of a municipal body shall file with the Fiscal
Officer a written request therefor.
   (b)   Except in the event of an emergency requiring immediate official
action as provided for in division (e) of this section, a special meeting shall
not be held unless at least 24 hours’ advance notice of the time, place and
purposes of the special meeting is given to the news media that have requested
the advance notification in accordance with division (c) of this section.
   (c)   (1)   News media requests for such advance notification of special
meetings shall specify the following:
         A.   The municipal body that is the subject of the request;
         B.   The name of the medium;
         C.   The name and address of the person to whom written notifications
to the medium may be mailed, telegraphed or delivered; and
         D.   The names, addresses and telephone numbers (including addresses
and telephone numbers at which notification may be given either during or
outside of business hours) of at least two persons to either one of whom oral
notifications to the medium may be given.
      (2)   The request shall be effective for one year from the date of filing
with the Fiscal Officer or until the Fiscal Officer receives written notice
from the medium canceling or modifying the request, whichever is earlier. Each
requesting news medium shall be informed of the period of effectiveness at the
time it files its request. The request may be modified or extended only by
filing a completely new request with the Fiscal Officer. A request shall not be
deemed to be made unless it is complete, in all respects, and the request may
be conclusively relied on by the municipality, the municipal body that is the
subject of the request and the Fiscal Officer.
   (d)   The Fiscal Officer shall give the oral notification or written
notification, or both, as the Fiscal Officer determines, to the news media that
have requested the advance notification, in accordance with division (c) of
this section, of the time, place and purposes of each special meeting, at least
24 hours prior to the time of the special meeting.
   (e)   In the event of an emergency requiring immediate official action, a
special meeting may be held without giving 24 hours’ advance notification
thereof to the requesting news media. The persons calling the meeting, or any
one or more of the persons or the Fiscal Officer on their behalf, shall
immediately give oral notification or written notification, or both, as the
person giving the notification determines, of the time, place and purposes of
the special meeting, to such news media that have requested the advance
notification in accordance with division (c) of this section. The minutes or
the call, or both, of any such special meeting shall state the general nature
of the emergency requiring immediate official action.
§ 206.06 NOTIFICATION OF DISCUSSION OF SPECIFIC TYPES OF PUBLIC BUSINESS.
   (a)   Any person, upon written request and as provided for in this chapter,
may obtain reasonable advance notification of all meetings at which any
specific type of public business is scheduled to be discussed.
   (b)   The person may file a written request with the Fiscal Officer
specifying: the person’s name, the address(es) and telephone number(s) at or
through which the person can be reached during and outside of business hours;
the specific type of public business the discussion of which the person is
requesting advance notification of; the municipal body that is the subject of
the request; and the number of calendar months (not to exceed three) which the
request covers. The request may be canceled by request from the person to the
Fiscal Officer.
   (c)   Each written request must be accompanied by cash, or a check or money
order payable to the municipality, in the amount of $10 for each month covered
by the request, which amount has been determined by Council to represent a
reasonable fee to cover costs of providing the advance notification.
   (d)   The Fiscal Officer shall, if possible, give the advance notification
under this section in writing. If the written notification cannot be given or
has not been given, the Fiscal Officer shall give oral notification.
§ 206.07 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (a)   Any notification provided in this chapter to be given by the Fiscal
Officer may be given by any person acting on behalf of or under the authority
of the Fiscal Officer.
   (b)   A reasonable attempt at notification shall constitute notification in
compliance with this chapter.
   (c)   A certificate by the Fiscal Officer as to compliance with this chapter
shall be conclusive upon the municipality and the municipal body involved.
   (d)   The Fiscal Officer shall maintain a record of the date and manner, and
the time, if pertinent under this chapter, of all actions taken with regard to
notices and notifications under this chapter.
   (e)   To better ensure compliance with this chapter as to notice and
notification, it shall be the responsibility of the Chairperson or Secretary of
a municipal body other than Council, or the person calling the meetings, to
timely advise the Fiscal Officer of future meetings, and of the subject matters
to be discussed thereat, of the municipal body.
CHAPTER 208: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
EDITOR’S NOTE: Resolution 1035-88, passed August 30, 1988, of the Board of
County Commissioners of Franklin County, Ohio, authorized a written agreement
with other political subdivisions, including the Village of Minerva Park, to
establish a County-Wide Emergency Management Agency, pursuant to R.C. Ch. 5915,
and to continue to provide financial support and funding pursuant to the
county-wide agreement. Copies of this resolution and of the agreement may be
obtained, at cost, from the Fiscal Officer.
   There are no sections in Chapter 208. This chapter has been established to
provide a place for cross- references and any future legislation.
Cross-reference:
   Misconduct at emergencies, see §
648.06
   Traffic direction during emergencies, see §
404.08
Statutory reference:
   Emergency management, see R.C. Ch. 5502
   Emergency planning, see R.C. Ch. 3750
TITLE FOUR: LEGISLATION
CHAPTER 220: COUNCIL
Section
220.01   Expense allowance.
Cross-reference:
   Traffic control powers, see §
406.07
Statutory reference:
   Composition and term, see R.C. § 731.09
   General powers, see R.C. §§ 715.03, 731.47
   Meetings, see R.C. §§ 731.44, 731.46
   Misconduct, see R.C. §§ 733.72 et seq.
   President pro tempore, see R.C. §§ 731.10 et seq., 733.25
   Qualifications, see R.C. §§ 731.12, 731.44
   Rules and journal, see R.C. § 731.45
   Vacancy, see R.C. § 731.43
§ 220.01 EXPENSE ALLOWANCE.  
   (a)   The annual pay of the Council members of the Village of Minerva Park,
Franklin County, State of Ohio shall be $600 a year, to be paid on a monthly
basis in the amount of $50.
   (b)   This section shall be in effect for all newly elected Council members
or newly appointed Council members of the Village of Minerva Park who assume
office on or after January 1, 2004.
(Ord. 02-2003, passed 7-14-2003; Ord. 10-2013, passed 12-9-2013)
CHAPTER 222: ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
Section
222.01   Posting places.
222.02   Posting period.
222.03   Certificate of posting.
Cross reference:
   Codified ordinances, see
Ch. 202
Statutory reference:
   Adoption and style, see R.C. §§ 715.03, 731.17 et seq.
   Annexation, see R.C. §§ 709.23 et seq.
   Assessments, see R.C.§§ 727.25 et seq., 729.09, 729.11
   Improvements, see R.C. §§ 727.09, 727.12, 727.23
§ 222.01 POSTING PLACES.
   The following five locations shall be designated as official public places
for posting copies of ordinances and resolutions, or summaries of ordinances
and resolutions, and for the publication of all statements, orders,
proclamations, notices and reports required by law or ordinance to be
published:
   (a)   Inside the Minerva Park Community Building - posted on the bulletin
board located directly inside the door;
   (b)   Inside the Minerva Park Community Building - posted on the glass
windows beside the front door facing outward so as to be readable from the
outside of the building;
   (c)   On the Minerva Park sign board located directly in front of the
Minerva Park Community Building;
   (d)   On the Minerva Park sign board at the Minerva Park Swim Club facing
the parking lot; and
   (e)   On the Minerva Park sign board located at the playground facing
Maplewood Drive.
(Ord. 4-99, passed 5-10-1999)
§ 222.02 POSTING PERIOD.
   All ordinances, resolutions, statements, orders, proclamations, notices and
reports required to be posted shall be posted for a period of not less than 15
days prior to the taking effect thereof, in the places designated in §
222.01.
(Ord. 2-94, passed 7-11-1994)
§ 222.03 CERTIFICATE OF POSTING.
   Where publication is by posting, the Fiscal Officer shall make a certificate
as to such posting and as to the times when and the places where posting was
done, in the manner provided in R.C. § 731.24.
(Ord. 2-94, passed 7-11-1994)
TITLE SIX: ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 230: MAYOR
Section
230.01   Health, medical and dental insurance.
Cross-reference:
   Mayor’s Court, see
Ch. 290
Statutory reference:
   Acting Mayor, see R.C. §§ 731.10 et seq., 733.25
   Disposition of fines and other moneys, see R.C. § 733.40
   Executive power in villages, see R.C. §§ 733.23 et seq.
§ 230.01 HEALTH, MEDICAL AND DENTAL INSURANCE.
   (a)   Complete medical, dental and vision health insurance benefits shall be
provided for the Mayor of the village during his or her term in office and
shall include his or her spouse and dependent children as defined by the health
insurance provider.
   (b)   Complete medical, dental and vision health insurance benefits are
provided by the village provided that similar insurance is not already provided
to the Mayor or the Mayor’s spouse by any other organization, company or
agency, such as, but not limited to: retirement related health care benefits;
veteran health care benefits; or benefits provided by an employer other than
the village of the Mayor or Mayor’s spouse.
   (c)   These medical, dental and vision health insurance benefits are
effective retroactively to July 26, 1991 in order to ratify the past actions of
the Councils and the Fiscal Officer of the village.
   (d)   Changes in scope to the medical, dental and vision health insurance
benefits shall not be made during a Mayor’s term in office except as necessary
due to changes in administering these benefits through insurance providers and/
or consortiums providing medical, dental and vision health insurance benefits.
Any changes cannot conflict with the intention of this legislation which is to
provide complete medical, dental and vision health insurance benefits to the
Mayor and his or her spouse and dependent children.
(Ord. 09-2004, passed 11-8-2004)
CHAPTER 232: DIRECTOR OF LAW
EDITOR’S NOTE: The village contracts for the services of an attorney, or firm
of attorneys, designated the Director of Law. Copies of the latest relevant
legislation may be obtained, at cost, from the Fiscal Officer.
   There are no sections in Chapter 232. This chapter has been established to
provide a place for cross- references and any future legislation.
Statutory reference:
   Approval of leases, see R.C. § 715.011
   Attorneys, see R.C. Ch. 4705
   Legal counsel, see R.C. § 733.48
   Preparation of bonds, see R.C. § 733.70
CHAPTER 234: FISCAL OFFICER
Section
234.01   Clerk-Treasurer position abolished.
234.02   Village Fiscal Officer position created.
234.03   Qualifications.
234.04   Duties.
234.05   Residence requirement.
234.06   Appointment/removal.
234.07   Mayor and Law Director to take further actions.
§ 234.01 CLERK -TREASURER POSITION ABOLISHED.
   Due to the vacancy of the Clerk-Treasurer position, the combined elected
position of Clerk- Treasurer is hereby abolished.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 234.02 VILLAGE FISCAL OFFICER POSITION CREATED.
   The appointed position of Village Fiscal Officer is hereby created upon the
passage of this chapter.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 234.03 QUALIFICATIONS.
   The qualifications for this position shall be at least a bachelor’s degree
in finance, public administration, business, and/or a related degree with a
masters degree preferred within the above disciplines. Additionally, the
appointee shall have two years of public finance experience and/or experience
commensurate with the proposed position.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 234.04 DUTIES.
   (a)   The Fiscal Officer appointed pursuant to this chapter shall exercise
the powers and perform the duties and functions now or hereafter given to
Fiscal Officers, City Auditors, Clerks and Treasurers under the general laws of
Ohio. The Fiscal Officer shall have other powers, duties and functions as set
forth in ordinances or resolutions of this Council.
   (b)   The Fiscal Officer shall:
      (1)   Keep the financial records of the village, establish the accounting
system, payroll, data processing, claims and disbursements, receipts and bill
payments, investments of municipal funds, debt management, issuance of
insurance programs and financial records;
      (2)   Supervise personnel assigned to the Fiscal Officer;
      (3)   Prepare reports used by the offices, departments, divisions,
bureaus, boards and commissions of the village;
      (4)   Assist the Mayor and Village Administrator in the preparation and
submission of appropriation measures, estimates, budgets, capital programs and
other financial matters;
      (5)   Provide full and complete information concerning the financial
affairs and status of the village as requested by the Mayor, Council and
Village Administrator; and
      (6)   Provide full and complete information and assistance concerning the
finances or accounting systems or records of any office, department, division,
bureau, board or commission of the village as requested by the Mayor, Council
and Village Administrator.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 234.05 RESIDENCE REQUIREMENT.
   The Fiscal Officer need not be an elector of the village or reside in the
village.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 234.06 APPOINTMENT/REMOVAL.
   The Fiscal Officer shall be appointed and removed in accordance with
procedures set forth in the Ohio Revised Code.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 234.07 MAYOR AND LAW DIRECTOR TO TAKE FURTHER ACTIONS.
   The Village Mayor and Law Director are authorized to take further actions
consistent with this chapter that are necessary to carry out the intentions of
this chapter for the ongoing functioning of the Fiscal Officer’s position.
(Ord. 4-2011, passed 6-13-2011)
CHAPTER 236: STREET COMMISSIONER
Section
236.01   Establishment of position.
236.02   Appointment; term; vacancy; residency requirement.
236.03   Duties.
Cross-reference:
   Streets generally, see Ch. 1020
Statutory reference:
   Appointment, see R.C. § 735.31
   Assessments, see R.C. Ch. 727, Ch. 729
   Assistants, see R.C. § 735.33
   Duties, see R.C. § 735.32
   Streets and public grounds, see R.C. Ch. 723
§ 236.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF POSITION.
   Under the provisions of R.C. § 735.31, the position of Street Commissioner
is hereby established in and for the village.
(Ord. 5-85, passed 3-11-1985)
§ 236.02 APPOINTMENT; TERM; VACANCY; RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT.
   The Street Commissioner shall be appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by
Council for a term of one year. A vacancy occurring in the office of the Street
Commissioner shall be filled by the Mayor for the unexpired term. The Street
Commissioner need not be a resident of the village at the time of appointment
but must become a resident within six months, unless such requirement is waived
by Council by ordinance.
(Ord. 5-85, passed 3-11-1985)
§ 236.03 DUTIES.
   Under the direction of Council, the Street Commissioner shall be responsible
for supervising the improvement and maintenance of those areas delineated in
R.C. 735.32, and shall perform such other duties, consistent with the nature of
the office, as Council requires.
(Ord. 5-85, passed 3-11-1985)
CHAPTER 238: MAINTENANCE SUPERVISOR
Section
238.01   Establishment of position; duties.
Cross-reference:
   Employee handbook, see
Ch. 250
§ 238.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF POSITION; DUTIES.
   The position of Maintenance Supervisor is hereby established in and for the
village. The Maintenance Supervisor shall perform such duties as are prescribed
and directed by the Mayor.
CHAPTER 240: VILLAGE ENGINEER
EDITOR’S NOTE: The village contracts for the services of an engineer, or firm
of engineers, designated the Village Engineer. Copies of the latest relevant
legislation may be obtained, at cost, from the Fiscal Officer.
   There are no sections in Chapter 240. This chapter has been established to
provide a place for cross- references and any future legislation.
Cross-reference:
   Conflict of interest, see §
1212.04
   Review of final plats, see § 1216.04
Statutory reference:
   Auditing accounts, see R.C. §§ 733.12 et seq.
   Books and accounts, see R.C. § 733.28
   Merger of offices of Clerk and Treasurer, see R.C. § 733.261
   Powers and duties, see R.C. § 733.27
CHAPTER 242: POLICE DEPARTMENT
EDITOR’S NOTE: The village enters into mutual aid agreements from time to time
with other municipalities. Copies of the latest relevant legislation, and of
such agreements, may be obtained, at cost, from the Fiscal Officer.
Section
242.01   Establishment; composition.
242.02   Appointment, term and removal of Chief.
242.03   Appointment, suspension and removal of officers.
242.04   Supervision and control of Chief.
242.05   General powers and duties of Chief and officers.
242.06   Establishment of position of part-time officer; appointment.
242.07   Establishment of position of volunteer officer; appointment; work
requirements.
242.08   Compensation.
242.09   Overtime.
242.10   Uniforms.
242.11   Health-medical evaluation.
242.12   Sick leave.
242.13   Residency requirement of Chief.
242.14   Adoption of Procedures Manual.
242.15   Auxiliary officers.
Cross-reference:
   Resisting an officer, see §
404.02
   Use of force to suppress riot, see §
648.03
Statutory reference:
   Police Pension and Disability Fund, see R.C. Ch. 742
   Recovered property and disposition, see R.C. §§ 737.29 et seq., 4513.60 et
seq.
§ 242.01 ESTABLISHMENT; COMPOSITION.
   There is hereby established a Police Department in and for the village,
which shall consist of a Chief of Police and as many part-time and full-time
employees as Council may designate from time to time.
(Ord. 10-80, passed 6-9-1980)
§ 242.02 APPOINTMENT, TERM AND REMOVAL OF CHIEF.
   (a)   The Chief of Police shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice
and consent of Council in accordance with R.C. §§ 737.15 and 737.17.
   (b)   The Chief of Police shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor and may
be removed by the Mayor at any time thereafter with the consent of Council in
accordance with R.C. §§ 737.17 and 737.171.
(Ord. 10-80, passed 6-9-1980)
§ 242.03 APPOINTMENT, SUSPENSION AND REMOVAL OF OFFICERS.
   (a)   Police officers, sometimes referred to as patrol officers, shall be
appointed by the Mayor as provided in R.C. § 737.16. The Mayor is hereby
authorized to appoint a police officer to be a full-time police officer. Such
full-time police officer shall be entitled to all the benefits of full-time
personnel.
   (b)   Police officers shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor and may be
suspended or removed from office in accordance with R.C. § 737.19.
(Ord. 10-80, passed 6-9-1980; Ord. 2-95, passed 3-13-1995)
§ 242.04 SUPERVISION AND CONTROL OF CHIEF.
   The Mayor shall be the immediate supervisor of the Chief of Police, and all
policies, directives and orders from the village government to the Chief of
Police shall be made by or transmitted through the Mayor. The Chief of Police
shall report directly to the Mayor or his or her designated representative and
not to Council, to individual members thereof or to any committee or
commission.
(Ord. 10-80, passed 6-9-1980)
§ 242.05 GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES OF CHIEF AND OFFICERS.
   (a)   The Chief of Police shall direct the administration and operation of
the Police Department, and in addition to policies transmitted to him or her by
the Mayor, he or she shall establish such other policies, directions, rules and
regulations for the administration and operation of the Department as he or she
sees fit. The Chief of Police shall have such powers and duties as are
consistent with R.C. §§ 737.18 and 737.19 and other provisions of the Ohio
Revised Code.
   (b)   Police officers shall have the powers conferred by law upon police
officers in all villages of the state and such powers, not inconsistent with
the nature of their office, as are conferred by ordinance.
(Ord. 10-80, passed 6-9-1980)
§ 242.06 ESTABLISHMENT OF POSITION OF PART-TIME OFFICER; APPOINTMENT.
   (a)   All persons formerly holding the position of auxiliary police officer
in the Police Department shall be eligible for appointment to the hereby
established position of part-time police officer in the Police Department, upon
their application for such appointment and approval by the Mayor, subject to
the satisfaction of such qualifications as the Mayor and Council may ordain.
   (b)   Any other person satisfying the qualifications for appointment to the
position of part-time police officer may apply for such appointment, subject to
the approval of the Mayor.
§ 242.07 ESTABLISHMENT OF POSITION OF VOLUNTEER OFFICER; APPOINTMENT; WORK
REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   There is hereby established the position of volunteer police officer
in the Police Department. Appointees to such positions shall serve at such
times as are determined to be necessary by the Mayor. Persons desiring such
appointments shall file an application to be approved by the Mayor. All
applicants for such positions must satisfy, or be able to satisfy, such
qualifications as the Mayor and Council shall ordain.
   (b)   Volunteer police officers shall not receive compensation for their
services, other than reasonable reimbursement of their costs in procuring any
necessary uniforms and attendant equipment as may be prescribed by the Mayor
and Council, and other than as set forth in division (c) hereof.
   (c)   Volunteer police officers shall be required to volunteer a minimum of
16 hours per month in addition to the work hours established by the Police
Chief. If personal circumstances make the volunteer hours impractical for any
given month, in whole or in part, the unworked required volunteer hours may be
carried over to the next month at the discretion of the Police Chief. Failure
to work the required volunteer hours, except as set forth herein, shall be
cause for removal. For work hours established by the Police Chief, volunteer
police officers shall be compensated on an hourly basis as are part-time
officers.
(Ord. 1-86, passed 3-10-1986; Ord. 11-92, passed 9-14-1992)
§ 242.08 COMPENSATION.
   Compensation for the Chief of Police and police officers shall be
established by Council, by ordinance or resolution, as required.
(Ord. 10-80, passed 6-9-1980)
§ 242.09 OVERTIME.
   Total overtime hours for each police officer shall not exceed 20 hours per
month, unless authorized by the Mayor.
(Ord. 1-82, passed 3-8-1982)
§ 242.10 UNIFORMS.
   (a)   All personnel of the Police Department shall be entitled to new and
replacement uniforms as follows.
      (1)   Full-time officers, when first hired, shall be provided with the
following: three long sleeved shirts, three short sleeved shirts, two pairs of
pants, two clip-on ties, one pair of shoes, two summer jackets, two winter
jackets, one campaign hat, one hat strip, one stringed acorns, one tie clip,
four removable shirt buttons, one hat badge, one breast badge, and uniform
patches. Initially, full-time officers shall be provided with jackets
appropriate for the season in which they are hired; off-season jackets shall be
provided closer to the season when they will be required.
      (2)   Part-time and volunteer officers, when first hired, shall be
provided with the following: two long sleeved shirts, two short sleeved shirts,
one pair of pants, one clip-on tie, one pair of shoes, one summer jacket, one
winter jacket, one campaign hat, one hat strip, one stringed acorns, one tie
clip, four removable shirt buttons, one hat badge, one breast badge, and
uniform patches. Part-time and volunteer officers shall be provided with a
jacket appropriate for the season in which they are hired; off-season jackets
can be provided closer to the season when they will be required.
      (3)   Given the equipment an individual officer may be providing for
himself or herself, one gun belt, one belt buckle, four belt keepers, one
ammunition pouch, one handcuff pouch, one pair of handcuffs, and one gun
holster, shall be provided at the discretion of the Chief of Police. One duty
weapon may be provided at the discretion of the Chief of Police with the advice
and consent of Council.
      (4)   Uniform items torn or mutilated in the line of duty or rendered
unserviceable through fair and reasonable wear and tear shall be replaced by
the village only upon written authorization of the Chief of Police.
      (5)   All uniform purchases, whether initial or replacement, must be
authorized in writing by the Chief of Police in advance of purchase. In an
emergency, should the Chief of Police be unavailable, the Mayor shall
authorize, in writing, the purchase of uniform items.
      (6)   All uniforms, leather and weapons purchase by the village are the
property of the village and must be returned to the village immediately when
employment as an officer with the village is terminated.
      (7)   The nature, style and color of all uniforms and attendant equipment
of all full-time, part- time and auxiliary personnel of the Police Department
shall be prescribed by the Mayor and Council.
   (b)   Officers receiving cash allowances for 1996 under this section shall
contribute those dollars first to provide and replace uniforms before
requesting village provided or replaced uniforms. The Chief of Police will
determine when the allowance has been used and it is now the responsibility of
the village to provide or replace uniforms to those officers.
   (c)   It is up to the discretion of the Chief of Police to phase in
purchases of any additional uniforms as provided for by this section; however,
all officers should be uniformed in compliance with this section by October 15,
1996.
(Ord. 2-96, passed 5-13-1996)
§ 242.11 HEALTH-MEDICAL EVALUATION.
   (a)   A comprehensive health-medical check-up and evaluation shall be
conducted before any police officer is accepted for police duties and again
every two years for all police officers. The evaluation shall be conducted at
the designated testing facility determined by the Mayor and shall consist of a
complete medical examination for fitness for police duty assignment to be
conducted by the designated physician.
   (b)   Examination shall consist of criteria which are set forth in Exhibit A
attached to original Ordinance 13-92, passed February 8, 1993, and made a part
of this section by reference as if codified in full herein. Said criteria shall
be the minimum standards to be applied by the designated physician.
   (c)   The designated physician shall provide the Chief of Police with a copy
of the evaluation of the applicant/police officer involved.
   (d)   The applicant/police officer shall be provided with a copy of the
results of said examination. It will be the applicant’s/police officer’s
responsibility for any further evaluation and treatment through his or her own
personal physician and to bring himself or herself up to minimum standards
wherever any substandard condition exists that can be remedied and/or
corrected.
(Ord. 13-92, passed 2-8-1993)
§ 242.12 SICK LEAVE.
   All unused sick leave accumulated during the calendar year by any nonelected
full-time employee of the Police Department shall be paid to said employee by
the end of January of the following year.
(Ord. 10-94, passed 11-14-1994)
§ 242.13 RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT OF CHIEF.
   The Chief of Police shall not be required to become a resident of the
village.
(Ord. 156, passed 4-12-1971)
§ 242.14 ADOPTION OF PROCEDURES MANUAL.
   (a)   The Minerva Park Police Policy and Procedure Manual is hereby adopted
by the Village of Minerva Park and shall govern departmental operations.
   (b)   The Minerva Park Police Policy and Procedure Manual, and all
amendments thereof, may be examined at the village offices and copies obtain
pursuant to the public records policy of the Village of Minerva Park.
(Ord. 15-2014, passed 4-13-2015)
§ 242.15 AUXILIARY OFFICERS.
   (a)   Auxiliary Police Unit. There is created within the Police Department
an Auxiliary Police Unit, the members of which shall be appointed by the Mayor
per R.C. § 737.161. All applicants for such positions must satisfy, or be able
to satisfy, such qualifications as the Mayor and Council shall ordain.
   (b)   Sworn Auxiliary Police Officers. All Auxiliary Police officers must be
sworn in by the Mayor.
   (c)   Period of Service. Auxiliary Police Officers shall serve so long as
the Mayor may direct, or until a resignation submitted by any such member is
accepted by the Mayor.
   (d)   Volunteer Status of Auxiliary Police Officers. Auxiliary Police
Officers serve as volunteers and are not employees of the Village of Minerva
Park. Auxiliary Police Officers do not serve probationary periods and have no
statutory right to continued employment. As a result, such officers serve at
the Mayor’s pleasure and are terminable at will.
   (e)   Compensation. Auxiliary Police Officers shall not receive any
compensation or benefits for their services, other than reasonable
reimbursement of their costs in procuring any necessary uniforms and attendant
equipment as may be prescribed by the Mayor and Council.
   (f)   Scheduled Hours. Auxiliary Police Officers shall serve at such times
as are determined to be necessary and scheduled by the Chief of Police.
Auxiliary Police Officers shall be required to volunteer a minimum of 16 hours
per month as scheduled by the Chief of Police. Failure to work the required
volunteer hours or failure to appear for scheduled volunteer hours shall be
cause for removal.
   (g)   Command of Unit. The Chief of Police or his or her designee shall be
the commanding officer and shall have control over the assignment, training,
stationing and direction of all members of the Auxiliary Police Unit. The
Auxiliary Police Unit shall have all police powers, but shall perform only such
police duties as are assigned to them by the Chief of Police or his or her
designee whose primary duties are to preserve the peace, protect life and
property and enforce the laws of the State of Ohio and the ordinances of the
Village of Minerva Park. Auxiliary officers shall only act in such capacity
while on active duty and shall obey the chain of command of the Police
Department.
   (h)   Rules and Regulations. The Chief of Police, under the direction of the
Mayor, shall prescribe the rules and regulations for the administration,
conduct and control of the Auxiliary Police Unit.
   (i)   Uniforms. The Chief of Police shall determine what type of uniform or
part thereof shall be worn by members of the Auxiliary Police Unit. Auxiliary
Police Officers shall be issued one uniform by the Village of Minerva Park,
which must be returned at the end of each officer’s service. No Auxiliary
Police Officer shall appear in public in uniform unless scheduled or called to
duty by the Chief of Police or officer in charge of the Police Department.
   (j)   Firearms. Auxiliary Police Officers must provide their own duty
firearm as outlined in the Police Department Policies and Procedures and must
be approved by the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 07-2016, passed 6-27-2016)
CHAPTER 244: FIRE DEPARTMENT AND FIRE PROTECTION
Section
244.01   Establishment and composition.
244.02   Appointment, term and removal of chief.
244.03   Appointment, term and removal of assistant chief.
244.04   Supervision and control of the chief.
244.05   Supervision and control of the assistant chief.
244.06   General powers and duties of chief and officers.
244.07   Establishment of position of volunteer members and suspension.
244.08   Establishment of position of part-time paid paramedic, appointment and
suspension.
244.09   Compensation.
244.10   Residency requirement of the chief.
244.11   Miscellaneous.
244.12   Adoption of official rules and procedures manual.
§ 244.01 ESTABLISHMENT AND COMPOSITION.
   There is hereby established a Fire Department to be hereafter known as the
Minerva Park Volunteer Fire Department, the object of which shall be the
prevention of fire and the protection of life and property for the residents of
the Village of Minerva Park, Blendon Township, Franklin County, State of Ohio.
The Department will consist of a Fire Chief and as many volunteer and part-time
positions as the Village Council may deem necessary for the effective operation
of the Department.
(Ord. 11-2007, passed 7-9-2007)
§ 244.02 APPOINTMENT, TERM AND REMOVAL OF CHIEF.
   (a)   The Chief shall be appointed by the Mayor with the consent of Council
under R.C. § 505.38; the tenure of the office shall be subject to the
provisions of R.C. §§ 733.35 to 733.39.
   (b)   The Chief shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor and may be removed
by the Mayor at any time thereafter with the consent of Council in accordance
with R.C. §§ 737.17 and 737.171.
(Ord. 11-2007, passed 7-9-2007)
§ 244.03 APPOINTMENT, TERM AND REMOVAL OF ASSISTANT CHIEF.
   (a)   The Assistant Chief shall be appointed by the Mayor with the consent
of Council under R.C. § 505.38; the tenure of the office shall be subject to
the provisions of R.C. §§ 733.35 to 733.39.
   (b)   The Assistant Chief shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor and may
be removed by the Mayor at any time thereafter with the consent of Council in
accordance with R.C. §§ 737.17 and 737.171.
(Ord. 11-2007, passed 7-9-2007)
§ 244.04 SUPERVISION AND CONTROL OF THE CHIEF.
   The Mayor shall be the immediate supervisor of the Fire Chief, and all
policies, directives and orders from the village government to the Fire Chief
shall be made by or transmitted through the Mayor. The Fire Chief shall report
directly to the Mayor or his or her designated representative and not to
Council, to individual members thereof or to any committee or commission. The
Chief shall be held accountable to the Mayor and shall make written and verbal
reports thereto as the Mayor may require. All other Department and Company
officers shall be accountable to the Chief.
(Ord. 11-2007, passed 7-9-2007)
§ 244.05 SUPERVISION AND CONTROL OF THE ASSISTANT CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall be the immediate supervisor of the Assistant Chief, and
all policies, directives and orders from the village government to the
Assistant Chief shall be made by or transmitted through the Fire Chief. The
Assistant Chief shall report directly to the Fire Chief. The Assistant Chief
shall be held accountable to the Fire Chief and shall make written and verbal
reports thereto as the Fire Chief may require.
(Ord. 11-2007, passed 7-9-2007)
§ 244.06 GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES OF CHIEF AND OFFICERS.
   The Fire Chief shall direct the administration and operation of the Fire
Department, and in addition to policies transmitted to the Fire Chief by the
Mayor, the Fire Chief shall establish such other policies directions, rules and
regulations for the administration and operation of the Departments as seen
fit. The Fire Chief shall have such powers and duties as are consistent with
R.C. § 737.11 and other provisions of the Ohio Revised Code.
(Ord. 11-2007, passed 7-9-2007)
§ 244.07 ESTABLISHMENT OF POSITION OF VOLUNTEER MEMBERS AND SUSPENSION.
   (a)   The membership of the Department shall consist of such persons as may
be appointed by the Chief, who posses the necessary certifications of EMT-B,
EMT-A and EMT-P, as defined by regulations of the Ohio State Board of EMS.
Determination of suitability for Department membership shall be made by the
Chief.
   (b)   Any volunteer member of the Department may be suspended from the
Department by the Chief at any time that the Chief may deem such action
necessary for the good of the Department. On written request of such member,
the member shall be given a public hearing on the charges brought by the Chief.
All such actions shall be reported to the Mayor on a timely basis and to the
Council at their next regularly-scheduled meeting.
(Ord. 11-2007, passed 7-9-2007)
§ 244.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF POSITION OF PART-TIME PAID PARAMEDIC, APPOINTMENT AND
SUSPENSION.
   (a)   All persons formerly holding the position of volunteer paramedic in
the Fire Department shall be eligible for appointment to the hereby established
position of part-time paramedic in the Fire Department upon their application
for such appointment and approval by the Mayor and Chief, subject to the
satisfaction of such qualifications as the Mayor and Council may ordain.
   (b)   Any other person satisfying the qualification for appointment to the
position of part-time paramedic may apply for such appointment, subject to the
approval of the Mayor and Chief.
   (c)   Any paramedic of the Department may be suspended from the Department
by the Chief at any time that the Chief may deem such action necessary for the
good of the Department. On written request of such member the member shall be
given a public hearing on the charges brought by the Chief. All such actions
shall be reported to the Mayor on a timely basis and to the Council at their
next regularly-scheduled meeting.
(Ord. 11-2007, passed 7-9-2007)
§ 244.09 COMPENSATION.
   Compensation for the part-time paramedics shall be established by Council by
resolution.
(Ord. 11-2007, passed 7-9-2007)
§ 244.10 RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT OF THE CHIEF.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall not be required to become a resident
of the village.
(Ord. 11-2007, passed 7-9-2007)
§ 244.11 MISCELLANEOUS.
   (a)   All motor equipment of the Department shall, in conformance with
existing statutes, have right-of-way over all other traffic when responding to
an alarm.
   (b)   No person shall drive any vehicle over a fire hose, except on specific
orders from the Chief or other officer in charge where hose is used.
   (c)   No person shall park any vehicle or otherwise cause any obstruction to
be placed within 50 feet of the entrance to any fire station or any other place
where fire apparatus is housed, or within ten feet of any fire hydrant or
cistern.
   (d)   No unauthorized person with any vehicle shall follow within 500 feet
of any apparatus belonging to the Department while responding to an alarm, nor
park any vehicle within 300 feet of a fire.
   (e)   No person shall maliciously turn in, or cause to be turned in, a false
alarm.
   (f)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the section
shall be deemed guilty of provisions of this section, shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $35
nor more than $350.
(Ord. 11-2007, passed 7-9-2007)
§ 244.12 ADOPTION OF OFFICIAL RULES AND PROCEDURES MANUAL.
   (a)   The Operational Policies, Job Descriptions and Uniform Regulations of
the Minerva Park Volunteer Fire Department, written and promulgated by the
village, is hereby adopted by reference as the official operational policies,
job descriptions and uniform regulations of the Minerva Park Volunteer Fire
Department as if written in its entirety herein.
   (b)   Such Operational Policies, Job Descriptions and Uniform Regulations of
the Minerva Park Volunteer Fire Department and of all amendments thereof, may
be examined at the village offices and copies thereof may be obtained, at cost,
from the Fiscal Officer.
(Ord. 11-2007, passed 7-9-2007)
CHAPTER 246: SEASONAL EMPLOYEES
Section
246.01   Pool manager.
246.02   Lifeguard.
246.03   Office staff.
§ 246.01 POOL MANAGER.
   (a)   The position of Pool Manager is hereby established as a seasonal work
position in the Village of Minerva Park to support the management, operation
and maintenance of the Minerva Park Swimming Pool.
   (b)   A copy of the Pool Manager job description is marked Exhibit A and is
made a part hereof as if fully rewritten herein. This description includes
duties, responsibilities, qualifications and approximate dates of employment
for the Pool Manager position.
   (c)   The Village Mayor, Fiscal Officer and Solicitor are authorized to take
further actions consistent with this section that are needed to carry out the
intentions of this section for the management, operation and maintenance of the
Minerva Park Swimming Pool.
(Ord. 5-2007, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 246.02 LIFEGUARD.
   (a)   The position of Lifeguard is hereby established as a seasonal work
position in the Village of Minerva Park to support the management, operation
and maintenance of the Minerva Park Swimming Pool.
   (b)   A copy of the Lifeguard job description is marked Exhibit A and is
made a part hereof as if fully rewritten herein. This description includes
duties, responsibilities, qualifications and approximate dates of employment
for the Lifeguard position.
   (c)   The Village Mayor, Fiscal Officer and Law Director are authorized to
take further actions consistent with this section that are needed to carry out
the intentions of this section for the management, operation, and maintenance
of the Minerva Park Swimming Pool.
(Ord. 7-2007, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 246.03 OFFICE STAFF.
   (a)   The position of Office Staff is hereby established as a seasonal work
position in the Village of Minerva Park to support the management, operation
and maintenance of the Minerva Park Swimming Pool.
   (b)   A copy of the Office Staff Job Description is marked Exhibit A and is
made a part hereof as if fully rewritten herein. This description includes
duties, responsibilities, qualifications and approximate dates of employment
for the Office Staff position.
   (c)   The Village Mayor, Fiscal Officer and Law Director are authorized to
take further actions consistent with this section that are needed to carry out
the intentions of this section for the management, operation and maintenance of
the Minerva Park Swimming Pool.
(Ord. 8-2007, passed 5-7-2007)
CHAPTER 248: DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE PROGRAM
Section
248.01   Established.
248.02   Scope of policy.
248.03   Program protections.
248.04   Definitions.
248.05   Prohibited conduct.
248.06   Drug and alcohol testing.
248.07   Specimen collection procedure.
248.08   Methods of testing.
248.09   Reporting of test results.
248.10   Positive test results and termination notices.
248.11   Employee assistance.
§ 248.01 ESTABLISHED.
   A drug-free workplace program be established in the Village of Minerva Park,
Franklin County, to ensure a safe working environment for its employees/
volunteers and a safe environment for the residents of the village serviced by
said employees and/or volunteers.
(Ord. 02-2005, passed 5-9-2005)
§ 248.02 SCOPE OF POLICY.
   (a)   The village wants to provide a safe workplace for all of its employees
by deterring substance use that can negatively affect the workplace. This Drug-
Free Workplace Program applies to all employees as well as the village’s
contractors and subcontractors, and the consequences stated herein apply to all
who violate the policy.
   (b)   While all employees are accountable for conducting themselves in
compliance with this Policy, the village will provide support for employees who
voluntarily seek help. However, employees who do not come forward, and then
test positive for drug or alcohol use in violation of this Policy will be
subject to appropriate action up to and including termination of employment.
   (c)   Employees will receive information about substance use as a workplace
problem, signs and symptoms, dangers of use, and how and where to get help for
themselves and their families. The village’s Drug-Free Workplace Program
Administrator will coordinate drug and alcohol testing, identify resources to
assist employees, and arrange for employee awareness education and supervisor
training.
(Ord. 02-2005, passed 5-9-2005)
§ 248.03 PROGRAM PROTECTIONS.
   The village enacted this Policy to protect all employees from the dangers of
substance use in the workplace. In addition, the Policy seeks to protect
employee rights by:
   (a)   Maintaining as confidential all employee records regarding test
results and referrals for assistance. Any violation of confidentiality rights
is subject to disciplinary action up to and including termination of
employment;
   (b)   Providing annual substance awareness education to identify problems
and learn where to turn to for assistance;
   (c)   Performing all testing through a federally certified laboratory to
ensure that results are accurate and reviewed by a Medical Review Officer
(MRO). When the MRO receives a positive test result, the MRO will contact the
employee and any appropriate health care provider to determine whether there is
a valid reason for the presence of the drug in the employee’s system;
   (d)   Conducting an initial screening test, such that if the initial results
are positive, then a second test will be performed. federal and state
guidelines dictate the amount of a particular substance required to result in a
“positive” test;
   (e)   Requiring that every current employee attend a training session
regarding this program where employees will have an opportunity to ask
questions; and
   (f)   Training supervisors to recognize substance problems that may violate
this Policy, which training will be in addition to the annual employee
education. Supervisors will receive training about testing responsibilities,
how to recognize behaviors that demonstrate an alcohol/drug problem and how to
refer employees for assistance.
(Ord. 02-2005, passed 5-9-2005)
§ 248.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (a)   “Controlled substance or drugs.” Amphetamines (speed, uppers) cocaine
(including crack), marijuana, opiates (codeine, morphine), phencyclidine (PCP,
“angel dust”). The village reserves the right to add or delete substances on
the list above.
   (b)   “Conviction.” Any finding of guilt, including a plea of nolo
contendere (no contest) or the imposition of a sentence, or both, by any
judicial body charged with the responsibility to determine violations of the
federal, state or local criminal drug statutes.
   (c)   “Criminal drug statute.” A criminal statute involving manufacture,
distribution, dispensation, use or possession of any controlled substance. For
purposes of this policy all definitions will be consistent with R.C. §§ 3719.01
et seq.
(Ord. 02-2005, passed 5-9-2005)
§ 248.05 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   Employees are prohibited from engaging in any of the following conduct.
   (a)   The unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensation, possession or
use controlled substance by any employee, which takes place in whole or in part
in village’s workplace is strictly prohibited and will result in criminal
prosecution employee discipline up to and including termination of employment.
   (b)   Any employee convicted of any federal, state or local criminal
controlled substance, alcohol or drug statute must notify the employer of that
fact within five calendar days of the conviction. Any employee who is so
convicted will be subject to discipline up to and including termination of
employment.
   (c)   Any employee who reports for duty in an altered or impaired condition,
which is the result of the illegal use of controlled substances and/or the
misuse of alcohol, will be subject to disciplinary action up to and including
termination. Any decision to take disciplinary action may be held in abeyance
pending the completion by the employee of an approved Employee Assistance
Program.
   (d)   Any employee convicted of a workplace related drug offense who fails
to report the conviction as required by the above will be terminated from
employment.
(Ord. 02-2005, passed 5-9-2005)
§ 248.06 DRUG AND ALCOHOL TESTING.
   Testing for controlled substances/drugs and alcohol is intended to detect
problems, deter usage and allow appropriate corrective action. Any employee who
attempts to adulterate a specimen or otherwise manipulate the testing process
or who refuses to produce/provide a specimen will be terminated. Employees will
be tested for the presence of drugs in the urine and/or alcohol on the breath
under any and/or all of the conditions outlined below.
   (a)   Post-Offer, Pre-Employment Drug Testing. The village will require that
all applicants complete a post-offer, pre-employment drug screen/test. Any
offer of employment is contingent upon, among other things, a negative result
upon completion of this screening, and a determination by the village that the
applicant is capable of performing the responsibilities of the position.
   (b)   Reasonable Suspicion Testing. Reasonable suspicion testing will occur
when village management and/or supervision has reason to suspect that an
employee may be in violation of this Policy. The suspicion must be documented
in writing within 24-hours of the event or prior to the release of the test
findings. Reasonable suspicion testing may be based upon, among other things:
      (1)   Observed behavior, such as direct observation of drug/alcohol use
or possession and/or the physical symptoms of drug and/or alcohol use;
      (2)   A pattern of abnormal conduct or erratic behavior;
      (3)   Arrest or conviction for a drug-related offense, or the
identification of an employee as the focus of a criminal investigation into
illegal drug possession, use or trafficking. The employee is responsible for
notification of the village, within five working days, of any drug-related
conviction;
      (4)   Information provided either by reliable and credible sources or
independently corroborated regarding an employee’s substance use; or
      (5)   Newly discovered evidence that the employee has tampered with a
previous drug or alcohol test.
   (c)   Post-Accident Testing.
      (1)   Post-accident testing will be conducted whenever an “accident”
occurs. “Accident” is defined as an unplanned, unexpected or unintended event
that occurs on village property, during the conduct of the village’s business,
or during working hours, or which involves village-supplied motor vehicles or
motor vehicles that are used in conducting village business, or is within the
scope of employment, and which results in any of the following:
         A.   A fatality of anyone involved in the accident;
         B.   Bodily injury to the employee and/or another person that requires
off-site medical attention away from the village’s place of employment;
         C.   Vehicular damage in apparent excess of $750; or
         D.   Non-vehicular damage in apparent excess of $500.
   (2)   When such an accident occurs, any employee who contributed to the
accident will be tested for drugs or alcohol use or both.
   (3)   Urine specimen collection (for a drug test) or breath/saliva (for an
alcohol test) will occur immediately after an accident. At no time shall a drug
specimen be collected after 32 hours from the time of an employment-related
incident. Breath or saliva alcohol testing will be performed within two hours
of the accident whenever possible, but never beyond eight hours. If the
employee responsible for an “accident” is injured, it is a condition of
employment that the employee herein expressly grants the village the right to
request that attending medical personnel obtain appropriate specimens (breath,
blood and/or urine) for the purpose of conducting alcohol and/or drug testing.
Further, all employees herein expressly grant the village access to any and all
other medical information that may be relevant in conducting a complete and
thorough investigation of the “accident”, to include, but not be limited to, a
full medical report from the examining physicians(s) or other health care
providers.
   (d)   Random Drug Testing. The village will randomly drug test all employees
and contract workers without advance notice. A non-village testing organization
will utilize a random selection process in which all employees in the testing
pool have an equal statistical likelihood of being selected for testing. For
each random draw, all employees are included in the pool with an equal chance
of selection, regardless of whether the village previously tested the employee.
The village will notify each employee who was selected with the date, time and
location of the random test. When notified, the individual employee will
provide a urine specimen for drug testing and/or submit to breath alcohol
testing. An employee’s failure to comply with the request for a specimen for
random testing will result in termination of employment.
   (e)   Return to Work or Post Treatment Testing. When an employee who has
previously tested positive is allowed to return to work under a “second-chance”
or “last-chance” agreement. A return to work test is required before the
employee is allowed to return to work. If the employee fails this test,
employment is automatically terminated. Once an employee passes the drug and/or
alcohol test and returns to work, the village retains the right to conduct a
series of four to six tests in its absolute discretion over an 18-month period.
Any employee with a second positive test result under any of the above bases
for testing will be terminated.
(Ord. 02-2005, passed 5-9-2005)
§ 248.07 SPECIMEN COLLECTION PROCEDURE.
   Testing shall be conducted by trained collection personnel who meet quality
assurance and chain-of-custody requirements for urine collection and breath
alcohol testing. Any employee subject to testing shall be permitted to provide
urine specimens in private, but subject to strict scrutiny by collection
personnel to prevent any alteration or substitution of the specimen. In all
cases, only one employee will be tested at a time. Failure to appear for
testing when scheduled shall be considered refusal to participate in testing,
and will subject an employee to disciplinary action, including dismissal and an
applicant to the cancellation of an offer of employment.
(Ord. 02-2005, passed 5-9-2005)
§ 248.08 METHODS OF TESTING.
   (a)   For each of the drugs or controlled substances for which the village
tests, an initial test is used to screen the urine specimen. A negative
screening test is considered a negative result. If the initial screen is
positive, which means a presence at or higher than a cut-off level as defined
by the federal Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS), the employee
will be subject to a second or confirmatory test.
   (b)   Breath alcohol testing will be conducted using certified equipment and
personnel. Breath alcohol concentration exceeding .04 is considered a verified
positive result. In the event of an accident where an employee has “blood”
drawn at a medical treatment facility, a result equal to or greater than .04
shall be considered to be a verified positive result. An evidentiary breath
test (EBT) may be used to confirm any initial positive test result.
(Ord. 02-2005, passed 5-9-2005)
§ 248.09 REPORTING OF TEST RESULTS.
   All test results will be reported to the MRO prior to the results being
issued to the village. The MRO will receive from the testing laboratory a
detailed report of the findings of the specimen. Each substance for which the
village tests will be listed along with the results of testing. The village
will receive a summary report, and this report will indicate whether the
employee passed or failed the test. All of these procedures are intended to be
consistent with the most current guidelines for Medical Review Officers,
published by the federal DHHS.
(Ord. 02-2005, passed 5-9-2005)
§ 248.10 POSITIVE TEST RESULTS AND TERMINATION NOTICES.
   Employees who receive a confirmed positive drug or alcohol test will be
immediately taken off safety-sensitive duties and subject to discipline up to
and including termination. In those cases where the testing results or refusal
to take advantage of the employee assistance option requires the termination of
employment, all termination notices will list “misconduct” as the reason.
Termination shall be deemed “for cause.”
(Ord. 02-2005, passed 5-9-2005)
§ 248.11 EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE.
   (a)   The village may offer assistance to employees with a substance use
problem who voluntarily take action to address a substance problem, and the
village may provide these employees a second chance, if the employee is willing
to actively engage in treatment to resolve the substance use problem. The
village will refer the employee to a treatment provider for an assessment and
possible outpatient counseling.
   (b)   Employees who violate this Policy or fail to meet with a treatment
provider, attend treatment sessions or actively participate in said treatment
will not receive a “second chance.” However, an employee who completes an
approved course of treatment may be allowed to return to work subject to
signing a “second chance” or “last chance” agreement acknowledging that a
second violation of the Policy will result in termination of employment and
provided the village still has a position available for which the employee is
qualified to perform the essential functions of the job, with or without
reasonable accommodation. The village will test the employee prior to returning
the employee to work, and at various times thereafter in conformance with this
policy. All subsequent tests must be negative.
(Ord. 02-2005, passed 5-9-2005)
CHAPTER 250: EMPLOYEE HANDBOOK
Section
250.01   Adopted.
§ 250.01 ADOPTED.
   The Employee Handbook attached to Ord. 13-2019 as Exhibit “A”, and
incorporated herein by reference, setting forth personnel policies and
procedures for employees of the Village of Minerva Park, is hereby adopted.
(Ord. 22-2016, passed 1-9-2017; Ord. 13-2019, passed 10-28-2019; Ord. 10-2020,
passed 8-10-2020; Ord. 01-2021, passed 2-8-2021; Ord. 16-2021, passed 12-14-
2021)
CHAPTER 251: INDIGENT BURIALS
Section
251.10   Funeral director’s statement.
251.20   Payment of expenses.
§ 251.10 FUNERAL DIRECTOR’S STATEMENT.
   Any funeral director burying and/or cremating the dead body of any indigent
person whereby payment is required by any state statute providing for payment
by the village, shall submit to the Mayor, Fiscal Officer or designee a sworn
statement documenting contributions received from the decedent’s friends,
relatives or from any other sources, including, but not limited to, veteran’s
benefits, Social Security benefits, insurance, real or personal property or of
anything of value, which may be applied to the burial expense of such person,
and containing an itemized statement of the burial expense of such person.
(Ord. 03-2015, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 251.20 PAYMENT OF EXPENSES.
   Upon the submission of such sworn statement and appropriate application for
payment, to and approved by the Mayor, Fiscal Officer or designee, as being in
compliance with the requirements of this chapter, there shall be paid to such
funeral director for the burial and/or cremation of such person an amount not
to exceed $600. Such payment shall include the cemetery and/or crematory
charges, less the amount of anything of value which may be applied to such
funeral expense as shown on the sworn statement referenced in §
251.10.
(Ord. 03-2015, passed 5-11-2015)
CHAPTER 252: HEALTHCARE
Section
252.01   Eligibility.
252.02   Spouse coverage.
252.03   Deductibles.
252.04   Salary redirection plan.
252.05   Health savings account.
252.06   Village HSA contribution.
252.07   Waiver of village contribution.
252.08   Pro-rating contributions.
252.09   Waiver of coverage.
252.10   Premiums.
252.11   Application of specific sections.
252.12   Renewal of plans.
§ 252.01 ELIGIBILITY.
   (a)   Full-time employees of the village shall be eligible for life and
accidental death and dismemberment, dental, vision, and major medical insurance
coverage as provided by the village from time to time upon such terms,
conditions and requirements as defined herein.
   (b)   All insurance plans shall begin coverage the first of the month
following the start of employment and shall continue through the end of the
month of separation.
(Ord. 24-2015, passed 10-26-2015; Ord. 31-2017, passed 12-11-2017; Ord. 22-
2019, passed 11-18-2019)
§ 252.02 SPOUSE COVERAGE.
   Employees whose spouse has health care benefits available from their
employer shall take the coverage available. Employees who are eligible for
family coverage and have a spouse also employed by the village and eligible for
family coverage may only elect coverage under one of the spouse’s family
coverage options. Said spouses may not hold two separate, single coverage
plans.
(Ord. 24-2015, passed 10-26-2015; Ord. 31-2017, passed 12-11-2017; Ord. 22-
2019, passed 11-18-2019)
§ 252.03 DEDUCTIBLES.
   The major medical insurance program shall be provided through a high
deductible health care plan, which deductibles shall be $3,000 for individuals
and $6,000 for family plans.
(Ord. 24-2015, passed 10-26-2015; Ord. 31-2017, passed 12-11-2017; Ord. 22-
2019, passed 11-18-2019)
§ 252.04 SALARY REDIRECTION PLAN.
   The village provides an Employee Salary Redirection Plan commonly referred
to as a Section 125 Plan allowing employees to use pre-tax dollars to
contribute to their HSA and purchase other eligible insurance plans.
(Ord. 24-2015, passed 10-26-2015; Ord. 31-2017, passed 12-11-2017; Ord. 22-
2019, passed 11-18-2019)
§ 252.05 HEALTH SAVINGS ACCOUNT.
   The village will contribute to a Health Savings Account (HSA) to assist with
the deductibles under the various medical insurance plans. The annual
contribution to a HSA is as follows:
 
                     Single Family
Village contribution $2,000 $4,000
 
(Ord. 24-2015, passed 10-26-2015; Ord. 31-2017, passed 12-11-2017; Ord. 22-
2019, passed 11-18-2019)
§ 252.06 VILLAGE HSA CONTRIBUTION.
   The village’s HSA contribution shall be deposited within ten business days
of dates after the start of a new year and on the dates identified below
thereafter and in the amounts listed below:
 
Payments Due Percentage of Contribution Single Family
January 1    50.00%                     $1,000 $2,000
April 1      30.00%                     600    1,200
July 1       20.00%                     400    800
 
(Ord. 24-2015, passed 10-26-2015; Ord. 31-2017, passed 12-11-2017; Ord. 22-
2019, passed 11-18-2019)
§ 252.07 WAIVER OF VILLAGE CONTRIBUTION.
   The Mayor, upon a written request identifying a significant hardship, may
waive all or part of the employer deposit timing for the HSA contribution made
by the village.
(Ord. 24-2015, passed 10-26-2015; Ord. 31-2017, passed 12-11-2017; Ord. 22-
2019, passed 11-18-2019)
§ 252.08 PRO-RATING CONTRIBUTIONS.
   (a)   For employees hired after March 31, the HSA contributions shall be
pro-rated based upon the number of full months employed by the village in their
initial year.
   (b)   The village recognizes that under Internal Revenue Service
regulations, eligible expenses of an HSA account are not limited to the major
medical deductibles under the village’s major medical plan. The employee is
solely responsible for the HSA and how funds are used.
(Ord. 24-2015, passed 10-26-2015; Ord. 31-2017, passed 12-11-2017; Ord. 22-
2019, passed 11-18-2019)
§ 252.09 WAIVER OF COVERAGE.
   Employees who elect to waive any of the village health insurance must
provide proof of coverage from the alternate provider within 30 days of
employment or qualifying event.
(Ord. 24-2015, passed 10-26-2015; Ord. 28-2016, passed 3-13-2017; Ord. 31-2017,
passed 12-11-2017; Ord. 22-2019, passed 11-18-2019)
§ 252.10 PREMIUMS.
   Employees hired after January 1, 2016, will be required to contribute and
pay $10 per month for single and $20 for family coverage towards the medical
insurance premiums. If the annual change in aggregate monthly premiums exceeds
10%, the Fiscal Officer shall, effective with the first pay date in January
each year, adjust the monthly employee contribution by the same percentage of
change as in the change in the monthly aggregate premium.
(Ord. 24-2015, passed 10-26-2015; Ord. 31-2017, passed 12-11-2017; Ord. 22-
2019, passed 11-18-2019)
§ 252.11 APPLICATION OF SPECIFIC SECTIONS.
   Sections
252.02,
252.06 and
252.08 of this chapter are effective for any employee hired after January 1,
2016.
(Ord. 24-2015, passed 10-26-2015; Ord. 31-2017, passed 12-11-2017; Ord. 22-
2019, passed 11-18-2019)
§ 252.12 RENEWAL OF PLANS.
   The Mayor and Fiscal Officer are authorized to renewal the health care plans
with Medical Mutual, Delta Dental and Vision Service Plan through Burnham and
Flower Insurance Group for 2020, and for 2021 so long as the same plans are
available and any increase in premiums is less than 10%.
(Ord. 24-2015, passed 10-26-2015; Ord. 31-2017, passed 12-11-2017; Ord. 22-
2019, passed 11-18-2019)
TITLE EIGHT: BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 280: PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
EDITOR’S NOTE: Provisions relating to the Planning and Zoning Commission are
codified in Chapter 1202 of Part Twelve - the Planning and Zoning Code.
CHAPTER 282: RECORDS COMMISSION
EDITOR’S NOTE: There are no sections in Chapter 282. This chapter has been
established to provide a place for cross-references and any future legislation.
Cross-reference:
   Records of the Planning and Zoning Commission, see §
1202.05
Statutory reference:
   Availability of records, see R.C. §§ 149.42, 149.43
   Destruction of records, see R.C. §§ 149.11, 149.35, 149.351
   Keeping of public records for P.E.R.S., see R.C. § 145.18
   Photosat, microfilm or other recording, see R.C. § 9.01
   Records and archives defined, see R.C. § 149.40
   Recovery of stolen records, see R.C. § 149.352
CHAPTER 284: VOLUNTEER FIRE FIGHTERS DEPENDENTS FUND BOARD
EDITOR’S NOTE: There are no sections in Chapter 284. This chapter has been
established to provide a place for cross-references and any future legislation.
Cross-reference:
   Fire Department and fire protection, see
Ch. 244
Statutory reference:
   Police and Firemen’s Disability and Pension Fund; Death Benefit Fund, see
R.C. Ch. 742
   Volunteer Fire Fighters’ Dependents Fund, see R.C. Ch. 146
TITLE TEN: JUDICIARY
CHAPTER 290: MAYOR’S COURT
EDITOR’S NOTE: The village contracts with the City of Columbus for the
prosecution of certain cases in the Franklin County Municipal Court. Copies of
the latest relevant legislation may be obtained, at cost, from the Fiscal
Officer.
Section
290.01   Clerk of Courts.
290.02   Mayor’s Court Computerization Fund.
290.03   Mayor’s Court Computer A Fund.
Cross-reference:
   Mayor, see
Ch. 230
Statutory reference:
   Contempt of court, see R.C. §§ 1905.28, 1907.18 et seq., 2935.11
   Detection and arrest, see R.C. Ch. 2935
   Mayor’s Court jurisdiction, see R.C. §§ 1905.01 et seq.
   Mayor’s powers and duties, see R.C. §§ 1905.20 et seq.
   Notification to Director of liquor law convictions, see R.C. §§ 4301.991
   Peace and search warrant, see R.C. Ch. 2933
   Preliminary examination; bail, see R.C. Ch. 2937
   Record of traffic violations, see R.C. § 4513.37
   Trial, see R.C. Ch. 2938
§ 290.01 CLERK OF COURTS.
   There is hereby established the permanent position of Clerk of Courts for
the village.
(Ord. 2-85, passed 1-8-1985)
§ 290.02 MAYOR’S COURT COMPUTERIZATION FUND.
   (a)   The Village of Minerva Park Mayor’s Court Computerization Fund is
hereby established to account for all monies received through additional court
costs assessed pursuant to R.C. § 1901.261(B).
   (b)   The Fund shall be used to acquire computer equipment, training and
services to assist the Clerk of Courts in the efficient operation of the
Mayor’s Court.
   (c)   All monies are deemed appropriated and the appropriate village
officials are authorized to make expenditures from the Fund for any lawful
purpose which is consistent with the purpose for which the Fund is established.
(Ord. 3-95, passed 7-10-1995)
§ 290.03 MAYOR’S COURT COMPUTER A FUND.
   (a)   Pursuant to the guidance provided by the Audit of State, the Fiscal
Officer shall request approval from the Auditor of State and upon approval from
shall create the Mayor’s Court Computer A Fund.
   (b)   The funds recorded to the Mayor’s Court Computer A Fund shall be use
to computerize the Mayor’s Court.
   (c)   The Fiscal Officer shall place the funds from the fees in the Mayor’s
Court Computer A Fund to be disbursed upon an order of the court, subject to an
appropriation by this Council.
(Ord. 25-2015, passed 10-12-2015)
PART FOUR: TRAFFIC CODE
   TITLE TWO - ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES
      
CHAP. 402.   DEFINITIONS
      
CHAP. 404.   ENFORCEMENT; IMPOUNDING
      
CHAP. 406.   TRAFFIC CONTROL
      
CHAP. 408.   PENALTIES
   TITLE FOUR – PUBLIC WAYS AND TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
      
CHAP. 412.   OBSTRUCTION AND SPECIAL USES OF PUBLIC WAYS
      
CHAP. 414.   TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
      
CHAP. 416.   PEDESTRIANS
   TITLE SIX – OPERATION AND VEHICLES
      
CHAP. 432.   OPERATION GENERALLY
      
CHAP. 434.   O.V.I.; RECKLESS OPERATION; SPEED
      
CHAP. 436.   LICENSING; ACCIDENTS
      
CHAP. 438.   SAFETY AND EQUIPMENT
      
CHAP. 440.   COMMERCIAL AND HEAVY VEHICLES
      
CHAP. 442.   DRIVERS OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES
      
CHAP. 444.   BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES GENERALLY
      
CHAP. 446.   SNOWMOBILES, OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLES AND ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLES
      
CHAP. 448.   WATERCRAFT
   TITLE EIGHT – PARKING
      
CHAP. 452.   PARKING GENERALLY
TITLE TWO: ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES
CHAPTER 402: DEFINITIONS
Section
402.01   Meaning of words and phrases.
Cross-reference:
   Blind person defined, see §
416.02
   Commercial car defined, see §
442.01
   Funeral procession defined, see §
432.23
   Snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle and all-purpose vehicle defined, see §
446.01
   Street racing defined, see §
434.09
§ 402.01 MEANING OF WORDS AND PHRASES.
   Except as otherwise provided, the definitions set forth in R.C. § 4501.01
shall apply to this traffic code and the penal laws of the municipality. Except
as otherwise provided, the following words and phrases, when used in this
traffic code, shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this
chapter.
   (a)   “Agricultural tractor.” Every self-propelled vehicle designed or used
for drawing other vehicles or wheeled machinery, but having no provision for
carrying loads independently of such other vehicles, and used principally for
agricultural purposes.
   (b)   “Alley.” A street or highway intended to provide access to the rear or
side of lots or buildings in urban districts, and not intended for the purpose
of through vehicular traffic, and any street or highway that has been declared
an “alley” by the legislative authority of the municipality in which the street
or highway is located.
   (c)   “Arterial street.” Any United States or state numbered route,
controlled-access highway, or other major radial or circumferential street or
highway designated by local authorities within their respective jurisdictions
as part of a major arterial system of streets or highways.
   (d)   “Beacon.” A highway traffic signal with one or more signal sections
that operate in a flashing mode.
   (e)   “Bicycle.” Every device, other than a device that is designed solely
for use as a play vehicle by a child, that is propelled solely by human power
upon which a person may ride, and that has two or more wheels, any of which is
more than 14 inches in diameter.
   (f)   “Bus.” Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than nine
passengers, and used for the transportation of persons other than in a
ridesharing arrangement, and every motor vehicle, automobile for hire or
funeral car, other than a taxicab or motor vehicle used in a ridesharing
arrangement, designed and used for the transportation of persons for
compensation.
   (g)   “Business district.” The territory fronting upon a street or highway,
including the street or highway, between successive intersections within the
municipality, where 50% or more of the frontage between successive
intersections is occupied by buildings in use for business, or within or
outside the municipality where 50% or more of the frontage for a distance of
300 feet or more is occupied by buildings in use for business, and the
character of the territory is indicated by official traffic- control devices.
   (h)   “Chauffeured limousine.” A motor vehicle that is designed to carry
nine or fewer passengers and is operated for hire pursuant to a prearranged
contract for the transportation of passengers on public roads and highways
along a route under the control of the person hiring the vehicle and not over a
defined and regular route. “Prearranged contract” means an agreement, made in
advance of boarding, to provide transportation from a specific location in a
chauffeured limousine. “Chauffeured limousine” does not include any vehicle
that is used exclusively in the business of funeral directing.
(R.C. § 4501.01(LL))
   (i)   “Child day-care center” and “type A family day-care home.” These terms
shall have the same meanings as set forth in R.C. § 5104.01.
   (j)   “Commercial tractor.” Every motor vehicle having motive power designed
or used for drawing other vehicles, and not so constructed as to carry any load
thereon, or designed or used for drawing other vehicles while carrying a
portion of the other vehicles, or the load thereon, or both.
   (k)   “Controlled-access highway.” Every street or highway in respect to
which owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal
right or access to or from the same except at certain points only and in a
manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over
the street or highway.
   (l)   “Crosswalk.”
      (1)   That part of a roadway at intersections ordinarily included within
the real or projected prolongation of property lines and curb lines or, in the
absence of curbs, the edges of the traversable roadway;
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere,
distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the
surface;
      (3)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this definition, there
shall not be a “crosswalk” where the legislative authority has placed signs
indicating no crossing.
   (m)   “Driver” or “operator.” Any person who drives or is in actual physical
control of a vehicle.
   (n)   “Electric bicycle.” Means a “class 1 electric bicycle”, a “class 2
electric bicycle”, or a “class 3 electric bicycle” as defined below.
      (1)   “Class 1 electric bicycle.” Means a bicycle that is equipped with
fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that
provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling and ceases to provide
assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 20 miles per hour.
      (2)   “Class 2 electric bicycle.” Means a bicycle that is equipped with
fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that may
provide assistance regardless of whether the rider is pedaling and is not
capable of providing assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 20 miles
per hour.
      (3)   “Class 3 electric bicycle.” Means a bicycle that is equipped with
fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that
provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling and ceases to provide
assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 28 miles per hour.
   (o)   “Emergency vehicle.” Emergency vehicles of municipal, township or
county departments or public utility corporations, when identified as such as
required by law, the Director of Public Safety or local authorities, and motor
vehicles when commandeered by a police officer.
   (p)   “Explosives.” Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is
intended for the purpose of producing an explosion that contains any oxidizing
and combustible units or other ingredients in such proportions, quantities or
packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by percussion or
by a detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause a sudden
generation of highly heated gases, such that the resultant gaseous pressures
are capable of producing destructive effects on contiguous objects, or of
destroying life or limb. Manufactured articles shall not be held to be
“explosives” when the individual units contain explosives in limited quantities
of a nature or in such packing that it is impossible to procure a simultaneous
or a destructive explosion of the units, to the injury of life, limb or
property by fire, friction, concussion, percussion or by a detonator, such as
fixed ammunition for small arms, firecrackers or safety fuse matches.
   (q)   “Expressway.” A divided arterial highway for through traffic with full
or partial control of access with an excess of 50% of all crossroads separated
in grade.
   (r)   “Flammable liquid.” Any liquid which has a flash point of 70°F or
less, as determined by a tagliabue or equivalent closed cup test device.
   (s)   “Freeway.” A divided multi-lane highway for through traffic with
crossroads separated in grade and with full control of access.
   (t)   “Funeral escort vehicle.” Any motor vehicle, including a funeral
hearse, while used to facilitate the movement of a funeral procession.
   (u)   “Gross weight.” The weight of a vehicle plus the weight of any load
thereon.
   (v)   “Highway maintenance vehicle.” A vehicle used in snow and ice removal
or road surface maintenance, including a snow plow, traffic line striper, road
sweeper, mowing machine, asphalt distributing vehicle, or other such vehicle
designed for use in specific highway maintenance activities.
   (w)   “Highway traffic signal.” A power-operated traffic control device by
which traffic is warned or directed to take some specific action. The term does
not include a power-operated sign, steadily illuminated pavement marker,
warning light, or steady burning electric lamp.
   (x)   “Hybrid beacon.” A type of beacon that is intentionally placed in a
dark mode between periods of operation where no indications are displayed and,
when in operation, displays both steady and flashing traffic control signal
indications.
   (y)   “Intersection.”
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of
two highways that join one another at, or approximately at, right angles, or
the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways that join at
any other angle might come into conflict. The junction of an alley or driveway
with a roadway or highway does not constitute an intersection unless the
roadway or highway at the junction is controlled by a traffic control device.
      (2)   If a highway includes two roadways that are 30 feet or more apart,
then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway constitutes a separate intersection. If both intersecting highways
include two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then every crossing of any two
roadways of such highways constitutes a separate intersection.
      (3)   At a location controlled by a traffic control signal, regardless of
the distance between the separate intersections as described in division (2) of
this definition:
         A.   If a stop line, yield line, or crosswalk has not been designated
on the roadway within the median between the separate intersections, the two
intersections and the roadway and median constitute one intersection.
         B.   Where a stop line, yield line, or crosswalk line is designated on
the roadway on the intersection approach, the area within the crosswalk and any
area beyond the designated stop line or yield line constitute part of the
intersection.
         C.   Where a crosswalk is designated on a roadway on the departure
from the intersection, the intersection includes the area that extends to the
far side of the crosswalk.
   (z)   “Laned highway.” A highway the roadway of which is divided into two or
more clearly marked lanes for vehicular traffic.
   (aa)   “Local authorities.” Every county, municipal and other local board or
body having authority to adopt police regulations under the Constitution and
laws of this state.
   (bb)   "Low-speed micromobility device." Means a device weighing less than
100 pounds that has handlebars, is propelled by an electric motor or human
power, and has an attainable speed on a paved level surface of not more than 20
miles per hour when propelled by the electric motor.
   (cc)   “Median.” The area between two roadways of a divided highway,
measured from edge of traveled way to edge of traveled way, but excluding turn
lanes. The width of a median may be different between intersections, between
interchanges, and at opposite approaches of the same intersection.
   (dd)   “Motor vehicle.” Every vehicle propelled or drawn by power other than
muscular power or power collected from overhead electric trolley wires, except
motorized bicycles, electric bicycles, road rollers, traction engines, power
shovels, power cranes and other equipment used in construction work, and not
designed for or employed in general highway transportation, hole-digging
machinery, well-drilling machinery, ditch-digging machinery, farm machinery,
and trailers designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place
of storage and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a
street or highway for a distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25
miles per hour or less.
   (ee)   “Motorcycle.” Every motor vehicle, other than a tractor, having a
seat or saddle for the use of the operator and designed to travel on not more
than three wheels in contact with the ground, including but not limited to
motor vehicles known as “motor-driven cycle”, “motor scooter” “autocycle”,
“cab- enclosed motorcycle”, or “motorcycle” without regard to weight or brake
horsepower.
   (ff)   “Motorized bicycle or moped.” Any vehicle having either two tandem
wheels or one wheel in the front and two wheels in the rear, that may be
capable of being pedaled, and that is equipped with a helper motor of not more
than 50 cubic centimeters piston displacement that produces not more than one
brake horsepower, and is capable of propelling the vehicle at a speed of not
greater than 20 miles per hour on a level surface. The terms do not include an
electric bicycle.
   (gg)   “Motorized wheelchair.” Any self-propelled vehicle designed for, and
used by, a person with a disability and that is incapable of a speed in excess
of eight miles per hour.
   (hh)   “Multi-wheel agricultural tractor.” A type of agricultural tractor
that has two or more wheels or tires on each side of one axle at the rear of
the tractor, is designed or used for drawing other vehicles or wheeled
machinery, has no provision for carrying loads independently of the drawn
vehicles or machinery, and is used principally for agricultural purposes.
   (ii)   “Operate.” To cause or have caused movement of a vehicle.
   (jj)   “Parking” or “parked.” The standing of a vehicle upon a street, road,
alley, highway or public ground, whether accompanied or unaccompanied by a
driver, but does not include the temporary standing of a vehicle for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or loading merchandise or
passengers.
   (kk)   “Pedestrian.” Any natural person afoot. The term includes a personal
delivery device as defined in R.C. § 4511.513 unless the context clearly
suggests otherwise.
   (ll)   “Person.” Every natural person, firm, partnership, association or
corporation.
   (mm)   “Pole trailer.” Every trailer or semitrailer attached to the towing
vehicle by means of a reach, pole, or by being boomed or otherwise secured to
the towing vehicle, and ordinarily used for transporting long or irregular
shaped loads such as poles, pipes or structural members capable, generally, of
sustaining themselves as beams between the supporting connections.
   (nn)   “Police officer.” Every officer authorized to direct or regulate
traffic, or to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
   (oo)   “Predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense.” Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. §§ 4511.03, 4511.051, 4511.12, 4511.132,
4511.16, 4511.20, 4511.201, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.213, 4511.22, 4511.23,
4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32,
4511.33, 4511.34, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40,
4511.41, 4511.42, 4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.432, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.451,
4511.452, 4511.46, 4511.47, 4511.48, 4511.481, 4511.49, 4511.50, 4511.511,
4511.53, 4511.54, 4511.55, 4511.56, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59, 4511.60,
4511.61, 4511.64, 4511.66, 4511.661, 4511.68, 4511.70, 4511.701, 4511.71,
4511.711, 4511.712, 4511.713, 4511.72, 4511.73, 4511.763, 4511.771, 4511.78 or
4511.84;
      (2)   A violation of R.C. §§ 4511.17(A)(2), 4511.51(A) through (D) or
4511.74(A);
      (3)   A violation of any provision of R.C. §§ 4511.01 through 4511.76 for
which no penalty otherwise is provided in the section that contains the
provision violated;
      (4)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.214;
      (5)   A violation of a municipal ordinance that is substantially
equivalent to any section or provision set forth or described in division (1),
(2), (3), or (4) of this definition.
   (pp)   “Private road open to public travel.” A private toll road or road,
including any adjacent sidewalks that generally run parallel to the road,
within a shopping center, airport, sports arena, or other similar business or
recreation facility that is privately owned but where the public is allowed to
travel without access restrictions. The term includes a gated toll road but
does not include a road within a private gated property where access is
restricted at all times, a parking area, a driving aisle within a parking area,
or a private grade crossing.
   (qq)   “Private road or driveway.” Every way or place in private ownership
used for vehicular travel by the owner, and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
   (rr)   “Public safety vehicle.” Any of the following:
      (1)   Ambulances, including private ambulance companies under contract to
a municipality, township or county, and private ambulances and nontransport
vehicles bearing license plates issued under R.C. § 4503.49;
      (2)   Motor vehicles used by public law enforcement officers or other
persons sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state;
      (3)   Any motor vehicle when properly identified as required by the
Director of Public Safety, when used in response to fire emergency calls or to
provide emergency medical service to ill or injured persons, and when operated
by a duly qualified person who is a member of a volunteer rescue service or a
volunteer fire department, and who is on duty pursuant to the rules or
directives of that service. The State Fire Marshal shall be designated by the
Director of Public Safety as the certifying agency for all public safety
vehicles described herein;
      (4)   Vehicles used by fire departments, including motor vehicles when
used by volunteer firefighters responding to emergency calls in the fire
department service when identified as required by the Director of Public
Safety;
      (5)   Any vehicle used to transport or provide emergency medical service
to an ill or injured person, when certified as a “public safety vehicle”, shall
be considered such a vehicle when transporting an ill or injured person to a
hospital, regardless of whether the vehicle has already passed a hospital;
      (6)   Vehicles used by the Motor Carrier Enforcement Unit for the
enforcement of orders and rules of the Public Utilities Commission as specified
in R.C. § 5503.34.
   (ss)   “Railroad.” A carrier of persons or property operating upon rails
placed principally on a private right-of-way.
   (tt)   “Railroad sign or signal.” Any sign, signal or device erected by
authority of a public body or official or by a railroad, and intended to give
notice of the presence of railroad tracks or the approach of a railroad train.
   (uu)   “Railroad train.” A steam engine or an electric or other motor, with
or without cars coupled thereto, operated by a railroad.
   (vv)   “Residence district.” The territory, not comprising a business
district, fronting on a street or highway, including the street or highway,
where, for a distance of 300 feet or more, the frontage is improved with
residences or residences and buildings in use for business.
   (ww)   “Ridesharing arrangement.” Includes the transportation of persons in
a motor vehicle where the transportation is incidental to another purpose of a
volunteer driver, and includes “ridesharing arrangements” known as carpools,
vanpools and buspools.
   (xx)   “Right-of-way.” Either of the following, as the context requires:
      (1)   The right of a vehicle or pedestrian to proceed uninterruptedly in
a lawful manner in the direction in which it, he or she is moving, in
preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching from a different
direction into its, his or her path;
      (2)   A general term denoting land, property or the interest therein,
usually in the configuration of a strip, acquired for or devoted to
transportation purposes. When used in this context, “right-of-way” includes the
roadway, shoulders or berm, ditch and slopes extending to the right-of-way
limits under the control of the state or local authority.
   (yy)   “Road service vehicle.” Wreckers, utility repair vehicles and state,
county and municipal service vehicles equipped with visual signals by means of
flashing, rotating or oscillating lights.
   (zz)   “Roadway.” That portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel, except the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes
two or more separate roadways, the term “roadway” means any roadway separately,
but not all the roadways collectively.
   (aaa)   “Rural mail delivery vehicle.” Every vehicle used to deliver United
States mail on a rural mail delivery route.
   (bbb)   “Safety zone.” The area or space officially set apart within a
roadway for the exclusive use of pedestrians, and protected or marked or
indicated by adequate signs so as to be plainly visible at all times.
   (ccc)   “School bus.” Every bus designed for carrying more than nine
passengers which is owned by a public, private or governmental agency or
institution of learning, and operated for the transportation of children to or
from a school session or a school function, or owned by a private person and
operated for compensation for the transportation of children to or from a
school session or a school function; provided, “school bus” does not include a
bus operated by a municipally owned transportation system, a mass transit
company operating exclusively within the territorial limits of a municipality,
or within those limits and the territorial limits of municipalities immediately
contiguous to the municipality, nor a common passenger carrier certified by the
Public Utilities Commission unless the bus is devoted exclusively to the
transportation of children to and from a school session or a school function,
and “school bus” does not include a van or bus used by a licensed child day-
care center or type A family day-care home to transport children from the child
day-care center or type A family day-care home to a school if the van or bus
does not have more than 15 children in the van or bus at any time.
   (ddd)   “Semitrailer.” Every vehicle designed or used for carrying persons
or property with another and separate motor vehicle so that in operation a part
of its own weight or that of its load, or both, rests upon and is carried by
another vehicle.
   (eee)   “Shared-use path.” A bikeway outside the traveled way and physically
separated from motorized vehicular traffic by an open space or barrier and
either within the highway right-of-way or within an independent alignment. A
shared-use path also may be used by pedestrians, including skaters, joggers,
users of manual and motorized wheelchairs, and other authorized motorized and
non-motorized users. A shared-use path does not include any trail that is
intended to be used primarily for mountain biking, hiking, equestrian use, or
other similar uses, or any other single track or natural surface trial that has
historically been reserved for non-motorized use.
   (fff)   “Sidewalk.” That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the
lateral line of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for the
use of pedestrians.
   (ggg)   “State highway.” A highway under the jurisdiction of the Department
of Transportation, outside the limits of municipalities, provided that the
authority conferred upon the Director of Transportation in R.C. § 5511.01 to
erect state highway route markers and signs directing traffic shall not be
modified by R.C. §§ 4511.01 through 4511.79 and 4511.99.
   (hhh)   “State route.” Every highway which is designated with an official
state route number and so marked.
   (iii)   “Stop.” When required, means a complete cessation of movement.
   (jjj)   “Stop intersection.” Any intersection at one or more entrances of
which stop signs are erected.
   (kkk)   “Stopping” or “standing.” When prohibited, means any halting of a
vehicle, even momentarily, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic-
control device.
   (lll)   “Street” or “highway.” The entire width between the boundary lines
of every way open to the use of the public as a thoroughfare for purposes of
vehicular travel.
   (mmm)   “Through highway.” Every street or highway as provided in R.C. §
4511.65, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (nnn)   “Thruway.” A through highway whose entire roadway is reserved for
through traffic and on which roadway parking is prohibited.
   (ooo)   “Traffic.” Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles,
streetcars, and other devices, either singly or together, while using for
purposes of travel any highway or private road open to public travel.
   (ppp)   “Traffic control device.” A flagger, sign, signal, marking, or other
device used to regulate, warn, or guide traffic, placed on, over, or adjacent
to a street, highway, private road open to public travel, pedestrian facility,
or shared-use path by authority of a public agency or official having
jurisdiction, or, in the case of a private road open to public travel, by
authority of the private owner or private official having jurisdiction.
   (qqq)   “Traffic control signal.” Any highway traffic signal by which
traffic is alternately directed to stop and permitted to proceed.
   (rrr)   “Trailer.” Every vehicle designed or used for carrying persons or
property wholly on its own structure, and for being drawn by a motor vehicle,
including any vehicle when formed by or operated as a combination of a
semitrailer and a vehicle of the dolly type, such as that commonly known as a
trailer dolly, a vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or agricultural
production materials between a local place of storage or supply and the farm
when drawn or towed on a street or highway at a speed greater than 25 miles per
hour and a vehicle designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a
place of storage and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed
on a street or highway for a distance of more than ten miles or at a speed of
more than 25 miles per hour.
   (sss)   “Truck.” Every motor vehicle, except trailers and semitrailers,
designed and used to carry property.
   (ttt)   “Urban district.” The territory contiguous to and including any
street or highway which is built up with structures devoted to business,
industry or dwelling houses situated at intervals of less than 100 feet for a
distance of one-quarter of a mile or more, and the character of the territory
is indicated by official traffic-control devices.
   (uuu)   “Vehicle.” Every device, including a motorized bicycle and an
electric bicycle, in, upon or by which any person or property may be
transported or drawn upon a highway, except that “vehicle” does not include any
motorized wheelchair, any electric personal assistive mobility device, ny low-
speed micromobility device, any personal delivery device as defined in R.C. §
4511.513, any device that is moved by power collected from overhead electric
trolley wires or that is used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks or
any device, other than a bicycle, that is moved by human power.
   (vvv)   “Waste collection vehicle.” A vehicle used in the collection of
garbage, refuse, trash, or recyclable materials.
(R.C. § 4511.01)
CHAPTER 404: ENFORCEMENT; IMPOUNDING
Section
404.01   Police may remove ignition key.
404.02   Resisting an enforcing official.
404.03   Road workers, motor vehicles and equipment excepted.
404.04   Emergency, public safety and coroners’ vehicles excepted.
404.05   Application to persons riding, driving animals upon roadway.
404.06   Application to drivers of government vehicles.
404.07   Impounding of vehicles; redemption.
404.08   Traffic direction in emergencies; obedience to school guards.
404.09   Furnishing false information incident to traffic citation.
404.99   Penalty.
Cross-reference:
   Dereliction of duty, see §
654.12
   Disposition of property held by Police Department, see §
654.16
   Exceptions for emergency or public safety vehicles, see §§
432.19,
434.07
   Failure to aid a law enforcement officer, see §
654.05
   Limitation on criminal prosecutions, see §
606.06
   Parking violations waiver, see §
452.18
   Obstructing justice, see §
654.07
   Obstructing official business, see §
654.06
   Resisting arrest, see §
654.08
   Soliciting or receiving improper compensation, see §
654.11
   Suspension of riding privileges; impounding of bicycles, see §
444.10
Statutory reference:
   Arrest without warrant for misdemeanor, see R.C. § 2935.03
   Authority of arresting officer when radar, electrical or mechanical timing
device used, see R.C. § 4511.091
   Burden of proof, see R.C. § 2901.05
   Discharge for delay in trial, see R.C. § 2945.73
   Disposition of unclaimed vehicles, see R.C. § 737.32, 4513.61 et seq.
   Distinctive uniform required for traffic officers, see R.C. § 4549.15
   Extension of time for hearing or trial, see R.C. § 2945.72
   Marking motor vehicles used by traffic officers, see R.C. § 4549.13
   Power of trial court of record to suspend license for certain violations,
see R.C. § 4510.05, 4510.15
   Right of trial by jury, see R.C. § 2945.17
   State point system suspension, see R.C. § 4510.036
   Time within which hearing or trial must be held, see R.C. § 2945.71
   Uniform application of Ohio Traffic Law, see R.C. § 4511.06
   Use of private property for vehicular travel, see R.C. § 4511.08
§ 404.01 POLICE MAY REMOVE IGNITION KEY.
   A law enforcement officer may remove the ignition key left in the ignition
switch of an unlocked and unattended motor vehicle parked on a street or
highway. The officer removing the key shall place notification upon the vehicle
detailing his or her name and badge number, the place where the key may be
reclaimed, and the procedure for reclaiming the key. The key shall be returned
to the owner of the motor vehicle upon presentation of proof of ownership.
(R.C. § 4549.05)
§ 404.02 RESISTING AN ENFORCING OFFICIAL.
   (a)   No person shall resist, hinder, obstruct or abuse any sheriff,
constable or other official while that official is attempting to arrest
offenders under any provision of this traffic code. No person shall interfere
with any person charged under any provision of this traffic code with the
enforcement of the law relative to public highways.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.36)
   (c)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the hindrance,
obstruction, resistance or interference alleged consisted of constitutionally
protected speech only.
§ 404.03 ROAD WORKERS, MOTOR VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT EXCEPTED.
   (a)   The provisions of this traffic code, except for §
434.01, do not apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles, and other equipment
while actually engaged in work upon the surface of a highway within an area
designated by traffic-control devices, but apply to those persons and vehicles
when traveling to or from that work.
   (b)   The driver of a highway maintenance vehicle owned by this state or any
political subdivision of this state, while the driver is engaged in the
performance of official duties upon a street or highway, provided the highway
maintenance vehicle is equipped with flashing lights and any other markings as
are required by law and the lights are in operation when the driver and vehicle
are so engaged, shall be exempt from criminal prosecution for violations of
R.C. § 4511.22, 4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.33,
4511.35, 4511.66, 4513.02 and 5577.01 to 5577.09, and any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (c)   (1)   This section does not exempt a driver of a highway maintenance
vehicle from civil liability arising from a violation of R.C. § 4511.22,
4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.33, 4511.35, 4511.66
or 4513.02 or 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
      (2)   This section does not exempt a driver of a vehicle who is not a
state employee and who is engaged in the transport of highway maintenance
equipment from criminal liability for a violation of R.C. § 5577.01 through
5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (d)   As used in this section, “engaged in the performance of official
duties” includes driving a highway maintenance vehicle to and from the
manufacturer or vehicle maintenance provider and transporting a highway
maintenance vehicle, equipment, or materials to and from a work location.
(R.C. § 4511.04)
§ 404.04 EMERGENCY, PUBLIC SAFETY AND CORONERS’ VEHICLES EXCEPTED.
   (a)   The provisions of R.C. § 4511.12, 4511.13, 4511.131, 4511.132,
4511.14, 4511.202, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.22, 4511.23, 4511.25, 4511.26,
4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33, 4511.34,
4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40, 4511.41, 4511.42,
4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.432, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59,
4511.60, 4511.61, 4511.62, 4511.66, 4511.68, 4511.681 and 4511.69, and any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, do not apply to the driver of an
emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle if the emergency vehicle or public
safety vehicle is responding to an emergency call, is equipped with and
displaying at least one flashing, rotating or oscillating light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle and if the driver of the vehicles is giving an audible signal by siren,
exhaust whistle or bell. This section does not relieve the driver of an
emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.041)
   (b)   The provisions of R.C. § 4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29,
4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38 and
4511.66, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, do not apply to
a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle
in accordance with R.C. § 4513.171 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance. This division does not relieve a coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle from the duty to drive with
due regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.042)
§ 404.05 APPLICATION TO PERSONS RIDING, DRIVING ANIMALS UPON ROADWAY.
   Every person riding, driving or leading an animal upon a roadway is subject
to the provisions of this traffic code, applicable to the driver of a vehicle,
except those provisions of this traffic code which by their nature are
inapplicable.
(R.C. § 4511.05)
§ 404.06 APPLICATION TO DRIVERS OF GOVERNMENT VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this traffic code applicable to the drivers of vehicles
shall apply to the drivers of all vehicles owned or operated by the United
States, any state or any political subdivision thereof, including this
municipality, except as may be otherwise provided by law and subject to such
specific exceptions as are set forth with reference to authorized emergency and
public safety vehicles.
§ 404.07 IMPOUNDING OF VEHICLES; REDEMPTION.
   (a)   Police officers are authorized to provide for the removal and
impounding of a vehicle under the following circumstances:
      (1)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon any street, bridge or
causeway and is so illegally parked so as to constitute a hazard or obstruction
to the normal movement of traffic, or so as to unreasonably interfere with
street cleaning or snow removal operations;
      (2)   When any motor vehicle, including an abandoned junk motor vehicle,
as defined in R.C. § 4513.63, is left on private residential property, as
defined in R.C. § 4513.60, or on private agricultural property, for at least
four consecutive hours without the permission of the person having the right to
the possession of the property, or on a public street or other property open to
the public for purposes of vehicular travel, or upon or within the right-of-way
of any road or highway, for 48 consecutive hours or longer, without
notification to the Police Chief of the reasons for leaving the vehicle in that
place, except that when such a motor vehicle constitutes an obstruction to
traffic, it may be ordered into storage immediately;
      (3)   When any vehicle has been stolen or operated without the consent of
the owner;
      (4)   When any vehicle displays illegal license plates or fails to
display the current lawfully required license plates;
      (5)   When any vehicle has been used in or connected with the commission
of a felony;
      (6)   When any vehicle has been damaged or wrecked so as to be inoperable
or violates equipment provisions of this traffic code whereby its continued
operation would constitute a condition hazardous to life, limb or property;
      (7)   When any vehicle is left unattended due to the removal of an ill,
injured or arrested operator;
      (8)   When any vehicle has been operated by any person who has failed to
stop in case of an accident or collision;
      (9)   When any vehicle has been operated by any person who is driving
without a lawful license or while his or her license has been suspended or
revoked;
      (10)   When any vehicle is found for which two or more citation tags for
violations of this traffic code have been issued and the owner or operator
thereof has failed to respond to the citation tags as lawfully required.
   (b)   Any vehicle removed under authority of division (a)(2) of this section
shall be ordered into storage and/or disposed of as provided under R.C. §
4513.60 et seq. Any other vehicle removed under authority of this section shall
be ordered into storage and the Police Department shall forthwith notify the
registered vehicle owner of the fact of the removal and impounding, reasons
therefor and the place of storage. Any person desiring to redeem an impounded
vehicle shall appear at the Police Department to furnish satisfactory evidence
of identity and ownership or right to possession. Prior to issuance of a
release form, the claimant, owner or operator shall either pay the amount due
for any fines for violations on account of which the vehicle was impounded or,
as the court may require, post a bond in an amount set by the court, to appear
to answer to the violations. The pound operator shall release the vehicle upon
the receipt of the release form and payment of all towage and storage charges.
   (c)   No owner or operator shall remove an impounded vehicle from the place
of storage without complying with the above procedure. Possession of a vehicle
which has been impounded and unlawfully taken from the place of storage, by the
owner or operator, shall constitute prima facie evidence that it was so removed
by the owner or operator.
§ 404.08 TRAFFIC DIRECTION IN EMERGENCIES; OBEDIENCE TO SCHOOL GUARDS.
   (a)   Police officers shall direct or regulate traffic in accordance with
the provisions of this traffic code, provided that, in the event of fire or
other emergency or to expedite traffic or safeguard pedestrians, they are
authorized to direct traffic as conditions may require notwithstanding the
provisions of this traffic code. Firefighters, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct or assist the police in directing traffic thereat or in the immediate
vicinity. The direction of traffic may be by word or audible signal, by gesture
or visible signal or by any combination thereof. No person shall fail to comply
with any lawful order or direction of any police officer or firefighter issued
pursuant to this section.
   (b)   No person shall fail to comply with any lawful order or direction of
any school crossing guard invested with authority to direct, control or
regulate traffic in the vicinity of the school to which the guard may be
assigned.
§ 404.09 FURNISHING FALSE INFORMATION INCIDENT TO TRAFFIC CITATION.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly present, display or orally communicate a
false name, Social Security number or date of birth to a law enforcement
officer who is in the process of issuing to the person a traffic ticket or
complaint.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4513.361)
§ 404.99 PENALTY.
Editor’s note:
   See §§
408.01 and
408.02 for general traffic code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
CHAPTER 406: TRAFFIC CONTROL
Section
406.01   Authority and considerations for placement of devices.
406.02   Conformity with State Manual.
406.03   Powers of designated person.
406.04   Posting of signs and signals required.
406.05   Designated person’s powers not limited.
406.06   Records of designated person.
406.07   Reservation of power to Council.
406.08   Violations subject to general code penalty.
Cross-reference:
   Traffic-control devices defined, see §
402.01
Statutory references:
   Alteration of prima facie speed limits, see R.C. § 4511.21, 4511.22, 4511.23
   Designation of through streets and erection of stop or yield signs, see R.C.
§ 4511.65
   Placing and maintaining local traffic-control devices, see R.C. § 4511.10,
4511.11
   Power to designate highway as a freeway, expressway or thruway, see R.C. §
4511.011
   Power to erect stop signs at grade crossings, see R.C. § 4511.61
   Uniform system of traffic-control devices, see R.C. § 4511.09, 4511.11
§ 406.01 AUTHORITY AND CONSIDERATIONS FOR PLACEMENT OF DEVICES.
   Council may designate a person to place and maintain traffic-control devices
upon any street or highway under municipal jurisdiction as are necessary to
effectuate the provisions of this traffic code, or to regulate, warn or guide
traffic, and such other traffic-control devices as the person shall deem
necessary for the proper control of traffic. The designated person shall
determine the location, timing and coordination of the traffic-control devices
upon the basis of an applicable engineering or traffic investigation and shall
consider the following:
   (a)   The maximum safety and protection of vehicular and pedestrian traffic
from physical injury or property damage;
   (b)   The existing and potential traffic movement, volume and conditions;
   (c)   The location and frequency of accidents, including studies of remedial
measures;
   (d)   The recommendations of the Chief of Police and Fire Chief;
   (e)   The acceleration of transportation of persons and property by vehicles
so as to expedite travel and promote public safety;
   (f)   The convenience and welfare of the general public in parking,
standing, loading and unloading, and the use of the streets as affecting
business concerns and places of assembly; and
   (g)   Economy in the expenditure of money.
§ 406.02 CONFORMITY WITH STATE MANUAL.
   All traffic-control devices placed pursuant to the provisions of this
traffic code shall conform to the Ohio Manual and Specifications for a Uniform
System of Traffic-Control Devices, as adopted under R.C. § 4511.09.
§ 406.03 POWERS OF DESIGNATED PERSON.
   The person designated by Council pursuant to §
406.01 is hereby authorized to:
   (a)   Designate any street or highway as a through street or highway and
require that all vehicles stop or yield the right-of-way as may be required
before entering the same;
   (b)   Designate any intersection as a stop intersection and require all
vehicles to stop at one or more entrances to the intersection;
   (c)   Designate any intersection as a yield intersection and require all
vehicles to yield the right- of-way as required;
   (d)   Designate any street as a one-way street and require that all vehicles
thereon be moved in one specific direction;
   (e)   Designate and mark lanes to be used by traffic moving in a particular
direction regardless of the centerline of the roadway;
   (f)   Erect signs directing slow-moving traffic to use a designated lane or
allocating specified lanes to traffic moving in the same direction;
   (g)   Designate those portions of any street, where overtaking and passing
other traffic or driving to the left of the center or centerline of the roadway
would be especially hazardous, by appropriate signs or markings on the street
to indicate the beginning and end of such zones. These zones may be marked by
an auxiliary yellow line placed parallel and to the right of the normal
centerline or offset marked lane line;
   (h)   Place markers, buttons or signs within or adjacent to intersections
and require that a specific course of direction be traveled by vehicles
proceeding in lanes by either permitting, prohibiting or requiring turns at the
intersections;
   (i)   Install traffic-control devices, signals and signs at any location to
regulate traffic;
   (j)   Establish safety zones, crosswalks, zones of quiet and play streets;
   (k)   Close any street or portion thereof to vehicular traffic which is in
the process of construction, reconstruction or repair;
   (l)   Determine the location of any necessary bus stops and taxicab stands;
   (m)   Determine the location and limiting hours of truck loading zones;
   (n)   Designate dangerous railroad crossings and erect stop signs thereat;
   (o)   Erect “No U Turn” signs at any location to prohibit a vehicle from
being turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction;
   (p)   Regulate or prohibit the stopping, standing and parking of vehicles on
streets, alleys or public property by erecting signs plainly indicating the
prohibitions, restrictions or limitations;
   (q)   Designate individual parking spaces by markings, which may either be
parallel or at a prescribed angle to the curb or edge of the roadway.
§ 406.04 POSTING OF SIGNS AND SIGNALS REQUIRED.
   No provision of this chapter shall be effective until signs, signals,
markings or other devices giving notice of the local traffic regulations are
posted upon or at the entrance to the street or part thereof affected, as may
be most appropriate, so that in a proper position they are sufficiently legible
to be seen by an ordinarily observant person.
§ 406.05 DESIGNATED PERSON’S POWERS NOT LIMITED.
   The powers of the person designated by Council pursuant to §
406.01 shall not be limited by the specific enumeration of subjects contained
in this chapter.
§ 406.06 RECORDS OF DESIGNATED PERSON.
   The person designated by Council pursuant to §
406.01 shall keep a record of all rules, regulations and proceedings
promulgated in connection with this chapter.
§ 406.07 RESERVATION OF POWER TO COUNCIL.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter, Council may override any
decision of the person designated by Council pursuant to §
406.01 and may assume any of the powers delegated to the person, by a
resolution adopted by a vote of a majority of the members duly elected thereto.
Upon the adoption of any such resolution, the same may be changed only by an
amending or repealing resolution adopted by Council.
§ 406.08 VIOLATIONS SUBJECT TO GENERAL CODE PENALTY.
   Any person violating the rules and regulations promulgated in connection
with this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof shall be subject to the penalties provided for in §§
408.01 and 408.02.
CHAPTER 408: PENALTIES
Section
408.01   Penalties for misdemeanor.
408.02   General code penalty.
408.03   Suspension of driver’s license.
Cross-references:
   Definition of “dangerous offender”, see §
698.01
   Definition of “repeat offender”, see §
698.01
   Imposing sentence for misdemeanor, see §
698.03
   Multiple sentences, see §
698.05
   Organizational penalties, see §
698.04
Statutory references:
   Criteria for probation; conditions for probation, see R.C. § 2951.02
   Definition of “imprisoned”, see R.C. § 1.05
   Satisfaction of fine; credit for time served, see R.C. § 2947.14
§ 408.01 PENALTIES FOR MISDEMEANOR.
   Whoever is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor or minor
misdemeanor shall be sentenced in accordance with §
698.02.
§ 408.02 GENERAL CODE PENALTY.
   (a)   Whoever violates any provision of this traffic code for which no
penalty otherwise is provided in the section violated is guilty of one of the
following:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this
section, a minor misdemeanor;
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
      (3)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more predicate motor vehicle or
traffic offenses, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.99)
   (b)   Violations committed while distracted.
      (1)   As used in this section and each section referenced in division (b)
(2) of this section, all of the following apply:
         A.   “Distracted” means doing either of the following while operating
a vehicle:
            1.   Using a handheld electronic wireless communications device, as
defined in R.C. § 4511.204, except when utilizing any of the following:
               a.   The device’s speakerphone function;
               b.   A wireless technology standard for exchanging data over
short distances;
               c.   A “voice-operated or hands-free” device that allows the
person to use the electronic wireless communications device without the use of
either hand except to activate, deactivate, or initiate a feature or function;
               d.   Any device that is physically or electronically integrated
into the motor vehicle.
            2.   Engaging in any activity that is not necessary to the
operation of a vehicle and impairs, or reasonably would be expected to impair,
the ability of the operator to drive the vehicle safely.
         B.   “Distracted” does not include operating a motor vehicle while
wearing an earphone or earplug over or in both ears at the same time. A person
who so wears earphones or earplugs may be charged with a violation of R.C. §
4511.84, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
         C.   “Distracted” does not include conducting any activity while
operating a utility service vehicle or a vehicle for or on behalf of a utility,
provided that the driver of the vehicle is acting in response to an emergency,
power outage, or a circumstance affecting the health or safety of individuals.
As used in this division (b)(1)C.:
            1.   “Utility” means an entity specified in R.C. § 4905.03(A), (C),
(D), (E), or (G).
            2.   “Utility service vehicle” means a vehicle owned or operated by
a utility.
      (2)   If an offender violates R.C. § 4511.03, 4511.051, 4511.12,
4511.121, 4511.132, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.213, 4511.22, 4511.23, 4511.25,
4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33,
4511.34, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40, 4511.41,
4511.42, 4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.451, 4511.46, 4511.47,
4511.54, 4511.55, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59, 4511.60, 4511.61, 4511.64,
4511.71, 4511.711, 4511.712, 4511.713, 4511.72, or 4511.73, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the
violation, the offender is subject to the applicable penalty for the violation
and, notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28, is subject to an additional fine of not
more than $100 as follows:
         A.   1.   Subject to Traffic Rule 13, if a law enforcement officer
issues an offender a ticket, citation, or summons for a violation of any of the
aforementioned sections of the Ohio Revised Code, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that indicates that the offender was distracted
while committing the violation and that the distracting activity was a
contributing factor to the commission of the violation, the offender may enter
a written plea of guilty and waive the offender’s right to contest the ticket,
citation, or summons in a trial provided that the offender pays the total
amount of the fine established for the violation and pays the additional fine
of $100.
            2.   In lieu of payment of the additional fine of $100, the
offender instead may elect to attend a distracted driving safety course, the
duration and contents of which shall be established by the Ohio Director of
Public Safety. If the offender attends and successfully completes the course,
the offender shall be issued written evidence that the offender successfully
completed the course. The offender shall be required to pay the total amount of
the fine established for the violation, but shall not be required to pay the
additional fine of $100, so long as the offender submits to the court both the
offender’s payment in full and such written evidence.
         B.   1.   If the offender appears in person to contest the ticket,
citation, or summons in a trial and the offender pleads guilty to or is
convicted of the violation, the court, in addition to all other penalties
provided by law, may impose the applicable penalty for the violation and may
impose the additional fine of not more than $100.
            2.   If the court imposes upon the offender the applicable penalty
for the violation and an additional fine of not more than $100, the court shall
inform the offender that, in lieu of payment of the additional fine of not more
than $100, the offender instead may elect to attend the distracted driving
safety course described in division (b)(2)A. of this section. If the offender
elects the course option and attends and successfully completes the course, the
offender shall be issued written evidence that the offender successfully
completed the course. The offender shall be required to pay the total amount of
the fine established for the violation, but shall not be required to pay the
additional fine of not more than $100, so long as the offender submits to the
court the offender’s payment and such written evidence.
(R.C. § 4511.991)
§ 408.03 SUSPENSION OF DRIVER’S LICENSE.
   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 4510.07 or in any other provision of
the Revised Code, whenever an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
violation of any provision of this traffic code that is substantially
equivalent to a provision of the Revised Code, and a court is permitted or
required to suspend a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit for a violation of that provision, a court, in addition to any other
penalties authorized by law, may suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege for the period of
time the court determines appropriate, but the period of suspension imposed for
the violation of the provision of this traffic code shall not exceed the period
of suspension that is permitted or required to be imposed for the violation of
the provision of the Revised Code to which the provision of this traffic code
is substantially equivalent.
(R.C. § 4510.05)
TITLE FOUR: PUBLIC WAYS AND TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
CHAPTER 412: OBSTRUCTION AND SPECIAL USES OF PUBLIC WAYS
Section
412.01   Placing injurious material or obstruction in street.
412.02   Reserved.
412.03   Play streets.
412.04   Toy vehicles on roadway.
412.05   Freeway use prohibited by pedestrians, bicycles and animals.
412.99   Penalty.
Cross-reference:
   Loads dropping or leaking; tracking mud; removal required, see §
440.06
   Parking in alleys or narrow streets; exceptions, see §
452.12
   Selling, washing or repairing vehicle upon roadway, see §
452.09
   Sidewalk obstructions; damage or injury, see §
660.10
Statutory reference:
   Power to regulate processions or assemblages, see R.C. § 4511.07
§ 412.01 PLACING INJURIOUS MATERIAL OR OBSTRUCTION IN STREET.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a
highway, lane, road, street or alley any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails or
other articles which may damage or injure any person, vehicle or animal
traveling along or upon the highway, except such substances that may be placed
upon the roadway by proper authority for the repair or construction thereof.
      (2)   Any person who drops or permits to be dropped or thrown upon any
highway any destructive or injurious material shall immediately remove the
same.
      (3)   Any person authorized to remove a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a
highway shall remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the
highway from the vehicle.
      (4)   No person shall place any obstruction in or upon a highway without
proper authority.
   (b)   No person, with intent to cause physical harm to a person or a
vehicle, shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a highway, lane, road,
street or alley any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails or other articles which
may damage or injure any person, vehicle or animal traveling along or upon the
highway, except substances that may be placed upon the roadway by proper
authority for the repair or construction thereof.
   (c)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (a) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (a) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
division (a) is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4511.74)
§ 412.02 RESERVED.
§ 412.03 PLAY STREETS.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that any street or part
thereof is a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon any such street
or portion thereof except drivers of vehicles having business or whose
residences are within the closed area and then the drivers shall exercise the
greatest care in driving upon any such street or portion thereof.
§ 412.04 TOY VEHICLES ON ROADWAY.
   No person riding upon any coaster, roller skates, sled, toy vehicle or other
similar device shall go upon any roadway except while crossing a street on a
crosswalk, and when so crossing the person shall be granted all of the rights
and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to pedestrians. This
section shall not apply to any street set aside as a play street.
§ 412.05 FREEWAY USE PROHIBITED BY PEDESTRIANS, BICYCLES AND ANIMALS.
   (a)   No person, unless otherwise directed by a police officer, shall:
      (1)   As a pedestrian, occupy any space within the limits of the right-
of-way of a freeway, except: in a rest area; on a facility that is separated
from the roadway and shoulders of the freeway and is designed and appropriately
marked for pedestrian use; in the performance of public works or official
duties; as a result of an emergency caused by an accident or breakdown of a
motor vehicle; or to obtain assistance.
      (2)   Occupy any space within the limits of the right-of-way of a
freeway, with: an animal-drawn vehicle; a ridden or led animal; herded animals;
a pushcart; a bicycle, except on a facility that is separated from the roadway
and shoulders of the freeway and is designed and appropriately marked for
bicycle use; an electric bicycle; a bicycle with motor attached; a motor-driven
cycle with a motor which produces not to exceed five brake horsepower; an
agricultural tractor; farm machinery; except in the performance of public works
or official duties.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.051)
§ 412.99 PENALTY.
Editor’s note:
   See §§
408.01 and
408.02 for general traffic code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
CHAPTER 414: TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
Section
414.01   Obedience to traffic-control devices.
414.02   Through streets; stop and yield right-of-way signs.
414.03   Traffic-control signal terms and lights.
414.04   Signal to control lane direction of travel.
414.05   Pedestrian control signals.
414.06   Reserved.
414.07   Unauthorized signs and signals, hiding from view, advertising.
414.08   Alteration, injury, removal of traffic-control devices.
414.09   Unauthorized possession or sale of devices.
414.10   Signal preemption devices; prohibitions.
414.99   Penalty.
Cross-references:
   Authority and considerations for placing of devices, see §
406.01
   Criminal mischief (tampering), see §
642.09
   Intersections at which traffic-control signals fail or malfunction, see §
432.16
   Posting of signs and signals required, see §
406.04
   Traffic-control devices defined, see §
402.01
   Uniform system of traffic-control devices, see §
406.02
Statutory references:
   Designation of through streets or stop intersections, see R.C. § 4511.07,
4511.65
   Traffic law photo-monitoring devices, state regulations, see R.C. § 4511.092
et seq.
   Placing and maintaining local traffic-control devices, see R.C. § 4511.10,
4511.11
   Uniform system of traffic-control devices, see R.C. § 4511.09, 4511.11
§ 414.01 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (a)   (1)   No pedestrian or driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
instructions of any traffic- control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code, unless at the time otherwise directed by a
police officer.
      (2)   No provision of this traffic code for which signs are required
shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the
alleged violation, an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently
legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular
section of this traffic code does not state that signs are required, that
section shall be effective even though no signs are erected or in place.
(R.C. § 4511.12(A))
   (b)   (1)   Except as provided in division (c) of this section, any operator
of a commercial motor vehicle, upon approaching a scale location established
for the purpose of determining the weight of the vehicle and its load, shall
comply with any traffic-control device or the order of a peace officer
directing the vehicle to proceed to be weighed or otherwise inspected.
      (2)   Any operator of a commercial motor vehicle, upon bypassing a scale
location in accordance with division (c) of this section, shall comply with an
order of a peace officer to stop the vehicle to verify the use and operation of
an electronic clearance device.
   (c)   Any operator of a commercial motor vehicle that is equipped with an
electronic clearance device authorized by the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol under R.C. § 4549.081 may bypass a scale location, regardless of
the instruction of a traffic-control device to enter the scale facility, if
either of the following apply:
      (1)   The in-cab transponder displays a green light or other affirmative
visual signal and also sounds an affirmative audible signal;
      (2)   Any other criterion established by the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol is met.
   (d)   Any peace officer may order the operator of a commercial motor vehicle
that bypasses a scale location to stop the vehicle to verify the use and
operation of an electronic clearance device.
   (e)   As used in this section, “commercial motor vehicle” means any
combination of vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating or an actual gross
vehicle weight of more than 10,000 pounds if the vehicle is used in interstate
or intrastate commerce to transport property and also means any vehicle that is
transporting hazardous materials for which placarding is required pursuant to
49 C.F.R. Parts 100 to 180.
(R.C. § 4511.121(A) - (C), (E))
   (f)   No person shall use an electronic clearance device if the device or
its use is not in compliance with rules of the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol.
(R.C. § 4549.081(B))
   (g)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (a) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (a) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
division (a) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree. If
the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting activity
is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the offender is
subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.12(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (b) of this
section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of division (b)
of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender commits the offense while
distracted and the distracting activity is a contributing factor to the
commission of the offense, the offender is subject to the additional fine
established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.121(D))
      (3)   Whoever violates division (f) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the
third degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.081(C))
§ 414.02 THROUGH STREETS; STOP AND YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY SIGNS.
   (a)   All state routes are hereby designated as through highways, provided
that stop signs, yield signs or traffic-control signals shall be erected at all
intersections with such through highways by the Department of Transportation as
to highways under its jurisdiction and by local authorities as to highways
under their jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this section. Where
two or more state routes that are through highways intersect, and no traffic-
control signal is in operation, stop signs or yield signs shall be erected at
one or more entrances thereto by the Department or by local authorities having
jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this section. Whenever the
Director of Transportation determines on the basis of an engineering and
traffic investigation that stop signs are necessary to stop traffic on a
through highway for safe and efficient operation, nothing in this section shall
be construed to prevent the installations. When circumstances warrant, the
Director also may omit stop signs on roadways intersecting through highways
under his or her jurisdiction. Before the Director either installs or removes a
stop sign under this division, he or she shall give notice, in writing, of that
proposed action to the affected local authority at least 30 days before
installing or removing the stop sign.
   (b)   Other streets or highways, or portions thereof, are hereby designated
as through highways if they are within the municipality, if they have a
continuous length of more than one mile between the limits of the street or
highway or portion thereof, and if they have stop or yield signs or traffic-
control signals at the entrances of the majority of intersecting streets or
highways. For purposes of this section, the limits of the street or highway, or
portion thereof, shall be the municipal corporation line, the physical terminus
of the street or highway, or any point on the streets or highway at which
vehicular traffic thereon is required by regulatory signs to stop or yield to
traffic on the intersecting street, provided, that in residence districts, the
municipality may by ordinance designate the street or highway, or portion
thereof, not to be a through highway and thereafter the affected residence
district shall be indicated by official traffic-control devices. Where two or
more through highways designated under this division intersect and no traffic-
control signal is in operation, stop signs or yield signs shall be erected at
one or more entrances thereto by the Department or by local authorities having
jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this section.
   (c)   The Department or local authorities having jurisdiction need not erect
stop signs at intersections they find to be so constructed as to permit traffic
to safely enter a through highway without coming to a stop. Signs shall be
erected at such intersections indicating that the operator of a vehicle shall
yield the right-of-way to or merge with all traffic proceeding on the through
highway.
   (d)   Local authorities, with reference to highways under their
jurisdiction, may designate additional through highways, and shall erect stop
signs, yield signs or traffic-control signals at all streets and highways
intersecting the through highways, or may designate any intersection as a stop
or yield intersection, and shall erect like signs at one or more entrances to
the intersection.
(R.C. § 4511.65)
§ 414.03 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL TERMS AND LIGHTS.
   Highway traffic signal indications for vehicles and pedestrians shall have
the following meanings:
   (a)   Steady Green Signal Indication.
      (1)   A.   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal indication
are permitted to proceed straight through or turn right or left or make a u-
turn movement except as such movement is modified by a lane-use sign, turn
prohibition sign, lane marking, roadway design, separate turn signal
indication, or other traffic control device. Such vehicular traffic, including
vehicles turning right or left or making a u-turn movement, shall yield the
right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         B.   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
movement to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching
from the opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard
during the time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the
intersection.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal indication, displayed
alone or in combination with another signal indication, are permitted to
cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by such
arrow, or such other movement as is permitted by other indications displayed at
the same time. Such vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left
or making a u-turn movement, shall yield the right-of-way to both of the
following:
         A.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
         B.   Other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (3)   A.   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication,
as provided in R.C. § 4511.14, pedestrians facing a circular green signal
indication are permitted to proceed across the roadway within any marked or
unmarked associated crosswalk. The pedestrian shall yield the right-of- way to
vehicles lawfully within the intersection or so close as to create an immediate
hazard at the time that the green signal indication is first displayed.
         B.   Pedestrians facing a green arrow signal indication, unless
otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or other traffic control
device, shall not cross the roadway.
   (b)   Steady Yellow Signal Indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular yellow signal indication
are thereby warned that the related green movement or the related flashing
arrow movement is being terminated or that a steady red signal indication will
be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter the
intersection. The provisions governing vehicular operation under the movement
being terminated shall continue to apply while the steady circular yellow
signal indication is displayed.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow arrow signal indication is
thereby warned that the related green arrow movement or the related flashing
arrow movement is being terminated. The provisions governing vehicular
operation under the movement being terminated shall continue to apply while the
steady yellow arrow signal indication is displayed.
      (3)   Pedestrians facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow signal
indication, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication as
provided in R.C. § 4511.14 or other traffic control device, shall not start to
cross the roadway.
   (c)   Steady Red Signal Indication.
      (1)   A.   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular red signal
indication, unless entering the intersection to make another movement permitted
by another signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line; but if
there is no stop line, traffic shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the
near side of the intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, then before
entering the intersection; and shall remain stopped until a signal indication
to proceed is displayed except as provided in divisions (c)(1), (c)(2), and (c)
(3) of this section.
         B.   Except when a traffic control device is in place prohibiting a
turn on red or a steady red arrow signal indication is displayed, vehicular
traffic facing a steady circular red signal indication is permitted, after
stopping, to enter the intersection to turn right, or to turn left from a one-
way street into a one-way street. The right to proceed with the turn shall be
subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop at a stop
sign.
      (2)   A.   Vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow signal indication
shall not enter the intersection to make the movement indicated by the arrow
and, unless entering the intersection to make another movement permitted by
another signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line; but if
there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, then before entering the
intersection; and shall remain stopped until a signal indication or other
traffic control device permitting the movement indicated by such red arrow is
displayed.
         B.   When a traffic control device is in place permitting a turn on a
steady red arrow signal indication, vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow
indication is permitted, after stopping, to enter the intersection to turn
right, or to turn left from a one-way street into a one-way street. The right
to proceed with the turn shall be limited to the direction indicated by the
arrow and shall be subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a
stop at a stop sign.
      (3)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication as
provided in R.C. § 4511.14 or other traffic control device, pedestrians facing
a steady circular red or steady red arrow signal indication shall not enter the
roadway.
      (4)   Local authorities by ordinance, or the Director of Transportation
on state highways, may prohibit a right or a left turn against a steady red
signal at any intersection, which shall be effective when signs giving notice
thereof are posted at the intersection.
   (d)   Flashing Green Signal Indication. A flashing green signal indication
has no meaning and shall not be used.
   (e)   Flashing Yellow Signal Indication.
      (1)   A.   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing a
flashing circular yellow signal indication, is permitted to cautiously enter
the intersection to proceed straight through or turn right or left or make a u-
turn movement except as such movement is modified by lane- use signs, turn
prohibition signs, lane markings, roadway design, separate turn signal
indications, or other traffic control devices. Such vehicular traffic,
including vehicles turning right or left or making a u-turn movement, shall
yield the right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         B.   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn to
the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the
time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the intersection.
      (2)   A.   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing a
flashing yellow arrow signal indication, displayed alone or in combination with
another signal indication, is permitted to cautiously enter the intersection
only to make the movement indicated by such arrow, or other such movement as is
permitted by other signal indications displayed at the same time. Such
vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left or making a u-turn,
shall yield the right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         B.   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn to
the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the
time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the intersection.
      (3)   Pedestrians facing any flashing yellow signal indication at an
intersection, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or
other traffic control device, are permitted to proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk. Pedestrians shall yield the
right-of-way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing yellow signal indication is first displayed.
      (4)   When a flashing circular yellow signal indication is displayed as a
beacon to supplement another traffic control device, road users are notified
that there is a need to pay additional attention to the message contained
thereon or that the regulatory or warning requirements of the other traffic
control device, which might not be applicable at all times, are currently
applicable.
   (f)   Flashing Red Signal Indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing a
flashing circular red signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line; but if there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near
side of the intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection. The right to proceed
shall be subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop at a
stop sign.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing any flashing red signal indication at an
intersection, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or
other traffic control device, are permitted to proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk. Pedestrians shall yield the
right-of-way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing red signal indication is first displayed.
      (3)   When a flashing circular red signal indication is displayed as a
beacon to supplement another traffic control device, road users are notified
that there is a need to pay additional attention to the message contained
thereon or that the regulatory requirements of the other traffic control
device, which might not be applicable at all times, are currently applicable.
Use of this signal indication shall be limited to supplementing stop, do not
enter, or wrong way signs, and to applications where compliance with the
supplemented traffic control device requires a stop at a designated point.
   (g)   In the event an official traffic-control signal is erected and
maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
section shall be applicable except as to those provisions which by their nature
can have no application. Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking
on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of
any such sign or marking the stop shall be made at the signal.
   (h)   This section does not apply at railroad grade crossings. Conduct of
drivers of vehicles approaching railroad grade crossings shall be governed by
R.C. § 4511.61 and 4511.62.
(R.C. § 4511.13)
§ 414.04 SIGNAL TO CONTROL LANE DIRECTION OF TRAVEL.
   The meanings of lane-use control signal indications are as follows:
   (a)   A Steady Downward Green Arrow. A road user is permitted to drive in
the lane over which the arrow signal indication is located.
   (b)   A Steady Yellow “X”. A road user is to prepare to vacate the lane over
which the signal indication is located because a lane control change is being
made to a steady red “X” signal indication.
   (c)   A Steady White Two-Way Left-Turn Arrow. A road user is permitted to
use a lane over which the signal indication is located for a left turn, but not
for through travel, with the understanding that common use of the lane by
oncoming road users for left turns also is permitted.
   (d)   A Steady White One-Way Left-Turn Arrow. A road user is permitted to
use a lane over which the signal indication is located for a left turn, without
opposing turns in the same lane, but not for through travel.
   (e)   A Steady Red “X”. A road user is not permitted to use the lane over
which the signal indication is located and that this signal indication shall
modify accordingly the meaning of other traffic controls present.
(R.C. § 4511.131)
§ 414.05 PEDESTRIAN CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian-control signals exhibiting the words “walk” or
“don’t walk”, or the symbol of a walking person or an upraised palm are in
place, these signals shall indicate the following instructions:
   (a)   A steady walking person signal indication, which symbolizes “walk”,
means that a pedestrian facing the signal indication is permitted to start to
cross the roadway in the direction of the signal indication, possibly in
conflict with turning vehicles. The pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the walking person
signal indication is first shown.
   (b)   A flashing upraised hand signal indication, which symbolizes “don’t
walk”, means that a pedestrian shall not start to cross the roadway in the
direction of the signal indication, but that any pedestrian who has already
started to cross on a steady walking person signal indication shall proceed to
the far side of the traveled way of the street or highway, unless otherwise
directed by a traffic control device to proceed only to the median of a divided
highway or only to some other island or pedestrian refuge area.
   (c)   A steady upraised hand signal indication means that a pedestrian shall
not enter the roadway in the direction of the signal indication.
   (d)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to invalidate the continued
use of pedestrian control signals utilizing the word “wait” if those signals
were installed prior to March 28, 1985.
   (e)   A flashing walking person signal indication has no meaning and shall
not be used.
(R.C. § 4511.14)
§ 414.06 RESERVED.
§ 414.07 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS AND SIGNALS, HIDING FROM VIEW, ADVERTISING.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of
any highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to
be, is an imitation of or resembles a traffic-control device or railroad sign
or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or hides from
view or interferes with the effectiveness of any traffic-control device or any
railroad sign or signal; and no person shall place or maintain, nor shall any
public authority permit, upon any highway, any traffic sign or signal bearing
thereon any commercial advertising. This section does not prohibit either the
erection upon private property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful
directional information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for traffic-
control devices, or the erection upon private property of traffic-control
devices by the owner of real property in accordance with R.C. § 4511.211 and
4511.432.
      (2)   Every prohibited sign, signal, marking or device is a public
nuisance, and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway may remove the
same or cause it to be removed.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.16)
§ 414.08 ALTERATION, INJURY, REMOVAL OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (a)   No person, without lawful authority, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly move, deface, damage, destroy or otherwise improperly
tamper with any traffic-control device, any railroad sign or signal, or any
inscription, shield or insignia on the device, sign or signal, or any part of
the device, sign or signal;
      (2)   Knowingly drive upon or over any freshly applied pavement marking
material on the surface of a roadway while the marking material is in an
undried condition, and is marked by flags, markers, signs or other devices
intended to protect it;
      (3)   Knowingly move, damage, destroy or otherwise improperly tamper with
a manhole cover.
   (b)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (a)(1) or (a)(3) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
third degree. If a violation of division (a)(1) or (a)(3) of this section
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If a violation of division (a)(1) or (a)(3) of
this section causes serious physical harm to property that is owned, leased, or
controlled by a state or local authority, the offender is guilty of a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (a)(2) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within
one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates division (a)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses,
whoever violates division (a)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.17)
§ 414.09 UNAUTHORIZED POSSESSION OR SALE OF DEVICES.
   (a)   As used in this section, “traffic-control device” means any sign,
traffic-control signal or other device conforming to and placed or erected in
accordance with the manual adopted under R.C. § 4511.09 by authority of a
public body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic, including signs denoting the names of streets and
highways, but does not mean any pavement marking.
   (b)   No individual shall buy or otherwise possess, or sell, a traffic-
control device, except when one of the following applies:
      (1)   In the course of the individual’s employment by the state or a
local authority for the express or implied purpose of manufacturing, providing,
erecting, moving or removing such a traffic- control device;
      (2)   In the course of the individual’s employment by any manufacturer of
traffic-control devices other than a state or local authority;
      (3)   For the purpose of demonstrating the design and function of a
traffic-control device to state or local officials;
      (4)   When the traffic-control device has been purchased from the state
or a local authority at a sale of property that is no longer needed or is unfit
for use; or
      (5)   When the traffic-control device has been properly purchased from a
manufacturer for use on private property and the person possessing the device
has a sales receipt for the device or other acknowledgment of sale issued by
the manufacturer.
   (c)   This section does not preclude, and shall not be construed as
precluding, prosecution for theft in violation of R.C. § 2913.02, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or for receiving stolen property
in violation of R.C. § 2913.51, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.18)
§ 414.10 SIGNAL PREEMPTION DEVICES; PROHIBITIONS.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall possess a portable signal preemption device.
      (2)   No person shall use a portable signal preemption device to affect
the operation of a traffic-control device.
   (b)   Division (a)(1) of this section does not apply to any of the following
persons and division (a)(2) of this section does not apply to any of the
following persons when responding to an emergency call:
      (1)   A peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 109.71(A)(1), (A)(12), (A)
(14) or (A)(19);
      (2)   A State Highway Patrol officer;
      (3)   A person while occupying a public safety vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 4511.01(E)(1), (E)(3) or (E)(4).
   (c)   Whoever violates division (a)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Whoever violates division (a)(2) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (d)   As used in this section, “portable signal preemption device” means a
device that, if activated by a person, is capable of changing a traffic-control
signal to green out of sequence.
(R.C. § 4511.031)
§ 414.99 PENALTY.
Editor’s note:
   See §§
408.01 and
408.02 for general traffic code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
CHAPTER 416: PEDESTRIANS
Section
416.01   Duties of pedestrians and drivers at crosswalks.
416.02   Right-of-way of blind person.
416.03   Right-of-way yielded by pedestrian; crossing roadways.
416.04   Moving in crosswalks.
416.05   Walking on sidewalks and streets.
416.06   Soliciting rides or business; riding on outside of vehicle or in cargo
storage area.
416.07   Passing through bridge signals or railroad barriers.
416.08   Right-of-way of public safety vehicles.
416.09   Right-of-way on sidewalks.
416.10   Intoxication.
416.11   Motorized wheelchair operators.
416.12   Operation of electric personal assistive mobility devices.
416.13   Operation of personal delivery device on sidewalks and crosswalks.
416.14   Low-speed micromobility devices.
 
416.99   Penalty.
Cross-reference:
   Obedience to traffic-control devices, see §
414.01
   Opening doors on side available to traffic, see §
452.08
   Pedestrian control signals, see §
414.05
   Pedestrians prohibited on freeways, see §
412.05
§ 416.01 DUTIES OF PEDESTRIANS AND DRIVERS AT CROSSWALKS.
   (a)   When traffic-control signals are not in place, not in operation or are
not clearly assigning the right-of-way, the driver of a vehicle shall yield the
right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if need be to so yield, or if required
by R.C. § 4511.132, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, to a
pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk when the pedestrian is upon
the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is traveling, or when the
pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite half of the roadway as
to be in danger.
   (b)   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and
walk or run into the path of a vehicle which is so close as to constitute an
immediate hazard.
   (c)   Division (a) of this section does not apply under the conditions
stated in R.C. § 4511.48(B), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (d)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass the stopped vehicle.
   (e)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (f)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.46)
§ 416.02 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF BLIND PERSON.
   (a)   (1)   As used in this section “blind person” or “blind pedestrian”
means a person having not more than 20/200 visual acuity in the better eye with
correcting lenses, or visual acuity greater than 20/200, but with a limitation
in the fields of vision such that the widest diameter of the visual field
subtends an angle no greater than 20 degrees.
      (2)   The driver of every vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to every
blind pedestrian guided by a guide dog, or carrying a cane which is
predominantly white or metallic in color, with or without a red tip.
   (b)   No person, other than a blind person, while on any public highway,
street, alley or other public thoroughfare, shall carry a white or metallic
cane, with or without a red tip.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (d)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.47)
§ 416.03 RIGHT-OF-WAY YIELDED BY PEDESTRIAN; CROSSING ROADWAYS.
   (a)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (b)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all traffic upon the roadway.
   (c)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
   (d)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway intersection diagonally unless
authorized by official traffic-control devices; and when authorized to cross
diagonally, pedestrians shall cross only in accordance with the official
traffic-control devices pertaining to such crossing movements.
   (e)   This section does not relieve the operator of a vehicle from
exercising due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any roadway.
   (f)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.48)
§ 416.04 MOVING IN CROSSWALKS.
   (a)   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.49)
§ 416.05 WALKING ON SIDEWALKS AND STREETS.
   (a)   Where a sidewalk is provided and its use is practicable, it shall be
unlawful for any pedestrian to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (b)   Where a sidewalk is not available, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall walk only on a shoulder, as far as practicable from the
edge of the roadway.
   (c)   Where neither a sidewalk nor a shoulder is available, any pedestrian
walking along and upon a highway shall walk as near as practicable to an
outside edge of the roadway, and, if on a two-way roadway, shall walk only on
the left side of the roadway.
   (d)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 4511.13 and 4511.46, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, any pedestrian upon a roadway
shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (e)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.50)
§ 416.06 SOLICITING RIDES OR BUSINESS; RIDING ON OUTSIDE OF VEHICLE OR IN CARGO
STORAGE AREA.
   (a)   No person while on a roadway outside a safety zone shall solicit a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
   (b)   (1)   Except as provided in division (b)(2) of this section, no person
shall stand on a highway for the purpose of soliciting employment, business or
contributions from the occupant of any vehicle.
      (2)   The Council, by ordinance, may authorize the issuance of a permit
to a charitable organization to allow a person acting on behalf of the
organization to solicit charitable contributions from the occupant of a vehicle
by standing on a highway, other than a freeway as provided in R.C. § 4511.051
(A), that is under the jurisdiction of the municipality. The permit shall be
valid for only one period of time, which shall be specified in the permit, in
any calendar year. The Council also may specify the locations where
contributions may be solicited and may impose any other restrictions on or
requirements regarding the manner in which the solicitations are to be
conducted that the Council considers advisable.
      (3)   As used in division (b)(2) of this section, “charitable
organization” means an organization that has received from the Internal Revenue
Service a currently valid ruling or determination letter recognizing the tax-
exempt status of the organization pursuant to IRC 501(c)(3).
   (c)   No person shall hang onto or ride on the outside of any motor vehicle
while it is moving upon a roadway, except mechanics or test engineers making
repairs or adjustments, or workers performing specialized highway or street
maintenance or construction under authority of a public agency.
   (d)   No operator shall knowingly permit any person to hang onto or ride on
the outside of any motor vehicle while it is moving upon a roadway, except
mechanics or test engineers making repairs or adjustments, or workers
performing specialized highway or street maintenance or construction under
authority of a public agency.
   (e)   No driver of a truck, trailer or semitrailer shall knowingly permit
any person who has not attained the age of 16 years to ride in the unenclosed
or unroofed cargo storage area of the driver’s vehicle if the vehicle is
traveling faster than 25 miles per hour, unless either of the following
applies:
      (1)   The cargo storage area of the vehicle is equipped with a properly
secured seat to which is attached a seat safety belt that is in compliance with
federal standards for an occupant restraining device as defined in R.C. §
4513.263(A)(2), the seat and seat safety belt were installed at the time the
vehicle was originally assembled, and the person riding in the cargo storage
area is in the seat and is wearing the seat safety belt; or
      (2)   An emergency exists that threatens the life of the driver or the
person being transported in the cargo storage area of the truck, trailer or
semitrailer.
   (f)   No driver of a truck, trailer or semitrailer shall permit any person,
except for those workers performing specialized highway or street maintenance
or construction under authority of a public agency, to ride in the cargo
storage area or on a tailgate of the driver’s vehicle while the tailgate is
unlatched.
   (g)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
any provision of divisions (a) to (d) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates any provision of divisions (a) to (d) of this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates any provision of divisions
(a) to (d) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (e) or (f) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.51)
§ 416.07 PASSING THROUGH BRIDGE SIGNALS OR RAILROAD BARRIERS.
   (a)   No pedestrian shall enter or remain upon any bridge or approach
thereto beyond the bridge signal, gate or barrier after a bridge operation
signal indication has been given.
   (b)   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over or under any crossing
gate or barrier at a railroad grade crossing or bridge while the gate or
barrier is closed or is being opened or closed.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.511)
§ 416.08 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLES.
   (a)   Upon the immediate approach of a public safety vehicle, as stated in
R.C. § 4511.45 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, every
pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to the public safety vehicle.
   (b)   This section shall not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle
from the duty to exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.452)
§ 416.09 RIGHT-OF-WAY ON SIDEWALKS.
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian
on a sidewalk.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.441)
§ 416.10 INTOXICATION.
   (a)   A pedestrian who is under the influence of alcohol, any drug of abuse,
or any combination of them, to a degree that renders the pedestrian a hazard
shall not walk or be upon a highway.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.481)
§ 416.11 MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIR OPERATORS.
   Every person operating a motorized wheelchair shall have all of the rights
and duties applicable to a pedestrian that are contained in this chapter,
except those provisions which by their nature can have no application.
(R.C. § 4511.491)
§ 416.12 OPERATION OF ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICES.
   (a)   (1)   Electric personal assistive mobility devices may be operated on
the public streets, highways, sidewalks and paths and portions of roadways set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles in accordance with this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, those sections of
this traffic code that by their nature are applicable to an electric personal
assistive mobility device apply to the device and the person operating it
whenever it is operated upon any public street, highway, sidewalk or path or
upon any portion of a roadway set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
      (3)   The municipality may regulate or prohibit the operation of electric
personal assistive mobility devices on public streets, highways, sidewalks and
paths, or portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles,
under its jurisdiction.
   (b)   No operator of an electric personal assistive mobility device shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians and human-powered
vehicles at all times;
      (2)   Fail to give an audible signal before overtaking and passing a
pedestrian;
      (3)   Operate the device at night unless the device or its operator is
equipped with or wearing both of the following:
         A.   A lamp pointing to the front that emits a white light visible
from a distance of not less than 500 feet;
         B.   A red reflector facing the rear that is visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet when directly in front of lawful lower
beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle;
      (4)   Operate the device on any portion of a street or highway that has
an established speed limit of 55 miles per hour or more;
      (5)   Operate the device upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of
pedestrians or other specialized use when an appropriate sign giving notice of
the specialized use is posted on the path;
      (6)   If under 18 years of age, operate the device unless wearing a
protective helmet on the person’s head with the chin strap properly fastened;
      (7)   If under 16 years of age, operate the device unless, during the
operation, the person is under the direct visual and audible supervision of
another person who is 18 years of age or older and is responsible for the
immediate care of the person under 16 years of age.
   (c)   No person who is under 14 years of age shall operate an electric
personal assistive mobility device.
   (d)   No person shall distribute or sell an electric personal assistive
mobility device unless the device is accompanied by a written statement that is
substantially equivalent to the following: “WARNING: TO REDUCE THE RISK OF
SERIOUS INJURY, USE ONLY WHILE WEARING FULL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT – HELMET,
WRIST GUARDS, ELBOW PADS AND KNEE PADS.”
   (e)   Nothing in this section affects or shall be construed to affect any
rule of the Director of Natural Resources or a Board of Park District
Commissioners governing the operation of vehicles on lands under the control of
the Director or Board, as applicable.
   (f)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (b) or (c) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor and shall be punished as follows:
         A.   The offender shall be fined $10;
         B.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (b) or (c) of this section, or any
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, the court, in
addition to imposing the fine required under division (f)(1)A. of this section,
shall do one of the following:
            1.   Order the impoundment for not less than one day but no more
than 30 days of the electric personal assistive mobility device that was
involved in the current violation of that division. The court shall order the
device to be impounded at a safe indoor location designated by the court and
may assess storage fees of not more than $5 per day; provided the total
storage, processing and release fees assessed against the offender or the
device in connection with the device’s impoundment or subsequent release shall
not exceed $50.
            2.   If the court does not issue an impoundment order pursuant to
division (f)(1)B.1. of this section, issue an order prohibiting the offender
from operating any electric personal assistive mobility device on the public
streets, highways, sidewalks and paths and portions of roadways set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles for not less than one day but not more than 30
days.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (d) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.512)
   (g)   As used in this code, “electric personal assistive mobility device”
means a self-balancing two non-tandem wheeled device that is designed to
transport only one person, has an electric propulsion system of an average of
750 watts, and when ridden on a paved level surface by an operator who weighs
170 pounds has a maximum speed of less than 20 miles per hour.
(R.C. § 4501.01(TT))
§ 416.13 OPERATION OF PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE ON SIDEWALKS AND CROSSWALKS.
   (a)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Eligible entity.” Means a corporation, partnership, association,
firm, sole proprietorship, or other entity engaged in business.
      (2)   “Personal delivery device.” Means an electrically powered device to
which all of the following apply:
         A.   The device is intended primarily to transport property and cargo
on sidewalks and crosswalks.
         B.   The device weighs less than 250 pounds excluding any property or
cargo being carried in the device.
         C.   The device has a maximum speed of ten miles per hour.
         D.   The device is equipped with technology that enables the operation
of the device with active control or monitoring by a person, without active
control or monitoring by a person, or both with or without active control or
monitoring by a person.
      (3)   “Personal delivery device operator.” Means an agent of an eligible
entity who exercises direct physical control over, or monitoring of, the
navigation and operation of a personal delivery device. The phrase does not
include, with respect to a delivery or other service rendered by a personal
delivery device, the person who requests the delivery or service. The phrase
also does not include a person who only arranges for and dispatches a personal
delivery device for a delivery or other service.
   (b)   An eligible entity may operate a personal delivery device on sidewalks
and crosswalks so long as all of the following requirements are met:
      (1)   The personal delivery device is operated in accordance with all
regulations, if any, established by each local authority within which the
personal delivery device is operated.
      (2)   A personal delivery device operator is actively controlling or
monitoring the navigation and operation of the personal delivery device.
      (3)   The eligible entity maintains an insurance policy that includes
general liability coverage of not less than $100,000 for damages arising from
the operation of the personal delivery device by the eligible entity and any
agent of the eligible entity.
      (4)   The device is equipped with all of the following:
         A.   A marker that clearly identifies the name and contact information
of the eligible entity operating the personal delivery device and a unique
identification number;
         B.   A braking system that enables the personal delivery device to
come to a controlled stop;
         C.   If the personal delivery device is being operated between sunset
and sunrise, a light on both the front and rear of the personal delivery device
that is visible in clear weather from a distance of at least 500 feet to the
front and rear of the personal delivery device when directly in front of low
beams of headlights on a motor vehicle.
   (c)   No personal delivery device operator shall allow a personal delivery
device to do any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to comply with traffic or pedestrian control devices and
signals;
      (2)   Unreasonably interfere with pedestrians or traffic;
      (3)   Transport any hazardous material that would require a permit issued
by the Public Utilities Commission;
      (4)   Operate on a street or highway, except when crossing the street or
highway within a crosswalk.
   (d)   A personal delivery device has all of the rights and obligations
applicable to a pedestrian under the same circumstances, except that a personal
delivery device shall yield the right-of-way to human pedestrians on sidewalks
and crosswalks.
   (e)   (1)   No person shall operate a personal delivery device unless the
person is authorized to do so under this section and complies with the
requirements of this section.
      (2)   An eligible entity is responsible for both of the following:
         A.   Any violation of this section that is committed by a personal
delivery device operator; and
         B.   Any other circumstance, including a technological malfunction, in
which a personal delivery device operates in a manner prohibited by divisions
(c)(1) to (c)(4) of this section.
(R.C. § 4511.513)
§ 416.14 LOW-SPEED MICROMOBILITY DEVICES.
   (a)   (1)   A low-speed micromobility device may be operated on the public
streets, highways, sidewalks, and shared-use paths, and may be operated on any
portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles in accordance
with this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, those sections of
this title that by their nature could apply to a low-speed micromobility device
do apply to the device and the person operating it whenever it is operated upon
any public street, highway, sidewalk, or shared-use path, or upon any portion
of a roadway set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (b)   No operator of a low-speed micromobility device shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Fail to yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians at all times;
      (2)   Fail to give an audible signal before overtaking and passing a
pedestrian;
      (3)   Operate the device at night unless the device or its operator is
equipped with or wearing both of the following:
         A.   A lamp pointing to the front that emits a white light visible
from a distance of not less than 500 feet;
         B.   A red reflector facing the rear that is visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet when directly in front of lawful lower
beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle.
   (c)   (1)   No person who is under 16 years of age shall rent a low-speed
micromobility device.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly rent a low-speed micromobility device to
a person who is under 16 years of age.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly rent a low-speed micromobility device on
behalf of a person who is under 16 years of age.
   (d)   No person shall operate a low-speed micromobility device at a speed
greater than 20 miles per hour.
   (e)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Unless a mens rea is otherwise specified in this section, an
offense established under this section is a strict liability offense and R.C. §
2901.20 does not apply. The designation of that offense as a strict liability
offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for which there
is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
   (f)   Notwithstanding division (a)(1) of this section, the municipality,
county, township, metropolitan park district, township park district,
recreation district, or any division of the Ohio Department of Natural
Resources if the division has the approval of the Ohio Director of Natural
Resources may do any of the following:
      (1)   Regulate or prohibit the operation of low-speed micromobility
devices on public streets, highways, sidewalks, and shared-use paths, and
portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, under its
jurisdiction;
      (2)   Include low-speed micromobility devices that are adapted to expand
access for people with various physical limitations into a shared bicycle,
shared electric bicycle, or similar vehicle sharing program, under its
jurisdiction;
      (3)   Require the owner or operator of a low-speed micromobility device
rental service or low-speed micromobility device sharing program to maintain
commercial general liability insurance related to the operation of the devices,
with limits of up to $1,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 per aggregate.
(R.C. § 4511.514)
§ 416.99 PENALTY.
Editor’s note:
   See §§
408.01 and
408.02 for general traffic code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
TITLE SIX: OPERATION AND VEHICLES
CHAPTER 432: OPERATION GENERALLY
Section
432.01   Driving upon right side of roadway; exceptions.
432.02   Passing to right when proceeding in opposite directions.
432.03   Overtaking, passing to left; driver’s duties.
432.04   Overtaking, passing to right of vehicle.
432.05   Overtaking, passing to left of centerline.
432.06   Driving upon left side of roadway.
432.07   Hazardous or no passing zones.
432.08   Driving within lanes or continuous lines of traffic.
432.09   Following too closely.
432.10   Turning at intersections.
432.11   “U” turns restricted.
432.12   Starting and backing vehicles.
432.13   Signals before changing course, turning or stopping.
432.14   Hand and arm signals.
432.15   Right-of-way at intersections.
432.16   Intersections at which traffic-control signals fail or malfunction.
432.17   Right-of-way when turning left.
432.18   Operation of vehicle at stop and yield signs.
432.19   Emergency or public safety vehicles at stop signals or signs.
432.20   Right-of-way of public safety or coroner’s vehicle.
432.201   Driving while approaching stationary public safety vehicle and
certain other vehicles with flashing lights.
432.21   Right-of-way at private driveway, alley or building.
432.22   Stop signs on private roads and driveways.
432.23   Right-of-way of funeral procession.
432.24   Driving upon sidewalks, tree lawns or curbs.
432.25   Driver’s view and control to be unobstructed by load or persons.
432.26   Driving upon street posted as closed for repair.
432.27   Following and parking near emergency or safety vehicles.
432.28   Driving over fire hose.
432.29   Driving through safety zone.
432.30   One-way streets and rotary traffic islands.
432.31   Driving upon divided roadways.
432.32   Stopping for school bus; actuating visual signals; discharging
children.
432.33   Driving across grade crossings.
432.34   Stopping at grade crossings.
432.35   Slow-moving vehicles or equipment at grade crossings.
432.36   Obstructing intersections, crosswalks or grade crossings.
432.37   “Peeling”; cracking exhaust noises.
432.38   Shortcutting across private property.
432.39   Entering and exiting controlled-access highway.
432.40   Weaving; full time and attention.
432.41   Operation on paths set aside for bicycles.
432.42   Littering from motor vehicles.
432.43   Use of earphones while driving.
432.44   Sending, reading, or writing a text message or accessing the internet
while driving.
432.45   Use of electronic wireless communication devices by minors or
probationary drivers while driving prohibited.
432.99   Penalty.
Cross-references:
   Obedience to traffic-control devices, see §
414.01
   Operation of bicycles and motorcycles generally, see §§
444.01 et seq.
   Operation of snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles and all-purpose vehicles,
see §§
446.03,
446.04
   Yielding right-of-way to pedestrians on sidewalks, see §
416.09
§ 432.01 DRIVING UPON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY; EXCEPTIONS.
   (a)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction, or when making a left turn under the rules governing those
movements;
      (2)   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the highway; provided, any person so doing shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the highway within such distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard;
      (3)   When driving upon a roadway divided into three or more marked lanes
for traffic under the rules applicable thereon;
      (4)   When driving upon a roadway designated and posted with signs for
one-way traffic;
      (5)   When otherwise directed by a police officer or traffic-control
device.
   (b)   (1)   Upon all roadways any vehicle proceeding at less than the
prevailing and lawful speed of traffic at the time and place and under the
conditions then existing shall be driven in the right- hand lane then available
for traffic, and far enough to the right to allow passing by faster vehicles if
the passing is safe and reasonable, except under any of the following
circumstances:
         A.   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction;
         B.   When preparing for a left turn;
         C.   When the driver must necessarily drive in a lane other than the
right-hand lane to continue on the driver’s intended route.
      (2)   Nothing in division (b)(1) of this section requires a driver of a
slower vehicle to compromise the driver’s safety to allow overtaking by a
faster vehicle.
   (c)   Upon any roadway having four or more lanes for moving traffic and
providing for two- way movement of traffic, no vehicle shall be driven to the
left of the centerline of the roadway, except when authorized by official
traffic-control devices designating certain lanes to the left of the center of
the roadway for use by traffic not otherwise permitted to use the lanes, or
except as permitted under division (a)(2) of this section. This division shall
not be construed as prohibiting the crossing of the centerline in making a left
turn into or from an alley, private road or driveway.
   (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (e)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.25)
§ 432.02 PASSING TO RIGHT WHEN PROCEEDING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   (a)   Operators of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass
each other to the right, and upon roadways having width for not more than one
line of traffic in each direction, each operator shall give to the other one-
half of the main traveled portion of the roadway or as nearly one-half as is
reasonably possible.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.26)
§ 432.03 OVERTAKING, PASSING TO LEFT; DRIVER’S DUTIES.
   (a)   The following rules govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles
proceeding in the same direction:
      (1)   The operator of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in
the same direction shall, except as provided in division (a)(3) of this
section, signal to the vehicle to be overtaken, shall pass to the left thereof
at a safe distance, and shall not again drive to the right side of the roadway
until safely clear of the overtaken vehicle. When a motor vehicle overtakes and
passes a bicycle or electric bicycle, three feet or greater is considered a
safe passing distance.
      (2)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
operator of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle at the latter’s audible signal, and the operator shall not
increase the speed of the operator’s vehicle until completely passed by the
overtaking vehicle.
      (3)   The operator of a vehicle overtaking and passing another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction on a divided highway as defined in R.C. §
4511.35, a limited access highway as defined in R.C. § 5511.02, or a highway
with four or more traffic lanes is not required to signal audibly to the
vehicle being overtaken and passed.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.27)
§ 432.04 OVERTAKING, PASSING TO RIGHT OF VEHICLE.
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass on the right of another
vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
or
      (2)   Upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width for
two or more lines of vehicles moving lawfully in the direction being traveled
by the overtaking vehicle.
   (b)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle only
under conditions permitting the movement in safety. The movement shall not be
made by driving off the roadway.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (d)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.28)
§ 432.05 OVERTAKING, PASSING TO LEFT OF CENTERLINE.
   (a)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left of the center of the roadway in
overtaking and passing traffic proceeding in the same direction, unless the
left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient
distance ahead to permit the overtaking and passing to be completely made
without interfering with the safe operation of any traffic approaching from the
opposite direction or any traffic overtaken. In every event, the overtaking
vehicle must return to an authorized lane of travel as soon as practicable, and
in the event the passing movement involves the use of a lane authorized for the
traffic approaching from the opposite direction, before coming within 200 feet
of any approaching vehicle.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.29)
§ 432.06 DRIVING UPON LEFT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   (a)   No vehicle shall be driven upon the left side of the roadway under the
following conditions:
      (1)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
highway, where the operator’s view is obstructed within such a distance as to
create a hazard in the event traffic might approach from the opposite
direction;
      (2)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of any
bridge, viaduct or tunnel; or
      (3)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any intersection
or railroad grade crossing.
   (b)   This section does not apply to vehicles upon a one-way roadway, upon a
roadway where traffic is lawfully directed to be driven to the left side, or
under the conditions described in R.C. § 4511.25(A)(2) or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (d)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.30)
§ 432.07 HAZARDOUS OR NO PASSING ZONES.
   (a)   The Department of Transportation may determine those portions of any
state highway where overtaking and passing other traffic or driving to the left
of the center or centerline of the roadway would be especially hazardous, and
may, by appropriate signs or markings on the highway, indicate the beginning
and end of the zones. When signs or markings are in place and clearly visible,
every operator of a vehicle shall obey the directions of the signs or markings,
notwithstanding the distances set out in R.C. § 4511.30.
   (b)   Division (a) of this section does not apply when all of the following
apply:
      (1)   The slower vehicle is proceeding at less than half the speed of the
speed limit applicable to that location.
      (2)   The faster vehicle is capable of overtaking and passing the slower
vehicle without exceeding the speed limit.
      (3)   There is sufficient clear sight distance to the left of the center
or centerline of the roadway to meet the overtaking and passing provisions of
R.C. § 4511.29, considering the speed of the slower vehicle.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (d)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.31)
§ 432.08 DRIVING WITHIN LANES OR CONTINUOUS LINES OF TRAFFIC.
   (a)   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for traffic, or wherever within the municipality traffic is lawfully
moving in two or more substantially continuous lines in the same direction, the
following rules apply:
      (1)   A vehicle shall be driven, as nearly as is practicable, entirely
within a single lane or line of traffic and shall not be moved from the lane or
line until the driver has first ascertained that the movement can be made with
safety.
      (2)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes and provides for
the two-way movement of traffic, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center
lane, except when overtaking and passing another vehicle where the roadway is
clearly visible and the center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance,
or when preparing for a left turn, or where the center lane is at the time
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the direction the vehicle is
proceeding, and is posted with signs to give notice of that allocation.
      (3)   Official signs may be erected directing specified traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction, regardless of the center of the roadway, or restricting
the use of a particular lane to only buses during certain hours or during all
hours, and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of the signs.
      (4)   Official traffic-control devices may be installed prohibiting the
changing of lanes on sections of roadway, and drivers of vehicles shall obey
the directions of every such device.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.33)
§ 432.09 FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY.
   (a)   (1)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle
more closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of
the vehicle and the traffic upon and the condition of the highway.
      (2)   The driver of any truck, or motor vehicle drawing another vehicle,
when traveling upon a roadway outside a business or residence district, shall
maintain a sufficient space, whenever conditions permit, between the vehicle
and another vehicle ahead so an overtaking motor vehicle may enter and occupy
the space without danger. This division (a) does not prevent overtaking and
passing nor does it apply to any lane specially designated for use by trucks.
      (3)   Motor vehicles being driven upon any roadway outside of a business
or residence district in a caravan or motorcade shall maintain a sufficient
space between the vehicles so an overtaking vehicle may enter and occupy the
space without danger. This division shall not apply to funeral processions.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.34)
§ 432.10 TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall be
governed by the following rules:
      (1)   Approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      (2)   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both
directions on each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left
turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
centerline thereof and by passing to the right of the centerline where it
enters the intersection, and, after entering the intersection, the left turn
shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the centerline of
the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be made in
that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the intersection.
      (3)   At any intersection where traffic is restricted to one direction on
one or more of the roadways, the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at
any such intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand
lane lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of the
vehicle, and, after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so
as to leave the intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the left hand lane
of the roadway being entered lawfully available to traffic moving in that lane.
   (b)   The Department of Transportation and local authorities may cause
markers, buttons or signs to be placed within or adjacent to intersections, and
thereby require and direct that a different course from that specified in this
section be traveled by vehicles turning at an intersection, and when markers,
buttons or signs are so placed, no operator of a vehicle shall turn the vehicle
at an intersection other than as directed and required by the markers, buttons
or signs.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (d)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.36)
§ 432.11 “U” TURNS RESTRICTED.
   (a)   Except as provided in R.C. § 4511.13 and division (b) of this section,
no vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon any
curve, or upon the approach to or near the crest of a grade, if the vehicle
cannot be seen within 500 feet by the driver of any other vehicle approaching
from either direction.
   (b)   The driver of an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call, may turn the vehicle so as to proceed in the
opposite direction. This division applies only when the emergency vehicle or
public safety vehicle is responding to an emergency call, is equipped with and
displaying at least one flashing, rotating or oscillating light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle, and when the driver of the vehicle is giving an audible signal by
siren, exhaust whistle or bell. This division does not relieve the driver of an
emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (d)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.37)
   (e)   Except as provided in division (b) of this section, no vehicle shall
be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction within an intersection, or
upon any street in a business district, or upon a freeway, expressway or
controlled-access highway, or where authorized signs are erected to prohibit
that movement, or at any other location unless the movement can be made with
reasonable safety to other users of the public way and without interfering with
the safe operation of any traffic that may be affected by the movement.
§ 432.12 STARTING AND BACKING VEHICLES.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing or
parked until the movement can be made with reasonable safety.
      (2)   Before backing, operators of vehicles shall give ample warning, and
while backing they shall exercise vigilance not to injure person or property on
the street or highway.
      (3)   No person shall back a motor vehicle on a freeway, except:
         A.   In a rest area;
         B.   In the performance of public works or official duties;
         C.   As a result of an emergency caused by an accident or breakdown of
a motor vehicle.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.38)
§ 432.13 SIGNALS BEFORE CHANGING COURSE, TURNING OR STOPPING.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall turn a vehicle or move right or left upon a
highway unless and until the person has exercised due care to ascertain that
the movement can be made with reasonable safety, nor without giving an
appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter provided.
      (2)   When required, a signal of intention to turn or move right or left
shall be given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by
the vehicle before turning, except that in the case of a person operating a
bicycle or electric bicycle, the signal shall be made not less than one time
but is not required to be continuous. A bicycle or electric bicycle operator is
not required to make a signal if the bicycle is in a designated turn lane, and
a signal shall not be given when the operator’s hands are needed for the safe
operation of the bicycle or electric bicycle.
      (3)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear, when there is opportunity to
give a signal.
      (4)   Any stop or turn signal required by this section shall be given
either by means of the hand and arm, or by signal lights that clearly indicate
to both approaching and following traffic the intention to turn or move right
or left, except that any motor vehicle in use on a highway shall be equipped
with, and the required signal shall be given by, signal lights when the
distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the left outside
limit of the body, cab or load of the motor vehicle exceeds 24 inches, or when
the distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the rear limit
of the body or load thereof exceeds 14 feet, whether a single vehicle or a
combination of vehicles.
      (5)   The signal lights required by this section shall not be flashed on
one side only on a disabled vehicle, flashed as a courtesy or “do pass” signal
to operators of other vehicles approaching from the rear, nor be flashed on one
side only of a parked vehicle except as may be necessary for compliance with
this section.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.39)
§ 432.14 HAND AND ARM SIGNALS.
   (a)   Except as provided in division (b) of this section, all signals
required by the provisions of this traffic code, when given by hand and arm,
shall be given from the left side of the vehicle in the following manner, and
the signals shall indicate as follows:
      (1)   Left turn, hand and arm extended horizontally;
      (2)   Right turn, hand and arm extended upward;
      (3)   Stop or decrease speed, hand and arm extended downward.
   (b)   As an alternative to division (a)(2) of this section, a person
operating a bicycle or electric bicycle may give a right turn signal by
extending the right hand and arm horizontally and to the right side of the
bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (d)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.40)
§ 432.15 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (a)   When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection from different
streets or highways at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle
on the left shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
   (b)   The right-of-way rule declared in division (a) of this section is
modified at through highways and otherwise as stated in this traffic code or
R.C. Chapter 4511.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (d)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.41)
§ 432.16 INTERSECTIONS AT WHICH TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNALS FAIL OR MALFUNCTION.
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle who approaches an intersection where traffic
is controlled by traffic control signals shall do all of the following if the
signal facing the driver exhibits no colored lights or colored lighted arrows,
exhibits a combination of such lights or arrows that fails to clearly indicate
the assignment of right-of-way, or, if the vehicle is a bicycle or an electric
bicycle, the signals are otherwise malfunctioning due to the failure of a
vehicle detector to detect the presence of the bicycle or electric bicycle:
      (1)   Stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, stop before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or, if none, stop
before entering the intersection;
      (2)   Yield the right-of-way to all vehicles in the intersection or
approaching on an intersecting road, if the vehicles will constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection or junction of roadways;
      (3)   Exercise ordinary care while proceeding through the intersection.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.132)
§ 432.17 RIGHT-OF-WAY WHEN TURNING LEFT.
   (a)   The operator of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an
intersection or into an alley, private road or driveway shall yield the right-
of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is within
the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.42)
§ 432.18 OPERATION OF VEHICLE AT STOP AND YIELD SIGNS.
   (a)   Except when directed to proceed by a law enforcement officer, every
driver of a vehicle approaching a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or, if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering it. After having stopped, the driver shall yield the right-of-
way to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another roadway so
closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the time the driver is
moving across or within the intersection or junction of roadways.
   (b)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall slow down to a
speed reasonable for the existing conditions, and if required for safety to
stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, before entering
the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if none, then at the
point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering it. After
slowing, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection or junction of roadways. Whenever a driver is involved in a
collision with a vehicle in the intersection or junction of roadways, after
driving past a yield sign without stopping, the collision shall be prima facie
evidence of the driver’s failure to yield the right-of-way.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (d)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.43)
§ 432.19 EMERGENCY OR PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLES AT STOP SIGNALS OR SIGNS.
   (a)   The driver of any emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call, upon approaching a red or stop signal or any
stop sign, shall slow down as necessary for safety to traffic, but may proceed
cautiously past the red or stop sign or signal with due regard for the safety
of all persons using the street or highway.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.03)
§ 432.20 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF PUBLIC SAFETY OR CORONER’S VEHICLE.
   (a)   Upon the approach of a public safety vehicle or coroner’s vehicle,
equipped with at least one flashing, rotating or oscillating light visible
under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of
the vehicle, and the driver is giving an audible signal by siren, exhaust
whistle or bell, no driver of any other vehicle shall fail to yield the right-
of-way, immediately drive, if practical, to a position parallel to, and as
close as possible to, the right edge or curb of the highway clear of any
intersection, and stop and remain in that position until the public safety
vehicle or coroner’s vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a
police officer.
   (b)   This section does not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle or
coroner’s vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons and property upon the highway.
   (c)   This section applies to a coroner’s vehicle only when the vehicle is
operated in accordance with R.C. § 4513.171, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance. As used in this section, “coroner’s vehicle” means a
vehicle used by a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator that is
equipped with a flashing, oscillating or rotating red or blue light and a
siren, exhaust whistle or bell capable of giving an audible signal.
   (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this division or division (e), whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a
first offense. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 4511.45)
   (e)   (1)   When the failure of a motor vehicle operator to yield the right-
of-way to a public safety vehicle as required by division (a) of this section
impedes the ability of the public safety vehicle to respond to an emergency,
any emergency personnel in the public safety vehicle may report the license
plate number and a general description of the vehicle and the operator of the
vehicle to the law enforcement agency exercising jurisdiction over the area
where the alleged violation occurred.
      (2)   A.   Upon receipt of a report under division (e)(1) of this
section, the law enforcement agency may conduct an investigation to attempt to
determine or confirm the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time of
the alleged violation.
         B.   If the identity of the operator at the time of an alleged
violation of division (a) of this section is established, the law enforcement
agency has probable cause to issue either a written warning or a citation for
that violation, and the agency shall issue a written warning or a citation to
the operator.
         C.   If the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time of the
alleged violation cannot be established, the law enforcement agency may issue a
written warning to the person who owned the vehicle at the time of the alleged
violation. However, in the case of a leased or rented vehicle, the law
enforcement agency shall issue the written warning to the person who leased or
rented the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation.
      (3)   A.   Whoever violates division (a) of this section based on a
report filed under division (e)(1) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor and shall be fined $150.
         B.   If a person who is issued a citation for a violation of division
(a) of this section based on a report filed under division (e)(1) of this
section does not enter a written plea of guilty and does not waive the person’s
right to contest the citation but instead appears in person in the proper court
to answer the charge, the trier of fact cannot find beyond a reasonable doubt
that the person committed that violation unless the emergency personnel who
filed the report appears in person in the court and testifies.
      (4)   As used in this division (e):
         A.   "License plate." Includes any temporary motor vehicle license
registration issued under R.C. § 4503.182 or similar law of another
jurisdiction.
         B.   “Public safety vehicle.” Does not include an unmarked public
safety vehicle or a vehicle used by a public law enforcement officer or other
person sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state or a vehicle
used by the motor carrier enforcement unit for the enforcement of orders and
rules of the public utilities commission.
(R.C. § 4511.454)
§ 432.201 DRIVING WHILE APPROACHING STATIONARY PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE AND
CERTAIN OTHER VEHICLES WITH FLASHING LIGHTS.
   (a)   The driver of a motor vehicle, upon approaching a stationary public
safety vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle, waste collection
vehicle, vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to conduct motor
vehicle inspections in accordance with R.C. § 4923.04 and 4923.06, or a highway
maintenance vehicle that is displaying the appropriate visual signals by means
of flashing, oscillating, or rotating lights, as prescribed in R.C. § 4513.17,
shall do either of the following:
      (1)   If the driver of the motor vehicle is traveling on a highway that
consists of at least two lanes that carry traffic in the same direction of
travel as that of the driver’s motor vehicle, the driver shall proceed with due
caution and, if possible and with due regard to the road, weather and traffic
conditions, shall change lanes into a lane this is not adjacent to that of the
stationary public safety vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle,
waste collection vehicle, vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to
conduct motor vehicle inspections in accordance with R.C. § 4923.04 and
4923.06, or a highway maintenance vehicle.
      (2)   If the driver is not traveling on a highway of a type described in
division (a)(1) of this section, or if the driver is traveling on a highway of
that type but it is not possible to change lanes or if to do so would be
unsafe, the driver shall proceed with due caution, reduce the speed of the
motor vehicle, and maintain a safe speed for the road, weather and traffic
conditions.
   (b)   This section does not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle,
emergency vehicle, road service vehicle, waste collection vehicle, vehicle used
by the Public Utilities Commission to conduct motor vehicle inspections in
accordance with R.C. § 4923.04 and 4923.06, or a highway maintenance vehicle
from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons and
property upon the highway.
   (c)   No person shall fail to drive a motor vehicle in compliance with
divisions (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section when so required by division (a) of
this section.
   (d)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Notwithstanding §
698.02 or R.C. § 2929.28, upon a finding that a person operated a motor vehicle
in violation of division (c) of this section, the court, in addition to all
other penalties provided by law, shall impose a fine of two times the usual
amount imposed for the violation.
      (3)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
   (e)   The offense established under this section is a strict liability
offense and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of this offense as a
strict liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other
offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict
liability offense.
(R.C. § 4511.213)
§ 432.21 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT PRIVATE DRIVEWAY, ALLEY OR BUILDING.
   (a)   (1)   The operator of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from
any place other than another roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all
traffic approaching on the roadway to be entered or crossed.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (a) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (a) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
division (a) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (3)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.44)
   (b)   (1)   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, building,
private road or driveway within a business or residence district shall stop the
vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area
extending across the alley, building entrance, road or driveway, or in the
event there is no sidewalk area, shall stop at the point nearest the street to
be entered where the driver has a view of approaching traffic thereon.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (b) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (b) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
division (b) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (3)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.431)
   (c)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn into a private road or
driveway, alley or building from a public street or highway shall be governed
by the following rules:
      (1)   Approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      (2)   Upon a roadway where traffic is proceeding in opposite directions,
approach for a left turn and a left turn shall be made from that portion of the
right half of the roadway nearest the centerline thereof.
      (3)   Upon a roadway where traffic is restricted to one direction,
approach for a left turn and a left turn shall be made as close as practicable
to the left-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   (d)   It shall be the duty of the driver of any vehicle entering a private
road or driveway, alley or building to yield the right-of-way to pedestrians
lawfully using the sidewalk or sidewalk area extending across the private road
or driveway, alley or building.
§ 432.22 STOP SIGNS ON PRIVATE ROADS AND DRIVEWAYS.
   (a)   The owner of a private road or driveway located in a private
residential area containing 20 or more dwelling units may erect stop signs at
places where the road or driveway intersects with another private road or
driveway in the residential area, in compliance with all of the following
requirements:
      (1)   The stop sign is sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily
observant person and meets the specifications of and is placed in accordance
with the Manual adopted by the Department of Transportation pursuant to R.C. §
4511.09.
      (2)   The owner has posted a sign at the entrance of the private road or
driveway that is in plain view and clearly informs persons entering the road or
driveway that they are entering private property, stop signs have been posted
and must be obeyed, and the signs are enforceable by law enforcement officers
under state law. The sign required by this division, where appropriate, may be
incorporated with the sign required by R.C. § 4511.211(A)(2), or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (b)   R.C. § 4511.43(A) and 4511.46, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, shall be deemed to apply to the driver of a vehicle on a
private road or driveway where a stop sign is placed in accordance with
division (a) of this section and to a pedestrian crossing such a road or
driveway at an intersection where a stop sign is in place.
   (c)   When a stop sign is placed in accordance with division (a) of this
section, any law enforcement officer may apprehend a person found violating the
stop sign and may stop and charge the person with violating the stop sign.
   (d)   As used in this section, and for the purpose of applying R.C. §
4511.43(A) and 4511.46, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, to
conduct under this section, the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Intersection.”
         A.   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two private roads or driveways which join one another at, or
approximately at, right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling
upon different private roads or driveways joining at any other angle may come
in conflict.
         B.   Where a private road or driveway includes two roadways 30 feet or
more apart, then every crossing of two roadways of the private roads or
driveways shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
      (2)   “Owner” and “private residential area containing 20 or more
dwelling units.” Have the same meanings as in R.C. § 4511.211.
      (3)   “Roadway.” That portion of a private road or driveway improved,
designed or ordinarily used for vehicular travel, except the berm or shoulder.
If a private road or driveway includes two or more separate roadways, the term
“roadway” means any such roadway separately but not all such roadways
collectively.
   (e)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.432)
§ 432.23 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF FUNERAL PROCESSION.
   (a)   As used in this section, “funeral procession” means two or more
vehicles accompanying the cremated remains or the body of a deceased person in
the daytime when each of the vehicles has its headlights lighted and is
displaying a purple and white or an orange and white pennant attached to each
vehicle in such a manner as to be clearly visible to traffic approaching from
any direction.
   (b)   Excepting public safety vehicles proceeding in accordance with R.C. §
4511.45 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or when directed
otherwise by a police officer, pedestrians and the operators of all vehicles
shall yield the right-of-way to each vehicle that is a part of a funeral
procession. Whenever the lead vehicle in a funeral procession lawfully enters
an intersection, the remainder of the vehicles in the procession may continue
to follow the lead vehicle through the intersection, notwithstanding any
traffic-control devices or right-of-way provisions of the Revised Code,
provided that the operator of each vehicle exercises due care to avoid
colliding with any other vehicle or pedestrian.
   (c)   No person shall operate any vehicle as a part of a funeral procession
without having the headlights of the vehicle lighted and without displaying a
purple and white or an orange and white pennant in such a manner as to be
clearly visible to traffic approaching from any direction.
   (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (e)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.451)
§ 432.24 DRIVING UPON SIDEWALKS, TREE LAWNS OR CURBS.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall drive any vehicle, other than a bicycle or an
electric bicycle if the motor is not engaged, upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area,
except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway.
      (2)   This prohibition does not apply to a law enforcement officer, or
other person sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state, using
an electric bicycle with the motor engaged while in the performance of the
officer's duties.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting local
authorities from regulating the operation of bicycles or electric bicycles,
except that no local authority may require that bicycles or electric bicycles
be operated on sidewalks.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.711)
   (d)   No person shall drive a vehicle on a tree lawn area or the curb of a
street, except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway or when
otherwise lawfully authorized.
§ 432.25 DRIVER’S VIEW AND CONTROL TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED BY LOAD OR PERSONS.
   (a)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there
are in the front seat such number of persons, as to obstruct the view of the
driver to the front or sides of the vehicle, or to interfere with the driver’s
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (b)   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in a position as to interfere
with the driver’s view ahead or to the sides, or to interfere with the driver’s
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (c)   No person shall open the door of a vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, and can be done
without interfering with the movement of other traffic; nor shall any person
leave a door open on the side of a vehicle available to moving traffic for a
period of time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers.
   (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.70)
§ 432.26 DRIVING UPON STREET POSTED AS CLOSED FOR REPAIR.
   (a)   No person shall drive upon, along or across a street or highway, or
any part of a street or highway that has been closed in the process of its
construction, reconstruction or repair, and posted with appropriate signs by
the authority having jurisdiction to close the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.71(A))
   (b)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle on or onto a public street or
highway that is temporarily covered by a rise in water level, including
groundwater or an overflow of water, and that is clearly marked by a sign that
specifies that the road is closed due to the rise in water level and that any
person who uses the closed portion of the road may be fined up to $2,000.
      (2)   A person who is issued a citation for a violation of division (b)
(1) of this section is not permitted to enter a written plea of guilty and
waive the person’s right to contest the citation in court, but instead must
appear in person in the proper court to answer the charge.
(R.C. § 4511.714(A), (B))
   (c)   (1)   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever
violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If,
within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of
or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
         B.   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.71(B))
      (2)   A.   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
         B.   In addition to the financial sanctions authorized or required
under R.C. § 2929.28 and to any costs otherwise authorized or required under
any provision of law, the court imposing the sentence upon an offender who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of division (b) of this section
shall order the offender to reimburse one or more rescuers for the cost any
such rescuer incurred in rescuing the person, excluding any cost of
transporting the rescued person to a hospital or other facility for treatment
of injuries, up to a cumulative maximum of $2,000. If more than one rescuer was
involved in the emergency response, the court shall allocate the reimbursement
proportionately, according to the cost each rescuer incurred. A financial
sanction imposed under this section is a judgment in favor of the rescuer and,
subject to a determination of indigency under R.C. § 2929.28(B), a rescuer may
collect the financial sanction in the same manner as provided in R.C. §
2929.28.
(R.C. § 4511.714(C))
   (d)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Emergency medical service organization.” Has the same meanings as
in R.C. § 9.60.
      (2)   “Firefighting agency.” Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 9.60.
      (3)   “Private fire company.” Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 9.60.
      (4)   “Rescuer.” Means a state agency, political subdivision,
firefighting agency, private fire company, or emergency medical service
organization.
(R.C. § 4511.714(D))
§ 432.27 FOLLOWING AND PARKING NEAR EMERGENCY OR SAFETY VEHICLES.
   (a)   The driver of any vehicle, other than an emergency vehicle or public
safety vehicle on official business, shall not follow any emergency vehicle or
public safety vehicle traveling in response to an alarm closer than 500 feet,
or drive into or park the vehicle within the block where the fire apparatus has
stopped in answer to a fire alarm, unless directed to do so by a police officer
or a firefighter.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.72)
§ 432.28 DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (a)   No vehicle shall, without the consent of the Fire Department official
in command, be driven over any unprotected hose of a fire department that is
laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any fire or alarm of
fire.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.73)
§ 432.29 DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE.
   (a)   No vehicle shall at any time be driven through or within a safety
zone.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.60)
§ 432.30 ONE-WAY STREETS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (a)   (1)   Upon a roadway designated and posted with signs for one-way
traffic, a vehicle shall be driven only in the direction designated.
      (2)   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven
only to the right of the rotary traffic island.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.32)
§ 432.31 DRIVING UPON DIVIDED ROADWAYS.
   (a)   Whenever any highway has been divided into two roadways by an
intervening space, or by a physical barrier, or a clearly indicated dividing
section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle shall be
driven only upon the right-hand roadway, and no vehicle shall be driven over,
across or within any dividing space, barrier or section, except through an
opening, crossover or intersection established by public authority. This
section does not prohibit the occupancy of the dividing space, barrier or
section for the purpose of an emergency stop, or in compliance with an order of
a police officer.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.35)
§ 432.32 STOPPING FOR SCHOOL BUS; ACTUATING VISUAL SIGNALS; DISCHARGING
CHILDREN.
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle, upon meeting or overtaking from either
direction any school bus stopped for the purpose of receiving or discharging
any school child, person attending programs offered by community boards of
mental health and county boards of developmental disabilities, or child
attending a program offered by a head start agency, shall stop at least ten
feet from the front or rear of the school bus and shall not proceed until the
school bus resumes motion, or until signaled by the school bus driver to
proceed. It is no defense to a charge under this division that the school bus
involved failed to display or be equipped with an automatically extended stop
warning sign as required by division (b) of this section.
   (b)   Every school bus shall be equipped with amber and red visual signals
meeting the requirements of R.C. § 4511.771 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and an automatically extended stop warning sign of a type
approved by the State Board of Education, which shall be actuated by the driver
of the bus whenever, but only whenever, the bus is stopped or stopping on the
roadway for the purpose of receiving or discharging school children, persons
attending programs offered by community boards of mental health and county
boards of developmental disabilities, or children attending programs offered by
head start agencies. A school bus driver shall not actuate the visual signals
or the stop warning sign in designated school bus loading areas where the bus
is entirely off the roadway or at school buildings when children or persons
attending programs offered by community boards of mental health and county
boards of developmental disabilities are loading or unloading at curbside or at
buildings when children attending programs offered by head start agencies are
loading or unloading at curbside. The visual signals and stop warning sign
shall be synchronized or otherwise operated as required by rule of the Board.
   (c)   Where a highway has been divided into four or more traffic lanes, a
driver of a vehicle need not stop for a school bus approaching from the
opposite direction which has stopped for the purpose of receiving or
discharging any school child, persons attending programs offered by community
boards of mental health and county boards of developmental disabilities, or
children attending programs offered by head start agencies. The driver of any
vehicle overtaking the school bus shall comply with division (a) above.
   (d)   School buses operating on divided highways or on highways with four or
more traffic lanes shall receive and discharge all school children, persons
attending programs offered by community boards of mental health and county
boards of developmental disabilities, and children attending programs offered
by head start agencies on their residence side of the highway.
   (e)   No school bus driver shall start the driver’s bus until after any
child, person attending programs offered by community boards of mental health
and county boards of developmental disabilities, or child attending a program
offered by a head start agency who may have alighted therefrom has reached a
place of safety on the child’s or person’s residence side of the road.
   (f)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section may be fined an
amount not to exceed $500. A person who is issued a citation for a violation of
division (a) of this section is not permitted to enter a written plea of guilty
and waive the person’s right to contest the citation in a trial but instead
must appear in person in the proper court to answer the charge.
      (2)   In addition to and independent of any other penalty provided by
law, the court or Mayor may impose upon an offender who violates this section a
class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7). When a
license is suspended under this section, the court or Mayor shall cause the
offender to deliver the license to the court, and the court or Clerk of the
Court immediately shall forward the license to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles,
together with notice of the court’s action.
   (g)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Head start agency.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3301.32.
      (2)   “School bus.” As used in relation to children who attend a program
offered by a head start agency, means a bus that is owned and operated by a
head start agency, is equipped with an automatically extended stop warning sign
of a type approved by the State Board of Education, is painted the color and
displays the markings described in R.C. § 4511.77, and is equipped with amber
and red visual signals meeting the requirements of R.C. § 4511.77, irrespective
of whether or not the bus has 15 or more children aboard at any time. The term
does not include a van owned and operated by a head start agency, irrespective
of its color, lights or markings.
(R.C. § 4511.75)
§ 432.33 DRIVING ACROSS GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (a)   (1)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad
grade crossing, the person shall stop within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet
from the nearest rail of the railroad if any of the following circumstances
exist at the crossing:
         A.   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a train.
         B.   A crossing gate is lowered.
         C.   A flagperson gives or continues to give a signal of the approach
or passage of a train.
         D.   There is insufficient space on the other side of the railroad
grade crossing to accommodate the vehicle the person is operating without
obstructing the passage of other vehicles, pedestrians or railroad trains,
notwithstanding any traffic-control signal indication to proceed.
         E.   An approaching train is emitting an audible signal or is plainly
visible, and is in hazardous proximity to the crossing.
         F.   There is insufficient undercarriage clearance to safely negotiate
the crossing.
      (2)   A person who is driving a vehicle and who approaches a railroad
grade crossing shall not proceed as long as any of the circumstances described
in divisions (a)(1)A. through (a)(1)F. of this section exist at the crossing.
   (b)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while the gate or barrier is
closed, or is being opened or closed unless the person is signaled by a law
enforcement officer or flagperson that it is permissible to do so.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.62)
§ 432.34 STOPPING AT GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (a)   (1)   Except as provided in division (a)(2) of this section, the
operator of any bus, any school vehicle, or any vehicle transporting material
required to be placarded under 49 C.F.R. Parts 100 to 185, before crossing at
grade any track of a railroad, shall stop the vehicle, and while so stopped,
shall listen through an open door or open window, and look in both directions
along the track for any approaching train and for signals indicating the
approach of a train, and shall proceed only upon exercising due care after
stopping, looking and listening as required by this section. Upon proceeding,
the operator of such a vehicle shall cross only in a gear that will ensure
there will be no necessity for changing gears while traversing the crossing,
and shall not shift gears while crossing the tracks.
      (2)   Division (a) of this section does not apply at grade crossings when
any local authority has filed an application with the Public Utilities
Commission requesting the approval of an exempt crossing, and the Public
Utilities Commission has authorized and approved an exempt crossing as provided
in R.C. § 4511.63(B).
      (3)   As used in division (a) of this section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         A.   “Bus.” Any vehicle originally designed by its manufacturer to
transport 16 or more passengers, including the driver, or carries 16 or more
passengers, including the driver.
         B.   “Exempt crossing.” A highway rail grade crossing authorized and
approved by the Public Utilities Commission under R.C. § 4511.63(B) at which
vehicles may cross without making the stop otherwise required by this section.
         C.   “School vehicle.” Any vehicle used for the transportation of
pupils to and from a school or school-related function if the vehicle is owned
or operated by, or operated under contract with, a public or nonpublic school.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (a) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of
division (a) of this section or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762,
4511.764, 4511.77 or 4511.79, or a municipal ordinance that is substantially
equivalent to any of those sections, whoever violates division (a) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.63)
   (b)   (1)   As used in this section, “active grade crossing warning device”
means signs, signals, gates, or other protective devices erected or installed
at a public highway-railway crossing at common grade and activated by an
electrical circuit.
      (2)   The Department of Transportation and local authorities, with the
approval of the Department, may designate dangerous highway crossings over
railroad tracks and erect stop signs thereat.
      (3)   A.   The Department and local authorities shall erect stop signs at
a railroad highway grade crossing in either of the following circumstances:
            1.   New warning devices that are not active grade crossing warning
devices are being installed at the grade crossing, and railroad crossbucks were
the only warning devices at the grade crossing prior to the installation of the
new warning devices.
            2.   The grade crossing is constructed after July 1, 2013 and only
warning devices that are not active grade crossing warning devices are
installed at the grade crossing.
         B.   Division (b)(3)A. of this section does not apply to a railroad
highway grade crossing that the Director of Transportation has exempted from
that division because of traffic flow or other considerations or factors.
      (4)   When stop signs are erected pursuant to division (b)(2) or (b)(3)
of this section, the operator of any vehicle shall stop within 50, but not less
than 15, feet from the nearest rail of the railroad tracks and shall exercise
due care before proceeding across such grade crossing.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (b)(4) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within
one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If,
within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of
two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (6)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.61)
§ 432.35 SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES OR EQUIPMENT AT GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (a)   No person shall operate or move any crawler-type tractor, steam
shovel, derrick, roller or any equipment or structure having a normal operating
speed of six or less miles per hour or a vertical body or load clearance of
less than nine inches above the level surface of a roadway, upon or across any
tracks at a railroad grade crossing without first complying with divisions (a)
(1) and (a)(2) of this section.
      (1)   Before making any such crossing, the person operating or moving any
such vehicle or equipment shall first stop the same, and while stopped, the
person shall listen and look in both directions along the track for any
approaching train and for signals indicating the approach of a train, and shall
proceed only upon exercising due care.
      (2)   No such crossing shall be made when warning is given by automatic
signal, crossing gates or a flagperson, or otherwise of the immediate approach
of a railroad train or car.
   (b)   If the normal sustained speed of the vehicle, equipment or structure
is not more than three miles per hour, the person owning, operating or moving
the same shall also give notice of the intended crossing to a station agent or
superintendent of the railroad, and a reasonable time shall be given to the
railroad to provide proper protection for the crossing. Where the vehicles or
equipment are being used in constructing or repairing a section of highway
lying on both sides of a railroad grade crossing, and in this construction or
repair it is necessary to repeatedly move the vehicles or equipment over the
crossing, one daily notice specifying when the work will start and stating the
hours during which it will be prosecuted is sufficient.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (d)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.64)
§ 432.36 OBSTRUCTING INTERSECTIONS, CROSSWALKS OR GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (a)   No driver shall enter an intersection or marked crosswalk, or drive
onto any railroad grade crossing, unless there is sufficient space on the other
side of the intersection, crosswalk or grade crossing to accommodate the
vehicle the driver is operating without obstructing the passage of other
vehicles, pedestrians or railroad trains, notwithstanding any traffic-control
signal indication to proceed.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.712)
§ 432.37 “PEELING”; CRACKING EXHAUST NOISES.
   No person shall operate any motor vehicle, except when necessary for safe
operation, or in compliance with law, in such a manner that the vehicle is so
rapidly accelerated or started from a stopped position, or in the shifting of
gears while in motion, that the exhaust system emits a loud, cracking or
chattering noise unusual to its normal operation, or that the rubber tires of
the vehicle squeal or leave tire marks on the roadway, commonly known as
“peeling”.
§ 432.38 SHORTCUTTING ACROSS PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No operator of a motor vehicle shall enter upon private property for the
sole purpose of driving across that property, between abutting streets or other
public ways thereof. The failure to stop on the property in connection with or
in furtherance of the enterprise or activities being conducted on the property
shall constitute prima facie evidence of the violation.
§ 432.39 ENTERING AND EXITING CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY.
   No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled-access highway
except at such entrances and exits as are established by public authority.
§ 432.40 WEAVING; FULL TIME AND ATTENTION.
   (a)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or motorcycle upon any street
or highway in a weaving or zigzag course unless the irregular course is
necessary for safe operation or in compliance with law.
   (b)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or motorcycle without giving
his or her full time and attention to the operation of the vehicle.
§ 432.41 OPERATION ON PATHS SET ASIDE FOR BICYCLES.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, snowmobile or all-
purpose vehicle upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, when
an appropriate sign giving notice of that use is posted on the path.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect any rule of
the Director of Natural Resources governing the operation of motor vehicles,
snowmobiles, all-purpose vehicles and bicycles on lands under the Director’s
jurisdiction.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.713)
§ 432.42 LITTERING FROM MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (a)   No operator or occupant of a motor vehicle shall, regardless of
intent, throw, drop, discard or deposit litter from any motor vehicle in
operation upon any street, road or highway, except into a litter receptacle in
a manner that prevents its being carried away or deposited by the elements.
   (b)   No operator of a motor vehicle in operation upon any street, road or
highway shall allow litter to be thrown, dropped, discarded or deposited from
the motor vehicle, except into a litter receptacle in a manner that prevents
its being carried away or deposited by the elements.
   (c)   As used in this section, “litter” means garbage, trash, waste,
rubbish, ashes, cans, bottles, wire, paper, cartons, boxes, automobile parts,
furniture, glass or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature.
   (d)   Whoever violates division (a) or (b) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.82)
§ 432.43 USE OF EARPHONES WHILE DRIVING.
   (a)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Earphones.” Any device that covers all or a portion of both ears
and that does either of the following:
         A.   Through either a physical connection to another device or a
wireless connection, provides the listener with radio programs, music, or other
information;
         B.   Provides hearing protection.
      “Earphones” does not include speakers or other listening devices that are
built into protective headgear.
      (2)   “Earplugs.” Any device that can be inserted into one or both ears
and that does either of the following:
         A.   Through either a physical connection to another device or a
wireless connection, provides the listener with radio programs, music, or other
information;
         B.   Provides hearing protection.
   (b)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle while wearing earphones over,
or earplugs in, both ears.
   (c)   This section does not apply to:
      (1)   Any person wearing a hearing aid;
      (2)   Law enforcement personnel while on duty;
      (3)   Fire Department personnel and emergency medical service personnel
while on duty;
      (4)   Any person engaged in the operation of equipment for use in the
maintenance or repair of any highway;
      (5)   Any person engaged in the operation of refuse collection equipment;
      (6)   Any person wearing earphones or earplugs for hearing protection
while operating a motorcycle.
   (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
§ 432.44 SENDING, READING, OR WRITING A TEXT MESSAGE OR ACCESSING THE INTERNET
WHILE DRIVING.
   (a)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Text message” means any message sent, stored or received via
mobile communication device. For the purpose of this section, an email message
shall be considered a text message.
      (2)   “Mobile communication device” means any portable electronic device
capable of transmitting or receiving data in the form of a text message or
capable of accessing the Internet, including, but not limited to, a wireless
telephone, a text-messaging device, a personal digital assistant or a personal
computer, but specifically excluding portable Internet-based vehicle navigation
systems being used for that purpose.
      (3)   “Emergency vehicles” and “public safety vehicles” shall have the
same meaning as set forth in R.C. § 4511.01 (D) and (E).
   (b)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle while using a mobile
communication device to:
      (1)   Manually enter letters, numbers, or text messages or read any
received emails or text messages transmitted to or stored within such device;
or
      (2)   Send, read, create or interact with Internet-based content, play
games or otherwise interact with the internet.
   (c)   This provision shall not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   Operators of emergency or public safety vehicles where the operator
of a public safety device uses such device in the course of the operator’s
official duties;
      (2)   Any person reporting a health or safety emergency;
      (3)   Drivers parked, standing, stopped or removed from the flow of
traffic, or stopped because of an inoperable vehicle;
      (4)   A person reading, selecting or entering a name or telephone number
in an electronic wireless communication device for the purpose of making or
receiving a telephone call; or
      (5)   A person operating a commercial truck while using a mobile data
terminal that transmits and receives data in the course of the person’s
official duties.
   (d)   (1)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause an operator of an motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (b) above has been or is being
committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation or summons for
a violation of that nature or causing the arrest of or commencing a prosecution
of a person for a violation of that nature.
      (2)   No law enforcement officer shall view the interior or visually
inspect any motor vehicle being operated on any street or highway for the sole
purpose of determining whether a violation of that nature has been or is being
committed.
   (e)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 04-2010, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 432.45 USE OF ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATION DEVICES BY MINORS OR
PROBATIONARY DRIVERS WHILE DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No holder of a temporary instruction permit who has not attained the
age of 18 years and no holder of a probationary driver’s license shall drive a
motor vehicle on any street, highway, or property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular traffic or parking while using in any manner an
electronic wireless communications device.
   (b)   Division (a) of this section does not apply to either of the
following:
      (1)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device for
emergency purposes, including an emergency contact with a law enforcement
agency, hospital or health care provider, fire department, or other similar
emergency agency or entity;
      (2)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device whose
motor vehicle is in a stationary position and the motor vehicle is outside a
lane of travel;
      (3)   A person using a navigation device in a voice-operated or hands-
free manner who does not manipulate the device while driving.
   (c)   (1)   Except as provided in division (c)(2) of this section, whoever
violates division (a) of this section shall be fined $150. In addition, the
court shall impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license
or permit for a definite period of 60 days.
      (2)   If the person previously has been adjudicated a delinquent child or
a juvenile traffic offender for a violation of this section, whoever violates
this section shall be fined $300. In addition, the court shall impose a class
seven suspension of the person’s driver’s license or permit for a definite
period of one year.
   (d)   The filing of a sworn complaint against a person for a violation of
this section does not preclude the filing of a sworn complaint for a violation
of R.C. § 4511.205 for the same conduct. However, if a person is adjudicated a
delinquent child or a juvenile traffic offender for a violation of this section
and is also adjudicated a delinquent child or a juvenile traffic offender for a
violation of R.C. § 4511.205 for the same conduct, the two offenses are allied
offenses of similar import under R.C. § 2941.25.
   (e)   As used in this section, “electronic wireless communications device”
includes any of the following:
      (1)   A wireless telephone;
      (2)   A personal digital assistant;
      (3)   A computer, including a laptop computer and a computer tablet;
      (4)   A text-messaging device;
      (5)   Any other substantially similar electronic wireless device that is
designed or used to communicate via voice, image, or written word.
(R.C. § 4511.205)
§ 432.99 PENALTY.
Editor’s note:
   See §§
408.01 and
408.02 for general traffic code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
CHAPTER 434: O.V.I.; RECKLESS OPERATION; SPEED
Section
434.01   Driving or physical control of vehicle while under the influence of
alcohol or drugs.
434.011   Immobilizing or disabling device violation.
434.02   Reckless operation on streets, public or private property.
434.03   Maximum speed limits; assured clear distance ahead.
434.04   Speed limits on private roads and driveways.
434.05   Slow speed; posted minimum speeds.
434.06   Speed limitations over bridges.
434.07   Speed exceptions for emergency or safety vehicles.
434.08   Reasonable control.
434.09   Street racing prohibited.
434.10   Vehicular homicide; vehicular manslaughter; vehicular assault.
434.11   Operation restricted for mini-trucks and low-speed, under-speed, or
utility vehicles.
434.99   Penalty.
Cross-reference:
   Criminal offenses by drivers of commercial vehicles, see §§
442.05,
442.08
   Driving upon sidewalks, tree lawns or curbs, see §
432.24
   Intoxicated pedestrians, see §
416.10
   Liquor consumption in motor vehicle, see §
612.04
   “Peeling”, see §
432.37
   Weaving; full time and attention, see §
432.40
Statutory reference:
   Alcohol defined, see R.C. § 4301.01
   Alteration of prima facie speed limits, see R.C. § 4511.21, 4511.22, 4511.23
   Drug of abuse defined, see R.C. § 3719.011
§ 434.01 DRIVING OR PHYSICAL CONTROL OF VEHICLE WHILE UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF
ALCOHOL OR DRUGS.
   (a)   Driving Under the Influence.
      (1)   No person shall operate any vehicle within this municipality, if,
at the time of the operation, any of the following apply:
         A.   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or
a combination of them.
         B.   The person has a concentration of 0.08% or more but less than
0.17% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
         C.   The person has a concentration of 0.096% or more but less than
0.204% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or
plasma.
         D.   The person has a concentration of 0.08 grams or more but less
than 0.17 grams by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
         E.   The person has a concentration of 0.11 grams or more but less
than 0.238 grams by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s
urine.
         F.   The person has a concentration of 0.17% or more by weight per
unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
         G.   The person has a concentration of 0.204% or more by weight per
unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or plasma.
         H.   The person has a concentration of 0.17 grams or more by weight of
alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
         I.   The person has a concentration of 0.238 grams or more by weight
of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s urine.
         J.   Except as provided in division (k) of this section, the person
has a concentration of any of the following controlled substances or
metabolites of a controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum
or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds any of the following:
            1.   The person has a concentration of amphetamine in the person’s
urine of at least 500 nanograms of amphetamine per milliliter of the person’s
urine or has a concentration of amphetamine in the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma of at least 100 nanograms of amphetamine per milliliter
of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            2.   The person has a concentration of cocaine in the person’s
urine of at least 150 nanograms of cocaine per milliliter of the person’s urine
or has a concentration of cocaine in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma of at least 50 nanograms of cocaine per milliliter of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma.
            3.   The person has a concentration of cocaine metabolite in the
person’s urine of at least 150 nanograms of cocaine metabolite per milliliter
of the person’s urine or has a concentration of cocaine metabolite in the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 50 nanograms of
cocaine metabolite per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma.
            4.   The person has a concentration of heroin in the person’s urine
of at least 2,000 nanograms of heroin per milliliter of the person’s urine or
has a concentration of heroin in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma of at least 50 nanograms of heroin per milliliter of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma.
            5.   The person has a concentration of heroin metabolite (6-
monoacetyl morphine) in the person’s urine of at least ten nanograms of heroin
metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) per milliliter of the person’s urine or has
a concentration of heroin metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) in the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least ten nanograms of heroin
metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) per milliliter of the person’s whole blood
or blood serum or plasma.
            6.   The person has a concentration of L.S.D. in the person’s urine
of at least 25 nanograms of L.S.D. per milliliter of the person’s urine or a
concentration of L.S.D. in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of
at least ten nanograms of L.S.D. per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma.
            7.   The person has a concentration of marihuana in the person’s
urine of at least ten nanograms of marihuana per milliliter of the person’s
urine or has a concentration of marihuana in the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma of at least two nanograms of marihuana per milliliter of the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            8.   Either of the following applies:
               a.   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of
abuse, or a combination of them, and the person has a concentration of
marihuana metabolite in the person’s urine of at least 15 nanograms of
marihuana metabolite per milliliter of the person’s urine or has a
concentration of marihuana metabolite in the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma of at least five nanograms of marihuana metabolite per
milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
               b.   The person has a concentration of marihuana metabolite in
the person’s urine of at least 35 nanograms of marihuana metabolite per
milliliter of the person’s urine or has a concentration of marihuana metabolite
in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 50 nanograms
of marihuana metabolite per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma.
            9.   The person has a concentration of methamphetamine in the
person’s urine of at least 500 nanograms of methamphetamine per milliliter of
the person’s urine or has a concentration of methamphetamine in the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 100 nanograms of
methamphetamine per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma.
            10.   The person has a concentration of phencyclidine in the
person’s urine of at least 25 nanograms of phencyclidine per milliliter of the
person’s urine or has a concentration of phencyclidine in the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma of at least ten nanograms of phencyclidine per
milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            11.   The State Board of Pharmacy has adopted a rule pursuant to
R.C. § 4729.041 that specifies the amount of salvia divinorum and the amount of
salvinorin A that constitute concentrations of salvia divinorum and salvinorin
A in a person’s urine, in a person’s whole blood, or in a person’s blood serum
or plasma at or above which the person is impaired for purposes of operating
any vehicle within this state, the rule is in effect, and the person has a
concentration of salvia divinorum or salvinorin A of at least that amount so
specified by rule in the person’s urine, in the person’s whole blood, or in the
person’s blood serum or plasma.
      (2)   No person who, within 20 years of the conduct described in division
(a)(2)A. of this section, previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to
a violation of this division or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, division (a)(1) or (b) of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or shall do both of the following:
         A.   Operate any vehicle within this municipality while under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them;
         B.   Subsequent to being arrested for operating the vehicle as
described in division (a)(2)A. of this section, being asked by a law
enforcement officer to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and being advised by the
officer in accordance with R.C. § 4511.192 or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance of the consequences of the person’s refusal or submission
to the test or tests, refuse to submit to the test or tests.
   (b)   Underage Alcohol Consumption. No person under 21 years of age shall
operate any vehicle within this municipality if, at the time of the operation,
any of the following apply:
      (1)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.02% but less than
0.08% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood;
      (2)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.03% but less than
0.096% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or
plasma;
      (3)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.02 grams but less than
0.08 grams by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath;
      (4)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.028 grams but less
than 0.11 grams by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s urine.
   (c)   Prosecution; Limitation on Convictions. In any proceeding arising out
of one incident, a person may be charged with a violation of division (a)(1)A.
or (a)(2) and a violation of division (b)(1), (b)(2) or (b)(3) of this section,
but the person may not be convicted of more than one violation of these
divisions.
   (d)   Evidence; Tests.
      (1)   A.   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of division (a)(1)A. of this section or for an equivalent offense
that is vehicle-related, the result of any test of any blood or urine withdrawn
and analyzed at any health care provider, as defined in R.C. § 2317.02, may be
admitted with expert testimony to be considered with any other relevant and
competent evidence in determining the guilt or innocence of the defendant.
         B.   In any criminal prosecution for a violation of division (a) or
(b) of this section or for an equivalent offense that is vehicle-related, the
court may admit evidence on the concentration of alcohol, drugs of abuse,
controlled substances, metabolites of a controlled substance or a combination
of them in the defendant’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, urine or
other bodily substance at the time of the alleged violation as shown by
chemical analysis of the substance withdrawn within three hours of the time of
the alleged violation. The three-hour time limit specified in this division
regarding the admission of evidence does not extend or affect the two-hour time
limit specified in R.C. § 4511.192(A) as the maximum period of time during
which a person may consent to a chemical test or tests as described in that
section. The court may admit evidence on the concentration of alcohol, drugs of
abuse, or a combination of them as described in this division when a person
submits to a blood test at the request of a law enforcement officer under R.C.
§ 4511.191 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or a blood or
urine sample is obtained pursuant to a search warrant. Only a physician, a
registered nurse, an emergency medical technician-intermediate, an emergency
medical technician-paramedic, or a qualified technician, chemist or
phlebotomist shall withdraw a blood sample for the purpose of determining the
alcohol, drug, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or
combination content of the whole blood, blood serum or blood plasma. This
limitation does not apply to the taking of breath or urine specimens. A person
authorized to withdraw blood under this division may refuse to withdraw blood
under this division, if in that person’s opinion, the physical welfare of the
person would be endangered by the withdrawing of blood. The bodily substance
withdrawn under this division (d)(1)B. shall be analyzed in accordance with
methods approved by the Director of Health by an individual possessing a valid
permit issued by the Director pursuant to R.C. § 3701.143.
         C.   As used in division (d)(1)B. of this section, “Emergency medical
technician-intermediate” and “Emergency medical technician-paramedic” have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 4765.01.
      (2)   In a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (a) of this
section or for an equivalent offense that is vehicle-related, if there was at
the time the bodily substance was withdrawn a concentration of less than the
applicable concentration of alcohol specified in divisions (a)(1)B., (a)(1)C.,
(a)(1)D. and (a)(1)E. of this section or less than the applicable concentration
of a listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled
substance specified for a violation of division (a)(1)J. of this section, that
fact may be considered with other competent evidence in determining the guilt
or innocence of the defendant. This division does not limit or affect a
criminal prosecution for a violation of division (b) of this section.
      (3)   Upon the request of the person who was tested, the results of the
chemical test shall be made available to the person or the person’s attorney,
immediately upon the completion of the chemical test analysis. If the chemical
test was obtained pursuant to division (d)(1)B. of this section, the person
tested may have a physician, a registered nurse or a qualified technician,
chemist or phlebotomist of the person’s own choosing administer a chemical test
or tests, at the person’s expense, in addition to any administered at the
request of a law enforcement officer. If the person was under arrest as
described in R.C. § 4511.191(A)(5), the arresting officer shall advise the
person at the time of the arrest that the person may have an independent
chemical test taken at the person’s own expense. If the person was under arrest
other than described in R.C. § 4511.191(A)(5), the form to be read to the
person to be tested, as required under division (g) of this section, shall
state that the person may have an independent test performed at the person’s
expense. The failure or inability to obtain an additional chemical test by a
person shall not preclude the admission of evidence relating to the chemical
test or tests taken at the request of a law enforcement officer.
      (4)   A.   As used in division (d)(4)B. and (d)(4)C. of this section,
“National Highway Traffic Safety Administration” means the National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration established as an administration of the United
States Department of Transportation under 96 Stat. 2415 (1983), 49 U.S.C. 105.
         B.   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of division (a) or (b) of this section, of a municipal ordinance
relating to operating a vehicle while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of
abuse, or alcohol and a drug of abuse, or of a municipal ordinance relating to
operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled
substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath, or urine, if a law enforcement officer has
administered a field sobriety test to the operator of the vehicle involved in
the violation and if it is shown by clear and convincing evidence that the
officer administered the test in substantial compliance with the testing
standards for any reliable, credible and generally accepted field sobriety
tests that were in effect at the time the tests were administered, including
but not limited to any testing standards then in effect that were set by the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, all of the following apply:
            1.   The officer may testify concerning the results of the field
sobriety test so administered.
            2.   The prosecution may introduce the results of the field
sobriety test so administered as evidence in any proceedings in the criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding.
            3.   If testimony is presented or evidence is introduced under
division (d)(4)B.1. or (d)(4)B.2. of this section and if the testimony or
evidence is admissible under the Rules of Evidence, the court shall admit the
testimony or evidence and the trier of fact shall give it whatever weight the
trier of fact considers to be appropriate.
         C.   Division (d)(4)B. of this section does not limit or preclude a
court, in its determination of whether the arrest of a person was supported by
probable cause or its determination of any other matter in a criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding of a type described in that division,
from considering evidence or testimony that is not otherwise disallowed by
division (d)(4)B. of this section.
   (e)   Laboratory Report.
      (1)   Subject to division (e)(3) of this section, in any criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a violation of division (a)(1)B.,
(a)(1)C., (a)(1)D., (a)(1)E., (a)(1)F., (a)(1)G., (a)(1)H., (a)(1)I. or (a)
(1)J. or (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(3) or (b)(4) of this section or for an equivalent
offense that is substantially equivalent to any of those divisions, a
laboratory report from any laboratory personnel issued a permit by the
Department of Health authorizing an analysis as described in this division that
contains an analysis of the whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, urine
or other bodily substance tested and that contains all of the information
specified in this division shall be admitted as prima facie evidence of the
information and statements that the report contains. The laboratory report
shall contain all of the following:
         A.   The signature, under oath, of any person who performed the
analysis;
         B.   Any findings as to the identity and quantity of alcohol, a drug
of abuse, a controlled substance, a metabolite of a controlled substance, or a
combination of them that was found;
         C.   A copy of a notarized statement by the laboratory director or a
designee of the director that contains the name of each certified analyst or
test performer involved with the report, the analyst’s or test performer’s
employment relationship with the laboratory that issued the report, and a
notation that performing an analysis of the type involved is part of the
analyst’s or test performer’s regular duties;
         D.   An outline of the analyst’s or test performer’s education,
training and experience in performing the type of analysis involved and a
certification that the laboratory satisfies appropriate quality control
standards in general and, in this particular analysis, under rules of the
Department of Health.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law regarding the admission
of evidence, a report of the type described in division (e)(1) of this section
is not admissible against the defendant to whom it pertains in any proceeding,
other than a preliminary hearing or a grand jury proceeding, unless the
prosecutor has served a copy of the report on the defendant’s attorney or, if
the defendant has no attorney, on the defendant.
      (3)   A report of the type described in division (e)(1) of this section
shall not be prima facie evidence of the contents, identity or amount of any
substance if, within seven days after the defendant to whom the report pertains
or the defendant’s attorney receives a copy of the report, the defendant or the
defendant’s attorney demands the testimony of the person who signed the report.
The judge in the case may extend the seven-day time limit in the interest of
justice.
   (f)   Limitation of Liability.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, any physician,
registered nurse, emergency medical technician-intermediate, emergency medical
technician-paramedic, or qualified technician, chemist or phlebotomist who
withdraws blood from a person pursuant to this section or R.C. §§ 4511.19,
4511.191 or 4511.192, and any hospital, first-aid station or clinic at which
blood is withdrawn from a person pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.19,
4511.191 or 4511.192, is immune from criminal liability and civil liability
based upon a claim of assault and battery or any other claim that is not a
claim of malpractice, for any act performed in withdrawing blood from the
person. The immunity provided in this division also extends to an emergency
medical service organization that employs an emergency medical technician-
intermediate or emergency medical technician-paramedic who withdraws blood
under this section. The immunity provided in this division is not available to
a person who withdraws blood if the person engages in willful or wanton
misconduct.
      (2)   As used in division (f)(1), “Emergency medical technician-
intermediate” and “Emergency medical technician-paramedic” have the same
meanings as in R.C. § 4765.01.
(R.C. § 4511.19(A) - (F))
   (g)   Implied Consent.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this division (g), the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         A.   “Alcohol monitoring device.” Any device that provides for
continuous alcohol monitoring, any ignition interlock device, any immobilizing
or disabling device other than an ignition interlock device that is constantly
available to monitor the concentration of alcohol in a person’s system, or any
other device that provides for the automatic testing and periodic reporting of
alcohol consumption by a person and that a court orders a person to use as a
sanction imposed as a result of the person’s conviction of or plea of guilty to
an offense.
         B.   “Community addiction services provider.” Has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 5119.01.
         C.   “Physical control.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.194.
      (2)   Implied Consent to Chemical Tests. Any person who operates a
vehicle upon a highway or any public or private property used by the public for
vehicular travel or parking within this municipality or who is in physical
control of a vehicle shall be deemed to have given consent to a chemical test
or tests of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine
to determine the alcohol, drug of abuse, controlled substance, metabolite of a
controlled substance, or combination content of the person’s whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath, or urine if arrested for a violation of division (a),
(b) or (o) of this section, R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), 4511.194 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or any other municipal O.V.I.
ordinance.
      (3)   Tests at Request of Law Enforcement Agent. The chemical test or
tests under division (g)(2) of this section shall be administered at the
request of a law enforcement officer having reasonable grounds to believe the
person was operating or in physical control of a vehicle in violation of a
division, section or ordinance identified in division (g)(2) of this section.
The law enforcement agency by which the officer is employed shall designate
which of the tests shall be administered.
      (4)   Effect of Death or Unconsciousness. Any person who is dead or
unconscious, or who otherwise is in a condition rendering the person incapable
of refusal, shall be deemed to have consented as provided in division (g)(2) of
this section and the test or tests may be administered, subject to R.C. §
313.12 to 313.16.
      (5)   Chemical Tests.
         A.   If a law enforcement officer arrests a person for a violation of
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, or a municipal O.V.I. ordinance and if the person if convicted would
be required to be sentenced under R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(c), (G)(1)(d) or (G)(1)
(e), the law enforcement officer shall request the person to submit, and the
person shall submit, to a chemical test or tests of the person’s whole blood,
blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine for the purpose of determining the
alcohol, drug of abuse, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled
substance, or combination content of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or
plasma, breath, or urine. A law enforcement officer who makes a request
pursuant to this division that a person submit to a chemical test or tests is
not required to advise the person of the consequences of submitting to, or
refusing to submit to, the test or tests and is not required to give the person
the form described in division (g)(7) of this section, but the officer shall
advise the person at the time of the arrest that if the person refuses to take
a chemical test the officer may employ whatever reasonable means are necessary
to ensure that the person submits to a chemical test of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma. The officer shall also advise the person at the
time of the arrest that the person may have an independent chemical test taken
at the person’s own expense. Divisions (g)(3) and (g)(4) of this section apply
to the administration of a chemical test or tests pursuant to this division.
         B.   If a person refuses to submit to a chemical test upon a request
made pursuant to division (g)(5)A. of this section, the law enforcement officer
who made the request may employ whatever reasonable means are necessary to
ensure that the person submits to a chemical test of the person’s whole blood
or blood serum or plasma. A law enforcement officer who acts pursuant to this
division to ensure that a person submits to a chemical test of the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma is immune from criminal and civil
liability based upon a claim for assault and battery or any other claim for the
acts, unless the officer so acted with malicious purpose, in bad faith, or in a
wanton or reckless manner.
(R.C. § 4511.191(A))
      (6)   Advice Required. Except as provided in division (g)(5) of this
section, the arresting law enforcement officer shall give advice in accordance
with this division to any person under arrest for a violation of division (a),
(b) or (o) of this section, R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), 4511.194 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or any other municipal O.V.I.
ordinance. The officer shall give that advice in a written form that contains
the information described in division (g)(7) of this section and shall read the
advice to the person. The form shall contain a statement that the form was
shown to the person under arrest and read to the person by the arresting
officer. One or more persons shall witness the arresting officer’s reading of
the form, and the witnesses shall certify to this fact by signing the form. The
person must submit to the chemical test or tests, subsequent to the request of
the arresting officer, within two hours of the time of the alleged violation
and, if the person does not submit to the test or tests  within that two-hour
time limit, the failure to submit automatically constitutes a refusal to submit
to the test or tests.
      (7)   Certification of Arrest. Except as provided in division (g)(5) of
this section, if a person is under arrest as described in division (g)(6) of
this section, before the person may be requested to submit to a chemical test
or tests to determine the alcohol, drug of abuse, controlled substance,
metabolite of a controlled substance or combination content of the person’s
whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath or urine, the arresting officer
shall read the following form to the person:
         “You now are under arrest for (specifically state the offense under
state law or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance for which the
person was arrested – operating a vehicle under the influence of alcohol, a
drug, or a combination of them; operating a vehicle while under the influence
of a listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled
substance; operating a vehicle after underage alcohol consumption; or having
physical control of a vehicle while under the influence).
         “If you refuse to take any chemical test required by law, your Ohio
driving privileges will be suspended immediately, and you will have to pay a
fee to have the privileges reinstated. If you have a prior conviction of
O.V.I., O.V.U.A.C., or operating a vehicle while under the influence of a
listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance
under state or municipal law within the preceding 20 years, you are now under
arrest for state O.V.I., and, if you refuse to take a chemical test, you will
face increased penalties if you subsequently are convicted of the state O.V.I.
         (Read this part unless the person is under arrest for solely having
physical control of a vehicle while under the influence.) “If you take any
chemical test required by law and are found to be at or over the prohibited
amount of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled
substance in your whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine as set
by law, your Ohio driving privileges will be suspended immediately, and you
will have to pay a fee to have the privileges reinstated.
         “If you take a chemical test, you may have an independent chemical
test taken at your own expense.”
      (8)   Actions Required by Arresting Officer. If the arresting law
enforcement officer does not ask a person under arrest as described in division
(g)(5) of this section or division (g)(6) of this section to submit to a
chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191 or this section, the arresting
officer shall seize the Ohio or out-of-state driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or permit of the person and immediately forward it to the court in
which the arrested person is to appear on the charge. If the arrested person is
not in possession of the person’s license or permit or it is not in the
person’s vehicle, the officer shall order the person to surrender it to the law
enforcement agency that employs the officer within 24 hours after the arrest,
and, upon the surrender, the agency immediately shall forward the  license or
permit to the court in which the person is to appear on the charge. Upon
receipt of the license or permit, the court shall retain it pending the
arrested person’s initial appearance and any action taken under R.C. §
4511.196.
      (9)   Duties of Officer.
         A.   If a law enforcement officer asks a person under arrest as
described in division (g)(5) of this section to submit to a chemical test or
tests under that division and the test results indicate a prohibited
concentration of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma,
breath, or urine at the time of the alleged offense, or if a law enforcement
officer asks a person under arrest as described in division (g)(6) of this
section to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191 or this
section, if the officer advises the person in accordance with this section of
the consequences of the person’s refusal or submission, and if either the
person refuses to submit to the test or tests or, unless the arrest was for a
violation of division (o) of this section, R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the person submits to the test or tests and the
test results indicate a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled
substance or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the person’s whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath or urine at the time of the alleged
offense, the arresting officer shall do all of the following:
            1.   On behalf of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, notify the
person that, independent of any penalties or sanctions imposed upon the person,
the person’s Ohio driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege is suspended immediately, that the suspension
will last at least until the person’s initial appearance on the charge, which
will be held within five days after the date of the person’s arrest or the
issuance of a citation to the person, and that the person may appeal the
suspension at the initial appearance or during the period of time ending 30
days after that initial appearance;
            2.   Seize the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit of
the person and immediately forward it to the Registrar. If the arrested person
is not in possession of the person’s license or permit or it is not in the
person’s vehicle, the officer shall order the person to surrender it to the law
enforcement agency that employs the officer within 24 hours after the person is
given notice of the suspension, and, upon the surrender, the officer’s
employing agency immediately shall forward the license or permit to the
Registrar;
            3.   Verify the person’s current residence and, if it differs from
that on the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit, notify
the Registrar of the change;
            4.   Send to the Registrar, within 48 hours after the arrest of the
person, a sworn report that includes all of the following statements:
               a.   That the officer had reasonable grounds to believe that, at
the time of the arrest, the arrested person was operating a vehicle in
violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B) or a municipal O.V.I. ordinance or for
being in physical control of a stationary vehicle in violation of R.C. §
4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
               b.   That the person was arrested and charged with a violation
of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, or a municipal O.V.I. ordinance;
               c.   Unless division (g)(9)A.4.e. of this section applies, that
the officer asked the person to take the designated chemical test or tests,
advised the person in accordance with this section of the consequences of
submitting to, or refusing to take, the test or tests, and gave the person the
form described in division (g)(7) of this section;
               d.   Unless division (g)(9)A.4.e. of this section applies, that
either the person refused to submit to the chemical test or tests or, unless
the arrest was for a violation of R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, the person submitted to the chemical test or tests and the
test results indicate a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled
substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the person’s whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath or urine at the time of the alleged
offense;
               e.   If the person was under arrest as described in division (g)
(5) of this section and the chemical test or tests were performed in accordance
with that division, that the person was under arrest as described in that
division, that the chemical test or tests were performed in accordance with
that division, and that test results indicated a prohibited concentration of
alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in
the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine at the time
of the alleged offense.
         B.   Division (g)(9)A. of this section does not apply to a person who
is arrested for a violation of division (o) of this section, R.C. § 4511.194 or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or any other substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, who is asked by a law enforcement officer to
submit to a chemical test or tests under this section, and who submits to the
test or tests, regardless of the amount of alcohol, a controlled substance, or
a metabolite of a controlled substance that the test results indicate is
present in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath or urine.
      (10)   Sworn Report of Arresting Officer.
         A.   The arresting officer shall give the officer’s sworn report that
is completed under this section to the arrested person at the time of the
arrest, or the Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall send the report to the person
by regular first-class mail as soon as possible after receipt of the report,
but not later than 14 days after receipt of it. An arresting officer may give
an unsworn report to the arrested person at the time of the arrest, provided
the report is complete when given to the arrested person and subsequently is
sworn to by the arresting officer. As soon as possible, but not later than 48
hours after the arrest of the person, the arresting officer shall send a copy
of the sworn report to the court in which the arrested person is to appear on
the charge for which the person was arrested.
         B.   The sworn report of an arresting officer completed under this
section is prima facie proof of the information and statements that it
contains. It shall be admitted and considered as prima facie proof of the
information and statements that it contains in any appeal under R.C. § 4511.197
relative to any suspension of a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or permit or nonresident operating privilege that results from the
arrest covered by the report.
(R.C. § 4511.192)
      (11)   Suspension Effective Immediately. A suspension of a person’s
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating
privilege under this section for the time described in R.C. § 4511.191(B) or
(C) is effective immediately from the time at which the arresting officer
serves the notice of suspension upon the arrested person. Any subsequent
finding that the person is not guilty of the charge that resulted in the
person’s being requested to take the chemical test or tests under division (g)
(1) through (g)(5) of this section does not affect the suspension.
      (12)   Initial Appearance. If a person arrested for operating a vehicle
in violation of division (a) or (b) of this section, R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B),
or any other municipal O.V.I. ordinance, or for being in physical control of a
vehicle in violation of division (o) of this section or R.C. § 4511.194 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, regardless of whether the
person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privilege is or is not suspended under R.C. § 4511.191(B) or (C) or
R.C. Chapter 4510, the person’s initial appearance on the charge resulting from
the arrest shall be held within five days of the person’s arrest or the
issuance of the citation to him or her, subject to any continuance granted by
the court pursuant to R.C. § 4511.197 regarding the issues specified in that
section.
(R.C. § 4511.191(D))
   (h)   Penalty for Driving Under the Influence.
      (1)   Whoever violates any provisions of divisions (a)(1)A. through (a)
(1)I. or (a)(2) of this section is guilty of operating a vehicle under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them. Whoever
violates division (a)(1)J. of this section is guilty of operating a vehicle
while under the influence of a listed controlled substance or a listed
metabolite of a controlled substance. The court shall sentence the offender for
either offense under R.C. Chapter 2929, except as otherwise authorized or
required by divisions (h)(1)A. through (h)(1)E. of this section:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (h)(1)B., (h)(1)C., (h)
(1)D. or (h)(1)E. of this section, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the first degree and the court shall sentence the offender to all of the
penalties and sanctions provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(a)(i) to (G)(1)(a)
(iv).
         B.   Except as otherwise provided in division (h)(1)E. of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of division (a) or (b) of this
section, or one other equivalent offense is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the penalties and
sanctions provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(b)(i) to (G)(1)(b)(v).
         C.   Except as otherwise provided in division (h)(1)E. of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division (a) or (b) of this
section or other equivalent offenses is guilty of a misdemeanor. The court
shall sentence the offender to all of the penalties and sanctions provided in
R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(c)(i) to (G)(1)(c)(vi).
         D.   Except as otherwise provided in division (h)(1)E. of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of division (a) or
(b) of this section or other equivalent offenses or an offender who, within 20
years of the offense, previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to
five or more violations of that nature is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
         E.   An offender who previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) that was a felony, regardless of
when the violation and the conviction or guilty plea occurred, is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   An offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (a) of this section and who subsequently seeks reinstatement of the
driver’s or occupational driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating
privilege suspended under this section or R.C. § 4511.19 as a result of the
conviction or guilty plea shall pay a reinstatement fee as provided in R.C. §
4511.191(F)(2).
      (3)   A.   If an offender is sentenced to a jail term under R.C. §
4511.19(G)(1)(b)(i) or (G)(1)(b)(ii) or (G)(1)(c)(i) or (G)(1)(c)(ii) and if,
within 60 days of sentencing of the offender, the court issues a written
finding on the record that, due to the unavailability of space at the jail
where the offender is required to serve the term, the offender will not be able
to begin serving that term within the 60-day period following the date of
sentencing, the court may impose an alternative sentence as specified in R.C. §
4511.19(G)(3) that includes a term of house arrest with electronic monitoring,
with continuous alcohol monitoring, or with both electronic monitoring and
continuous alcohol monitoring.
         B.   As an alternative to the mandatory jail terms as required by R.C.
§ 4511.19(G)(1), the court may sentence the offender as provided in R.C. §
4511.19(G)(3).
      (4)   If an offender’s driver’s or occupational driver’s license or
permit or nonresident operating privilege is suspended under division (h) of
this section or R.C. § 4511.19(G) and if R.C. § 4510.13 permits the court to
grant limited driving privileges, the court may grant the limited driving
privileges in accordance with that section. If division (A)(7) of that section
requires the court impose as a condition of the privileges that the offender
must display on the vehicle that is driven subject to the privileges restricted
license plates that are issued under R.C. § 4503.231, except as provided in
division (B) of that section, the court shall impose that condition as one of
the conditions of the limited driving privileges granted to the offender,
except as provided in R.C. § 4503.231(B).
      (5)   Fines imposed under this section for a violation of division (a) of
this section shall be distributed as provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(5).
      (6)   If title to a motor vehicle that is subject to an order of criminal
forfeiture under division (h)(1)C., (h)(1)D. or (h)(1)E. of this section is
assigned or transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, in
addition to or independent of any other penalty established by law, the court
may fine the offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of
the National Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds of any fine so
imposed shall be distributed in accordance with division (C)(2) of that
section.
      (7)   In all cases in which an offender is sentenced under division (h)
of this section, the offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, the court, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, may order restitution pursuant to §
698.02(f) or R.C. § 2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for
any economic loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and
proximate result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or
after committing the offense for which the offender is sentenced under division
(h) of this section.
      (8)   As used in division (h) of this section, “electronic monitoring”
has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   (i)   Penalty for Operating a Vehicle after Underage Alcohol Consumption.
Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of operating a motor
vehicle after underage alcohol consumption and shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (i)(2) of this section,
the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. In addition to
any other sanction imposed for the offense, the court shall impose a class six
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege form the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6). The court may grant
limited driving privileges relative to the suspension under R.C. § 4510.021 and
4510.13. The court may grant unlimited driving privileges with an ignition
interlock device relative to the suspension and may reduce the period of
suspension as authorized under R.C. § 4510.022. If the court grants unlimited
driving privileges under R.C. § 4510.022, the court shall suspend any jail term
imposed under division (i)(1) of this section as required under that section.
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of division (a)
or (b) of this section or other equivalent offense or offenses, the offender is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree. In addition to any other sanction
imposed for the offense, the court shall impose a class four suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4). The court may grant limited driving
privileges relative to the suspension under R.C. § 4510.021 and 4510.13.
      (3)   If the offender also is convicted of or also pleads guilty to a
specification of the type described in R.C. § 2941.1414 and if the court
imposes a jail term for the violation of division (b) of this section, the
court shall impose upon the offender an additional definite jail term pursuant
to R.C. § 2929.24(E).
      (4)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
698.02(f) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after
committing the violation of division (b) of this section.
   (j)   Treatment Programs.
      (1)   No court shall sentence an offender to an alcohol treatment program
under this section unless the treatment program complies with the minimum
standards for alcohol treatment programs adopted under R.C. Chapter 5119 by the
Director of Mental Health and Addiction Services.
      (2)   An offender who stays in a drivers’ intervention program or in an
alcohol treatment program under an order issued under this section shall pay
the cost of the stay in the program. However, if the court determines that an
offender who stays in an alcohol treatment program under an order issued under
this section is unable to pay the cost of the stay in the program, the court
may order that the cost be paid from the court’s Indigent Drivers’ Alcohol
Treatment Fund.
   (k)   Appeal; Effect on Suspension. If a person whose driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege is suspended
under this section or R.C. § 4511.19 files an appeal regarding any aspect of
the person’s trial or sentence, the appeal itself does not stay the operation
of the suspension.
   (l)   Exception; Direction of Health Professional. Division (a)(1)J. of this
section does not apply to a person who operates a vehicle while the person has
a concentration of a listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or
urine that equals or exceeds the amount specified in that division, if both of
the following apply:
      (1)   The person obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs.
      (2)   The person injected, ingested or inhaled the controlled substance
in accordance with the health professional’s directions.
   (m)   Applicability to R.C. § 2923.16(D). The prohibited concentrations of a
controlled substance or a metabolite of a controlled substance listed in
division (a)(1)J. of this section also apply in a prosecution of a violation of
R.C. § 2923.16(D) in the same manner as if the offender is being prosecuted for
a prohibited concentration of alcohol.
   (n)   Applicability of Terms. All terms defined in R.C. § 4510.01 apply to
this section. If the meaning of a term defined in R.C. § 4510.01 conflicts with
the meaning of the same term as defined in R.C. § 4501.01 or 4511.01, the term
as defined in R.C. § 4510.01 applies to this section.
   (o)   Physical Control of Vehicle While under the Influence.
      (1)   Definition. As used in this division (o), “physical control” means
being in the driver’s position of the front seat of a vehicle and having
possession of the vehicle’s ignition key or other ignition device.
      (2)   Generally. No person shall be in physical control of a vehicle if,
at the time of the physical control, any of the following apply:
         A.   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or
a combination of them.
         B.   The person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath or urine
contains at least the concentration of alcohol specified in divisions (a)(1)B.,
(a)(1)C., (a)(1)D. or (a)(1)E. of this section.
         C.   Except as provided in division (o)(5) of this section, the person
has a concentration of a listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of
a controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or
urine that equals or exceeds the concentration specified in division (a)(1)J.
of this section.
      (3)   Field Sobriety Test.
         A.   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of this section, if a law enforcement officer has administered a
field sobriety test to the person in physical control of the vehicle involved
in the violation and if it is shown by clear and convincing evidence that the
officer administered the test in substantial compliance with the testing
standards for any reliable, credible and generally acceptable field sobriety
tests that were in effect at the time the tests were administered, including
but not limited to any testing standards then in effect that were set by the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, all of the following apply:
            1.   The officer may testify concerning the results of the field
sobriety test so administered.
            2.   The prosecution may introduce the results of the field
sobriety test so administered as evidence in any proceedings in the criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding.
            3.   If testimony is presented or evidence is introduced under
division (o)(3)A.1. or (o)(3)A.2. of this section and if the testimony or
evidence is admissible under the Rules of Evidence, the court shall admit the
testimony or evidence, and the trier of fact shall give it whatever weight the
trier of fact considers to be appropriate.
         B.   Division (o)(3)A. of this section does not limit or preclude a
court, in its determination of whether the arrest of a person was supported by
probable cause or its determination of any other matter in a criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding of a type described in that division,
from considering evidence or testimony that is not otherwise disallowed by
division (o)(3)A. of this section.
      (4)   Penalty. Whoever violates this division (o) is guilty of having
physical control of a vehicle while under the influence, a misdemeanor of the
first degree. In addition to other sanctions imposed, the court may impose on
the offender a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license
or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02
(A)(7).
      (5)   Exception. Division (o)(2)C. of this section does not apply to a
person who is in physical control of a vehicle while the person has a
concentration of a listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or
urine that equals or exceeds the amount specified in division (a)(1)J. of this
section if both of the following apply:
         A.   The person obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs.
         B.   The person injected, ingested or inhaled the controlled substance
in accordance with the health professional’s directions.
(R.C. § 4511.194)
   (p)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   “Community residential sanction,” “continuous alcohol monitoring,”
“jail,” “mandatory prison term,” “mandatory term of local incarceration,”
“prison term” and “sanction.” Have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      (2)   “Drug of abuse.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4506.01.
      (3)   “Equivalent offense.” Any of the following:
         A.   A violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B);
         B.   A violation of a municipal O.V.I. ordinance;
         C.   A violation of R.C. § 2903.04 in a case in which the offender was
subject to the sanctions described in division (D) of that section;
         D.   A violation of R.C. § 2903.06(A)(1) or 2903.08 or a municipal
ordinance that is substantially equivalent to either of those divisions;
         E.   A violation of R.C. § 2903.06(A)(2), (A)(3) or (A)(4), 2903.08(A)
(2), or former R.C. § 2903.07, or a municipal ordinance that is substantially
equivalent to any of those divisions or that former section, in a case in which
a judge or jury as the trier of fact found that the offender was under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them;
         F.   A violation of R.C. § 1547.11(A) or (B);
         G.   A violation of a municipal ordinance prohibiting a person from
operating or being in physical control of any vessel underway or from
manipulating any water skis, aquaplane or similar device on the waters of this
state while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination
of them or prohibiting a person from operating or being in physical control of
any vessel underway or from manipulating any water skis, aquaplane or similar
device on the waters of this state with a prohibited concentration of alcohol,
a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine;
         H.   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance, law of
another state, or law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B) or 1547.11(A) or (B);
         I.   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B) or 1547.11(A) or (B).
      (4)   “Equivalent offense that is vehicle-related.” An equivalent offense
that is any of the following:
         A.   A violation described in division A., B., C., D. or E. of the
definition for “equivalent offense” provided in this division (p);
         B.   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance, law of
another state, or law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B);
         C.   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B).
      (5)   “Mandatory jail term.” The mandatory term in jail of three, six,
ten, 20, 30 or 60 days that must be imposed under R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(a), (G)
(1)(b), or (G)(1)(c) upon an offender convicted of a violation of division (A)
of that section and in relation to which all of the following apply:
         A.   Except as specifically authorized under R.C. § 4511.19, the term
must be served in a jail.
         B.   Except as specifically authorized under R.C. § 4511.19, the term
cannot be suspended, reduced or otherwise modified pursuant to R.C. § 2929.21
through 2929.28 or any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
      (6)   “Municipal O.V.I. ordinance” and “municipal O.V.I. offense.” Any
municipal ordinance prohibiting a person from operating a vehicle while under
the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them or
prohibiting a person from operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration
of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance
in the whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath or urine.
(R.C. § 4511.181)
Statutory references:
   Continuous alcohol monitoring, see R.C. § 4511.198
   Disposition of fines, immobilization of vehicle and impoundment of license
plates, criminal forfeiture for municipal ordinance conviction, see R.C. §
4511.193
   Effect of refusal to submit to test, seizure of license, suspension periods,
appeal procedures, occupational driving privileges, and Indigent Drivers’
Alcohol Treatment Funds, see R.C. § 4511.191
   Judicial pretrial suspension, initial appearance, see R.C. § 4511.196
   Mayor’s Court to suspend driver’s license, see R.C. § 1905.201
   Seizure of vehicles upon arrest, see R.C. § 4511.195
   Trial judge to suspend driver’s license, see R.C. § 4510.05
§ 434.011 IMMOBILIZING OR DISABLING DEVICE VIOLATION.
   (a)   (1)   No offender who has been granted limited or unlimited driving
privileges, during any period that the offender is required to operate only a
motor vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device, shall request
or permit any other person to breathe into the device if it is an ignition
interlock device or another type of device that monitors the concentration of
alcohol in a person’s breath or to otherwise start the motor vehicle equipped
with the device, for the purpose of providing the offender with an operable
motor vehicle.
      (2)   No person shall breathe into an immobilizing or disabling device
that is an ignition interlock device or another type of device that monitors
the concentration of alcohol in a person’s breath or otherwise start a motor
vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device, for the purpose of
providing an operable motor vehicle to another person who has been granted
limited or unlimited driving privileges under the condition that the person
operate only a motor vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device.
      (3)   No unauthorized person shall tamper with or circumvent the
operation of an immobilizing or disabling device.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of an immobilizing or
disabling device violation, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4510.44)
§ 434.02 RECKLESS OPERATION ON STREETS, PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (a)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any street or highway in willful
or wanton disregard of the safety of persons or property.
   (b)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any public or private
property other than streets or highways in willful or wanton disregard of the
safety of persons or property.
      (2)   Division (b)(1) of this section does not apply to the competitive
operation of vehicles on public or private property when the owner of the
property knowingly permits such operation thereon.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates any
provision of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year
of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates any
provision of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If,
within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of
two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates any
provision of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.20, 4511.201)
§ 434.03 MAXIMUM SPEED LIMITS; ASSURED CLEAR DISTANCE AHEAD.
   (a)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle at a speed greater or less
than is reasonable or proper, having due regard for the traffic, surface and
width of the street or highway and any other conditions, and no person shall
drive any motor vehicle in and upon any street or highway at a greater speed
than will permit him or her to bring it to a stop within the assured clear
distance ahead.
   (b)   It is prima facie lawful, in the absence of a lower limit declared or
established pursuant to this section by the Director of Transportation or local
authorities, for the operator of a motor vehicle to operate the same at a speed
not exceeding the following:
      (1)   A.   Twenty miles per hour in school zones during school recess and
while children are going to or leaving school during the opening or closing
hours, and when 20 miles per hour school speed limit signs are erected, except
that on controlled-access highways and expressways, if the right-of-way line
fence has been erected without pedestrian opening, the speed shall be governed
by division (b)(4) of this section, and on freeways, if the right-of-way line
fence has been erected without pedestrian opening, the speed shall be governed
by divisions (b)(10) and (b)(11) of this section. The end of every school zone
may be marked by a sign indicating the end of the zone. Nothing in this section
or in the Manual and Specifications for a Uniform System of Traffic-Control
Devices shall be construed to require school zones to be indicated by signs
equipped with flashing or other lights, or giving other special notice of the
hours in which the school zone speed limit is in effect.
         B.   As used in this section, "school" means all of the following:
            1.   Any school chartered under R.C. § 3301.16;
            2.   Any nonchartered school that during the preceding year filed
with the Department of Education in compliance with O.A.C. 3301-35-08, a copy
of the school's report for the parents of the school's pupils certifying that
the school meets state minimum standards for nonchartered, nontax-supported
schools and presents evidence of this filing to the jurisdiction from which it
is requesting the establishment of a school zone;
            3.   Any special elementary school that in writing requests the
County Engineer to create a school zone at the location of the school. Upon
receipt of the written request, the County Engineer shall create a school zone
at that location by erecting appropriate signs;
            4.   Any preschool education program operated by an educational
service center that is located on a street or highway with a speed limit of 45
miles per hour or more, when the educational service center in writing requests
that the County Engineer create a school zone at the location of that program.
Upon receipt of such a written request, the County Engineer shall create a
school zone at that location by erecting the appropriate signs.
         C.   As used in this section, “school zone” means that portion of a
street or highway passing a school fronting upon the street or highway that is
encompassed by projecting the school property lines to the fronting street or
highway, and also includes that portion of a state highway. Upon request from
local authorities for streets and highways under their jurisdiction and that
portion of a state highway under the jurisdiction of the Director of
Transportation or a request from a County Engineer in the case of a school zone
for a special elementary school, the Director may extend the traditional school
zone boundaries. The distances in divisions (b)(1)C.1. through (b)(1)C.3. below
shall not exceed 300 feet per approach per direction, and are bounded by
whichever of the following distances or combination thereof the Director
approves as most appropriate:
            1.   The distance encompassed by projecting the school building
lines normal to the fronting highway and extending a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction;
            2.   The distance encompassed by projecting the school property
lines intersecting the fronting highway and extending a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction;
            3.   The distance encompassed by the special marking of the
pavement for a principal school pupil crosswalk plus a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction of the highway.
         D.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to invalidate the
Director’s initial action on August 9, 1976, establishing all school zones at
the traditional school zone boundaries defined by projecting school property
lines, except when those boundaries are extended as provided in divisions (b)
(1)A. and (b)(1)C. of this section.
         E.   As used in this division, “crosswalk” has the meaning given that
term in R.C. § 4511.01(LL)(2).
         F.   The Director may, upon request by resolution of the legislative
authority and upon submission by the municipality of such engineering, traffic
and other information as the Director considers necessary, designate a school
zone on any portion of a state route lying within the municipality that
includes a crosswalk customarily used by children going to or leaving a school
during recess and opening and closing hours, whenever the distance, as measured
in a straight line, from the school property line nearest the crosswalk to the
nearest point of a crosswalk is no more than 1,320 feet. Such a school zone
shall include the distance encompassed by the crosswalk and extending 300 feet
in each appropriate direction of the state route.
         G.   As used in this section, “special elementary school” means a
school that meets all of the following:
            1.   It is not chartered and does not receive tax revenue from any
source.
            2.   It does not educate children beyond the eighth grade.
            3.   It is located outside the limits of a municipal corporation.
            4.   A majority of the total number of students enrolled at the
school are not related by blood.
            5.   The principal or other person in charge of the special
elementary school annually sends a report to the superintendent of the school
district in which the special elementary school is located indicating the total
number of students enrolled at the school, but otherwise the principal or other
person in charge does not report any other information or data to the
superintendent.
      (2)   Twenty-five miles per hour in all other portions of the
municipality, except on state routes outside business districts, through
highways outside business districts and alleys;
      (3)   Thirty-five miles per hour on all state routes or through highways
within the municipality outside business districts, except as provided in
divisions (b)(4) and (b)(6) of this section;
      (4)   Fifty miles per hour on controlled-access highways and expressways
within the municipality, except as provided in divisions (b)(12), (b)(13), (b)
(14), (b)(15), and (b)(16) of this section;
      (5)   Fifty-five miles per hour on highways outside the municipality,
other than highways within island jurisdictions as provided in division (b)(8)
of this section, highways as provided in divisions (b)(9) and (b)(10) of this
section, and highways, expressways and freeways as provided in divisions (b)
(12), (b)(13), (b)(14), and (b)(16) of this section;
      (6)   Fifty miles per hour on state routes within the municipality
outside urban districts unless a lower prima facie speed is established as
further provided in this section;
      (7)   Fifteen miles per hour on all alleys within the municipality;
      (8)   Thirty-five miles per hour on highways outside the municipality
that are within an island jurisdiction;
      (9)   Thirty-five miles per hour on through highways, except state
routes, that are outside municipal corporations and that are within a national
park with boundaries extending through two or more counties;
      (10)   Sixty miles per hour on two-lane state routes outside municipal
corporations as established by the Director under R.C. § 4511.21(H)(2);
      (11)   Fifty-five miles per hour on freeways with paved shoulders inside
the municipality, other than freeways as provided in divisions (b)(14) and (b)
(16) of this section;
      (12)   Sixty miles per hour on rural expressways with traffic control
signals and on all portions of rural divided highways, except as provided in
divisions (b)(13) and (b)(14) of this section;
      (13)   Sixty-five miles per hour on all rural expressways without traffic
control signals;
      (14)   Seventy miles per hour on all rural freeways;
      (15)   Fifty-five miles per hour on all portions of freeways or
expressways in congested areas as determined by the Director and that are
located within a municipal corporation or within an interstate freeway
outerbelt, except as provided in division (b)(16) of this section;
      (16)   Sixty-five miles per hour on all portions of freeways or
expressways without traffic control signals in urbanized areas.
   (c)   It is prima facie unlawful for any person to exceed any of the speed
limitations in divisions (b)(1)A., (b)(2), (b)(3), (b)(4), (b)(6), (b)(7), (b)
(8) and (b)(9) of this section or any declared or established pursuant to this
section by the Director or local authorities and it is unlawful for any person
to exceed any of the speed limitations in division (d) of this section. No
person shall be convicted of more than one violation of this section for the
same conduct, although violations of more than one provision of this section
may be charged in the alternative in a single affidavit.
   (d)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon a street or highway as
follows:
      (1)   At a speed exceeding 55 miles per hour, except upon a two-lane
state route as provided in division (b)(10) of this section and upon a highway,
expressway or freeway as provided in divisions (b)(12), (b)(13), (b)(14), and
(b)(16) of this section;
      (2)   At a speed exceeding 60 miles per hour upon a two-lane state route
as provided in division (b)(10) of this section and upon a highway as provided
in division (b)(12) of this section;
      (3)   At a speed exceeding 65 miles per hour upon an expressway as
provided in division (b)(13) of this section or upon a freeway as provided in
division (b)(16) of this section, except upon a freeway as provided in division
(b)(14) of this section;
      (4)   At a speed exceeding 70 miles per hour upon a freeway as provided
in division (b)(14) of this section;
      (5)   At a speed exceeding the posted speed limit upon a highway,
expressway or freeway for which the Director has determined and declared a
speed limit pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(I)(2) or (L)(2).
   (e)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(E), in every charge of violating this
section, the affidavit and warrant shall specify the time, place and speed at
which the defendant is alleged to have driven, and in charges made in reliance
upon division (c) of this section also the speed which division (b)(1)A., (b)
(2), (b)(3), (b)(4), (b)(6), (b)(7), (b)(8) or (b)(9) of, or a limit declared
or established pursuant to, this section or R.C. § 4511.21 declares is prima
facie lawful at the time and place of the alleged violation, except that in
affidavits where a person is alleged to have driven at a greater speed than
will permit the person to bring the vehicle to stop within the assured clear
distance ahead, the affidavit and warrant need not specify the speed at which
the defendant is alleged to have driven.
   (f)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(F), when a speed in excess of both a prima
facie limitation and a limitation in division (d) of this section is alleged,
the defendant shall be charged in a single affidavit, alleging a single act,
with a violation indicated of both division (b)(1)A., (b)(2), (b)(3), (b)(4),
(b)(6), (b)(7), (b)(8) or (b)(9) of this section, or of a limit declared or
established pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.21 by the Director or local
authorities, and of the limitation in division (d) of this section. If the
court finds a violation of division (b)(1)A., (b)(2), (b)(3), (b)(4), (b)(6),
(b)(7), (b)(8) or (b)(9) of, or a limit declared or established pursuant to,
this section or R.C. § 4511.21 has occurred, it shall enter a judgment of
conviction under that division and dismiss the charge under division (d) of
this section. If it finds no violation of division (b)(1)A., (b)(2), (b)(3),
(b)(4), (b)(6), (b)(7), (b)(8) or (b)(9) of, or a limit declared or established
pursuant to, this section or R.C. § 4511.21, it shall then consider whether the
evidence supports a conviction under division (d) of this section.
   (g)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(G), points shall be assessed for a
violation of a limitation under division (d) of this section in accordance with
R.C. § 4510.036.
(R.C. § 4511.21(A) - (G))
   (h)   Whenever, in accordance with R.C. § 4511.21(H) through (N), the
maximum prima facie speed limitations as established herein have been altered,
either higher or lower, and the appropriate signs giving notice have been
erected as required, operators of motor vehicles shall be governed by the speed
limitations set forth on those signs. It is prima facie unlawful for any person
to exceed the speed limits posted upon the signs.
   (i)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Commercial bus.” A motor vehicle designed for carrying more than
nine passengers and used for the transportation of persons for compensation.
      (2)   “Divided.” Means a roadway having two or more travel lanes for
vehicles moving in opposite directions and that is separated by a median of
more than four feet, excluding turn lanes.
      (3)   “Interstate system.” Has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. 101.
      (4)   “Noncommercial bus.” Includes but is not limited to a school bus,
or a motor vehicle operated solely for the transportation of persons associated
with a charitable or nonprofit organization.
      (5)   “Outerbelt.” A portion of a freeway that is part of the interstate
system and is located in the outer vicinity of a major municipal corporation or
group of municipal corporations, as designated by the Director.
      (6)   “Rural.” Means an area outside urbanized areas and outside of a
business or urban district, and areas that extend within urbanized areas where
the roadway characteristics remain mostly unchanged from those outside the
urbanized areas.
      (7)   “Urbanized area.” Has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. § 101.
(R.C. § 4511.21(O))
   (j)   Penalty.
      (1)   A violation of any provision of this section is one of the
following:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (j)(1)B., (j)(1)C., and
(j)(2) and (j)(3) of this section, a minor misdemeanor;
         B.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of any provision of this
section, R.C. § 4511.21, or any provision of any other municipal ordinance that
is substantially equivalent to any provision of that section, a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree;
         C.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of any
provision of this section, R.C. § 4511.21, or any provision of any other
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any provision of that
section, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   If the offender has not previously been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of any provision of this section, R.C. § 4511.21, or any
other municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any provision of
that section, and operated a motor vehicle faster than 35 miles per hour in a
business district of the municipality, faster than 50 miles per hour in other
portions of the municipality, or faster than 35 miles per hour in a school zone
during recess or while children are going to or leaving school during the
school’s opening or closing hours, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (3)   Notwithstanding division (j)(1) of this section, if the offender
operated a motor vehicle in a construction zone where a sign was then posted in
accordance with R.C. § 4511.98, the court, in addition to all other penalties
provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a fine of two times the usual
amount imposed for the violation. No court shall impose a fine of two times the
usual amount imposed for the violation upon an offender if the offender
alleges, in an affidavit filed with the court prior to the offender’s
sentencing, that the offender is indigent and is unable to pay the fine imposed
pursuant to this division and if the court determines that the offender is an
indigent person and unable to pay the fine.
      (4)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.21(P))
§ 434.04 SPEED LIMITS ON PRIVATE ROADS AND DRIVEWAYS.
   (a)   The owner of a private road or driveway located in a private
residential area containing 20 or more dwelling units may establish a speed
limit on the road or driveway by complying with all of the following
requirements:
      (1)   The speed limit is not less than 25 miles per hour and is indicated
by a sign that is in a proper position, is sufficiently legible to be seen by
an ordinarily observant person, and meets the specifications for the basic
speed limit sign included in the Manual adopted by the Department of
Transportation pursuant to R.C. § 4511.09;
      (2)   The owner has posted a sign at the entrance of the private road or
driveway that is in plain view and clearly informs persons entering the road or
driveway that they are entering private property, a speed limit has been
established for the road or driveway, and the speed limit is enforceable by law
enforcement officers under state law.
   (b)   No person shall operate a vehicle upon a private road or driveway as
provided in division (a) of this section at a speed exceeding any speed limit
established and posted pursuant to division (a).
   (c)   When a speed limit is established and posted in accordance with
division (a) of this section, a law enforcement officer may apprehend a person
violating the speed limit of the residential area by utilizing any of the means
described in R.C. § 4511.091 or by any other accepted method of determining the
speed of a motor vehicle and may stop and charge the person with exceeding the
speed limit.
   (d)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.211(D), points shall be assessed for violation
of a speed limit established and posted in accordance with division (a) of this
section in accordance with R.C. § 4510.036.
   (e)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Owner.” Includes but is not limited to a person who holds title to
the real property in fee simple, a condominium owners’ association, a property
owners’ association, a board of directors or trustees of a private community,
and a nonprofit corporation governing a private community.
      (2)   “Private residential area containing 20 or more dwelling units.”
Does not include a Chautauqua assembly as defined in R.C. § 4511.90.
   (f)   Penalty.
      (1)   A violation of division (b) of this section is one of the
following:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (f)(1)B. and (f)(1)C.
of this section, a minor misdemeanor;
         B.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of this section, R.C. §
4511.211(B), or any other municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent
to that division, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
         C.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of this
section, R.C. § 4511.211(B), or any other municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to that division, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.211)
§ 434.05 SLOW SPEED; POSTED MINIMUM SPEEDS.
   (a)   No person shall stop or operate a vehicle at such an unreasonably slow
speed as to impede or block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic,
except when stopping or reduced speed is necessary for safe operation or to
comply with law.
   (b)   Whenever the Director of Transportation or local authorities determine
on the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation that slow speeds on
any part of a controlled-access highway, expressway or freeway consistently
impede the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, the Director or local
authority may declare a minimum speed limit below which no person shall operate
a motor vehicle, except when necessary for safe operation or in compliance with
the law. No minimum speed limit established hereunder shall be less than 30
miles per hour, greater than 50 miles per hour, nor effective until the
provisions of R.C. § 4511.21 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
relating to appropriate signs, have been fulfilled and local authorities have
obtained the approval of the Director.
   (c)   In a case involving a violation of this section, the trier of fact, in
determining whether the vehicle was being operated at an unreasonably slow
speed, shall consider the capabilities of the vehicle and its operator.
   (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (e)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.22)
§ 434.06 SPEED LIMITATIONS OVER BRIDGES.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle over any bridge or other
elevated structure constituting a part of a highway at a speed which is greater
than the maximum speed that can be maintained with safety to the bridge or
structure, when the structure is posted with signs as provided in this section.
      (2)   The Department of Transportation upon request from any local
authority shall, or upon its own initiative may, conduct an investigation of
any bridge or other elevated structure constituting a part of a highway, and if
it finds that the structure cannot with safety withstand traffic traveling at
the speed otherwise permissible under this traffic code, the Department shall
determine and declare the maximum speed of traffic which the structure can
withstand, and shall cause or permit suitable signs stating the maximum speed
to be erected and maintained at a distance of a least 100 feet before each end
of the structure.
      (3)   Upon the trial of any person charged with a violation of this
section, proof of such determination of the maximum speed by the Department and
the existence of the signs shall constitute prima facie evidence of the maximum
speed which can be maintained with safety to the bridge or structure.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.23)
§ 434.07 SPEED EXCEPTIONS FOR EMERGENCY OR SAFETY VEHICLES.
   The prima facie speed limitations set forth in R.C. § 4511.21 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance do not apply to emergency vehicles
or public safety vehicles when they are responding to emergency calls and are
equipped with and displaying at least one flashing, rotating or oscillating
light visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet
to the front of the vehicle, and when the drivers thereof sound audible signals
by bell, siren or exhaust whistle. This section does not relieve the driver of
an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons using the street or highway.
(R.C. § 4511.24)
§ 434.08 REASONABLE CONTROL.
   (a)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, agricultural tractor or
agricultural tractor that is towing, pulling or otherwise drawing a unit of
farm machinery on any street, highway or property open to the public for
vehicular traffic without being in reasonable control of the vehicle,
agricultural tractor or unit of farm machinery.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operating a motor vehicle
or agricultural tractor without being in control of it, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.202)
§ 434.09 STREET RACING PROHIBITED.
   (a)   As used in this section, “street racing” means the operation of two or
more vehicles from a point side by side at accelerating speeds in a competitive
attempt to outdistance each other, or the operation of one or more vehicles
over a common selected course, from the same point to the same point, wherein
timing is made of the participating vehicles involving competitive
accelerations or speeds. Persons rendering assistance in any manner to such
competitive use of vehicles shall be equally charged as the participants. The
operation of two or more vehicles side by side either at speeds in excess of
prima facie lawful speeds established by R.C. § 4511.21(B)(1)(a) through (B)(9)
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or rapidly accelerating from
a common starting point to a speed in excess of the prima facie lawful speeds
shall be prima facie evidence of street racing.
   (b)   No person shall participate in street racing upon any public road,
street or highway in this municipality.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of street racing, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition to any other sanctions, the court
shall suspend the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident operating
privileges for not less than 30 days or more than three years. No judge shall
suspend the first 30 days of any suspension of an offender’s license, permit or
privilege imposed under this division.
(R.C. § 4511.251)
§ 434.10 VEHICULAR HOMICIDE; VEHICULAR MANSLAUGHTER.
   (a)   No person, while operating or participating in the operation of a
motor vehicle, motorcycle, snowmobile, locomotive, watercraft or aircraft,
shall cause the death of another or the unlawful termination of another’s
pregnancy in any of the following ways:
      (1)   A.   As the proximate result of committing a violation of R.C. §
4511.19(A) or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
         B.   As the proximate result of committing a violation of R.C. §
1547.11(A) or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
         C.   As the proximate result of committing a violation of R.C. §
4561.15(A)(3) or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   In one of the following ways:
         A.   Recklessly;
         B.   As the proximate result of committing, while operating or
participating in the operation of a motor vehicle or motorcycle in a
construction zone, a reckless operation offense, provided that this division
applies only if the person whose death is caused or whose pregnancy is
unlawfully terminated is in the construction zone at the time of the offender’s
commission of the reckless operation offense in the construction zone and does
not apply as described in division (d) of this section.
      (3)   In one of the following ways:
         A.   Negligently;
         B.   As the proximate result of committing, while operating or
participating in the operation of a motor vehicle or motorcycle in a
construction zone, a speeding offense, provided that this division applies only
if the person whose death is caused or whose pregnancy is unlawfully terminated
is in the construction zone at the time of the offender’s commission of the
speeding offense in the construction zone and does not apply as described in
division (d) of this section.
      (4)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of any provision
of any section contained in R.C. Title 45 that is a minor misdemeanor or of a
municipal ordinance that, regardless of the penalty set by ordinance for the
violation, is substantially equivalent to any provision of any section
contained in R.C. Title 45 that is a minor misdemeanor.
   (b)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section is
guilty of aggravated vehicular homicide, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   A.   Whoever violates division (a)(3) of this section is guilty of
vehicular homicide. Except as otherwise provided in this division, vehicular
homicide is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Vehicular homicide committed in
violation of division (a)(3) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if, at the time of the offense, the offender was driving
under a suspension or cancellation imposed under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other
provision of the Ohio Revised Code or was operating a motor vehicle or
motorcycle, did not have a valid driver's license, commercial driver's license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege, and was not eligible for renewal of the offender's driver's license
or commercial driver's license without examination under R.C. § 4507.10 or if
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation
of this section or any traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault
offense.
         B.   In addition to any other sanctions imposed pursuant to this
division, the court shall impose upon the offender a class four suspension of
the offender's driver's license, commercial driver's license, temporary
instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
      (3)   A.   Whoever violates division (a)(4) of this section is guilty of
vehicular manslaughter. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
vehicular manslaughter is a misdemeanor of the second degree. Vehicular
manslaughter is a misdemeanor of the first degree if, at the time of the
offense, the offender was driving under a suspension or cancellation imposed
under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other provision of the Revised Code or was
operating a motor vehicle or motorcycle, did not have a valid driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license
or nonresident operating privilege, and was not eligible for renewal of the
offender’s driver’s license or commercial driver’s license without examination
under R.C. § 4507.10 or if the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to a violation of this section or any traffic-related homicide,
manslaughter or assault offense.
         B.   In addition to any other sanctions imposed pursuant to this
division, the court shall impose upon the offender a class six suspension of
the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6); or, if the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this
section, any traffic-related homicide, manslaughter or assault offense, or a
traffic-related murder, felonious assault or attempted murder offense, a class
four suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
   (c)   The court shall impose a mandatory jail term of at least 15 days on an
offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor violation of
division (a)(3)B. of this section and may impose upon the offender a longer
jail term as authorized pursuant to R.C. § 2929.24.
   (d)   Divisions (a)(2)B. and (a)(3)B. of this section do not apply in a
particular construction zone unless signs of the type described in R.C. §
2903.081 are erected in that construction zone in accordance with the
guidelines and design specifications established by the Director of
Transportation under R.C. § 5501.27. The failure to erect signs of the type
described in R.C. § 2903.081 in a particular construction zone in accordance
with those guidelines and design specifications does not limit or affect the
application of division (a)(1), (a)(2)A., (a)(3)A. or (a)(4) of this section in
that construction zone or the prosecution of any person who violates any of
those divisions in that construction zone.
   (e)   (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         A.   “Construction zone.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5501.27.
         B.   “Mandatory prison term” and “mandatory jail term.” Have the same
meanings as in R.C. § 2929.01.
         C.   “Motor vehicle.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
         D.   “Reckless operation offense.” A violation of R.C. § 4511.20 or a
municipal ordinance substantially equivalent to R.C. § 4511.20.
         E.   “Speeding offense.” A violation of R.C. § 4511.21 or a municipal
ordinance pertaining to speed.
         F.   “Traffic-related homicide, manslaughter or assault offense.” A
violation of R.C. § 2903.04 in circumstances in which division (D) of that
section applies, a violation of R.C. § 2903.06 or 2903.08, or a violation of
R.C. § 2903.06 or 2903.08 as they existed prior to March 23, 2000.
         G.   “Traffic-related murder, felonious assault or attempted murder
offense.” A violation of R.C. § 2903.01 or 2903.02 in circumstances in which
the offender used a motor vehicle as the means to commit the violation, a
violation of R.C. § 2903.11(A)(2) in circumstances in which the deadly weapon
used in the commission of the violation is a motor vehicle, or an attempt to
commit aggravated murder or murder in violation of R.C. § 2923.02 in
circumstances in which the offender used a motor vehicle as the means to
attempt to commit the aggravated murder or murder.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, when a penalty or suspension is
enhanced because of a prior or current violation of a specified law or a prior
or current specified offense, the reference to the violation of the specified
law or the specified offense includes any violation of any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, former law of this state, or current or former
law of this or another state or the United States.
(R.C. § 2903.06)
   (f)   Vehicular assault.
      (1)   No person, while operating or participating in the operation of a
motor vehicle or motorcycle, shall cause serious physical harm to another
person or another’s unborn as the proximate result of committing, while
operating or participating in the operation of a motor vehicle or motorcycle in
a construction zone, a speeding offense, provided that this division applies
only if the person to whom the serious physical harm is caused or to whose
unborn the serious physical harm is caused is in the construction zone at the
time of the offender’s commission of the speeding offense in the construction
zone and does not apply as described in division (f)(4) of this section.
      (2)   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this division, vehicular
assault committed in violation of division (f)(1) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. Vehicular assault committed in violation of
division (f)(1) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law if, at the time of the offense, the offender was driving under a
suspension imposed under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other provision of the Ohio
Revised Code or if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (f)(1) of this section, R.C. § 2903.08, or
any traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense.
         B.   In addition to any other sanctions imposed, the court shall
impose upon the offender a class four suspension of the offender’s driver’s
license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit,
probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
      (3)   The court shall impose a mandatory jail term of at least seven days
on an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor violation
of division (f)(1) of this section and may impose upon the offender a longer
jail term as authorized pursuant to R.C. § 2929.24.
      (4)   Division (f)(1) of this section does not apply in a particular
construction zone unless signs of the type described in R.C. § 2903.081 are
erected in that construction zone in accordance with the guidelines and design
specifications established by the Director of Transportation under R.C. §
5501.27.
      (5)   As used in this division (f):
         A.   “Construction zone.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5501.27.
         B.   “Mandatory jail term.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
         C.   “Speeding offense.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.06.
         D.   “Traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense.” Has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.06.
      (6)   For the purposes of this division (f), when a penalty or suspension
is enhanced because of a prior or current violation of a specified law or a
prior or current specified offense, the reference to the violation of the
specified law or the specified offense includes any violation of any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, former law of this state, or
current or former law of another state or the United States.
(R.C. 2903.08(A)(3), (C)(3), (D)(3), (E) - (G))
Statutory reference:
   Vehicular assault and aggravated vehicular assault, felony offenses, see
R.C. § 2903.08
   Trial court to suspend driver’s license, see R.C. § 4510.05, 4510.10
§ 434.11 OPERATION RESTRICTED FOR MINI-TRUCKS AND LOW-SPEED, UNDER- SPEED, OR
UTILITY VEHICLES.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall operate a low-speed vehicle upon any street or
highway having an established speed limit greater than 35 miles per hour.
      (2)   No person shall operate an under-speed or utility vehicle or a
mini-truck upon any street or highway except as follows:
         A.   Upon a street or highway having an established speed limit not
greater than 35 miles per hour and only upon such streets or highways where the
municipality has granted permission for such operation in accordance with
division (e) of this section;
         B.   A state park or political subdivision employee or volunteer
operating a utility vehicle exclusively within the boundaries of state parks or
political subdivision parks for the operation or maintenance of state or
political subdivision park facilities.
      (3)   No person shall operate a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter upon
any street or highway having an established speed limit greater than 45 miles
per hour.
   (b)   This section does not prohibit either of the following:
      (1)   A person operating a low-speed, under-speed, or utility vehicle or
a mini-truck from proceeding across an intersection of a street or highway
having a speed limit greater than 35 miles per hour;
      (2)   A person operating a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter from
proceeding across an intersection of a street or highway having a speed limit
greater than 45 miles per hour.
   (c)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the municipality from adopting
more stringent local ordinances, resolutions, or regulations governing the
operation of a low-speed vehicle or a mini-truck, or a motor-driven cycle or
motor scooter.
   (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (a) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.214)
   (e)   By ordinance or resolution, the municipality may authorize the
operation of under-speed or utility vehicles or mini-trucks on a public street
or highway under its jurisdiction. The municipality shall do all of the
following:
      (1)   Limit the operation of those vehicles to streets and highways
having an established speed limit not greater than 35 miles per hour;
      (2)   Require the vehicle owner who wishes to operate an under-speed or
utility vehicle or a mini-truck on the public streets or highways to submit the
vehicle to an inspection conducted by a local law enforcement agency that
complies with inspection requirements established by the Department of Public
Safety under R.C. § 4513.02;
      (3)   Permit the operation on public streets or highways of only those
vehicles that successfully pass the required vehicle inspection, are registered
in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4503, and are titled in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 4505;
      (4)   Notify the Director of Public Safety, in a manner the Director
determines, of the authorization for the operation of under-speed or utility
vehicles or mini-trucks.
   (f)   The municipality may establish additional requirements for the
operation of under-speed or utility vehicles or mini-trucks on its streets and
highways.
(R.C. § 4511.215)
   (g)   Notwithstanding divisions (a) through (f) of this section, a person
may operate a utility vehicle on any public roads or right-of-way, other than a
freeway, when traveling from one farm field to another for agricultural
purposes if the vehicle is displaying a triangular slow-moving vehicle emblem
as described in R.C. § 4513.11.
(R.C. § 4511.216)
   (h)   (1)   Except as provided in this division (h) and divisions (e) and
(f) of this section, no person shall operate a mini-truck within this
municipality.
      (2)   A person may operate a mini-truck on a farm for agricultural
purposes only when the owner of the farm qualifies for the current agricultural
use valuation tax credit. A mini-truck may be operated by or on behalf of such
a farm owner on public roads and rights-of-way only when traveling from one
farm field to another.
      (3)   A person may operate a mini-truck on property owned or leased by a
dealer who sells mini-trucks at retail.
      (4)   Whoever violates this division (h) shall be penalized as provided
in division (d) of this section.
(R.C. § 4519.401)
§ 434.99 PENALTY.
Editor’s note:
   See §§
408.01 and
408.02 for general traffic code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
CHAPTER 436: LICENSING; ACCIDENTS
Section
436.01   Driver’s or commercial driver’s license required.
436.02   Possession of more than one license prohibited.
436.03   Driving with temporary instruction permit.
436.035   Driving with probationary license.
436.04   Certain acts prohibited.
436.05   Owner or operator allowing another to drive.
436.06   Display of license.
436.071   Driving under suspension or in violation of license restriction.
436.072   Operating motor vehicle or motorcycle without valid license.
436.073   Driving under O.V.I. suspension.
436.074   Driving under financial responsibility law suspension or
cancellation; driving under a nonpayment of judgment suspension.
436.075   Failure to reinstate license.
436.08   Operation or sale without certificate of title.
436.09   Display of license plates; registration; obstructions.
436.10   Use of illegal license plates.
436.11   Failure to stop after accident.
436.12   Stopping after accident on other than public roads or highways.
436.13   Vehicle accident resulting in damage to realty.
436.14   Removal of vehicles after accidents.
436.99   Penalty.
Cross-reference:
   Glass removal from street after accident, see §
412.01
   Licensing requirements of snowmobile, off-highway and all-purpose vehicle
operator,
    see §
446.05
   Snowmobile, off-highway and all-purpose vehicle accident reports, see §
446.06
   Suspension of driver’s license, see §§
408.03,
698.06
Statutory reference:
   Driver’s license law, see R.C. Ch. 4507
   Employment of a minor to operate a taxicab prohibited, see R.C. § 4507.321
   Motor vehicle licensing law, see R.C. Ch. 4503
   Power of trial court of record to suspend license for certain violations,
    see R.C. § 4510.05, 4510.15
   State accident reports, see R.C. § 4509.01, 4509.06, 4509.74, 5502.11
   State point system suspension, see R.C. § 4510.036
§ 436.01 DRIVER’S OR COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (a)   No person shall permit the operation of a motor vehicle upon any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking, knowing the operator does not have a valid driver's license issued
to the operator by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a deputy registrar under
R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid commercial driver's license issued under R.C.
Chapter 4506. Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this division is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an
unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced pursuant to §
698.02, §
698.03, R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
698.02(d) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
698.02(f)(1)B.1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
698.02(e)(1)C. and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
698.02(e)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case. If, within three years of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to
two or more violations of this section or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.02(A)(1))
   (b)   (1)   No person shall be required to obtain a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license for the purpose of temporarily driving, operating, drawing,
moving or propelling a road roller or road machinery upon a street or highway.
      (2)   No person shall be required to obtain a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license for the purpose of temporarily driving, operating, drawing,
moving or propelling any agricultural tractor or implement of husbandry upon a
street or highway at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less.
      (3)   No person shall drive, operate, draw, move or propel any
agricultural tractor or implement of husbandry upon a street or highway at a
speed greater than 25 miles per hour unless the person has a current, valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license.
      (4)   No person having a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license
shall be required to have a motorcycle operator’s endorsement to operate a
motorcycle having three wheels with a motor of not more than 50 cubic
centimeters piston displacement.
      (5)   No person having a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license
shall be required to have a motorcycle operator’s endorsement to operate an
autocycle or a cab-enclosed motorcycle.
      (6)   Every person on active duty in the military or naval forces of the
United States, when furnished with a driver’s permit and when operating an
official motor vehicle in connection with that duty, is exempt from the license
requirements of R.C. Chapters 4506 and 4507. Every person on active duty in the
military or naval forces of the United States or in service with the Peace
Corps, Volunteers in Service to America or the foreign service of the United
States is exempt from the license requirements of such sections for the period
of the person’s active duty or service and for six months thereafter, provided
the person was a licensee under such sections at the time the person commenced
the person’s active duty or service. This section does not prevent such a
person or the person’s spouse or dependent from making an application, as
provided in R.C. § 4507.10(C), for the renewal of a driver’s license or
motorcycle operator’s endorsement or as provided in R.C. § 4506.14 for the
renewal of a commercial driver’s license during the period of the person’s
active duty or service.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (b)(3) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.03)
   (c)   Nonresidents, permitted to drive upon the highways of their own state,
may operate any motor vehicle upon any highway in this state without
examination or license under R.C. § 4507.01 to 4507.38, inclusive, upon
condition that the nonresident may be required at any time or place to prove
lawful possession or their right to operate the motor vehicle, and to establish
proper identity.
(R.C. § 4507.04)
   (d)   Surrender of driver’s license from another state.
      (1)   Any person who becomes a resident of this state, within 30 days of
becoming a resident, shall surrender any driver's license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card issued by another state to the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a deputy registrar. If such a person intends to
operate a motor vehicle upon the public roads or highways, the person shall
apply for a temporary instruction permit or driver's license in this state. If
the person fails to apply for a driver's license or temporary instruction
permit or within 30 days of becoming a resident, the person shall not operate
any motor vehicle in this state under a license or permit issued by another
state.
      (2)   A.   Whoever violates division (d)(1) of this section is guilty of
a minor misdemeanor.
         B.   The offense established under division (d)(2)A. of this section
is a strict liability offense and strict liability is a culpable mental state
for purposes of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of this offense as a strict
liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
      (3)   For purposes of division (d)(1) of this section, “resident” means
any person to whom any of the following applies:
         A.   The person maintains their principal residence in this state and
does not reside in this state as a result of the person’s active service in the
United States armed forces.
         B.   The person is determined by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles to be
a resident in accordance with standards adopted by the Registrar under R.C. §
4507.01.
(R.C. § 4507.213)
§ 436.02 POSSESSION OF MORE THAN ONE LICENSE PROHIBITED.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall receive a driver's license, or a motorcycle
operator's endorsement of a driver's or commercial driver's license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card unless and until the person
surrenders to the Registrar or a deputy registrar all valid licenses, temporary
instruction permits, and identification cards issued to the person by another
jurisdiction recognized by this state.
      (2)   The Registrar shall report the cancellation of a license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card to the issuing authority, together
with information that the license, temporary instruction permit, or
identification card is now issued in this state. The Registrar or a deputy
registrar shall destroy any such license, temporary instruction permit, or
identification card that is not returned to the issuing authority.
      (3)   No person shall possess more than one valid license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card at any time.
(R.C. § 4507.02(A)(2))
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4507.99)
§ 436.03 DRIVING WITH TEMPORARY INSTRUCTION PERMIT.
   (a)   No holder of a temporary instruction permit issued under R.C. §
4507.05(A) shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking
in violation of the conditions established under R.C. § 4507.05(A).
   (b)   Except as provided in division (c) of this section, no holder of a
temporary instruction permit that is issued under R.C. § 4507.05(A) and that is
issued on or after July 1, 1998, and who has not attained the age of 18 years,
shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or private property
used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking between the
hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m.
   (c)   The holder of a temporary instruction permit issued under R.C. §
4507.05(A) on or after July 1, 1998, who has not attained the age of 18 years,
may operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or private property
used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking between the
hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m. if, at the time of the operation, the holder is
accompanied by the holder’s parent, guardian or custodian, and the parent,
guardian or custodian holds a current valid driver’s or commercial driver’s
license issued by this state, is actually occupying a seat beside the permit
holder, and does not have a prohibited concentration of alcohol in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine as provided in R.C. § 4511.19
(A).
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4507.05(F), (I))
§ 436.035 DRIVING WITH PROBATIONARY LICENSE.
   (a)   (1)   A.   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held
the license for less than 12 months shall operate a motor vehicle upon a
highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m. unless
the holder is accompanied by the holder’s parent or guardian.
         B.   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held the
license for 12 months or longer shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. unless the
holder is accompanied by the holder’s parent or guardian.
      (2)   A.   Subject to division (c)(1) of this section, division (a)(1)A.
of this section does not apply to the holder of a probationary driver’s license
who is doing either of the following:
            1.   Traveling to or from work between the hours of midnight and 6:
00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession
written documentation from the holder’s employer.
            2.   Traveling to or from an official function sponsored by the
school the holder attends between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m., provided
that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession written documentation
from an appropriate official of the school;
            3.   Traveling to or from an official religious event between the
hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s
immediate possession written documentation from an appropriate official
affiliated with the event.
         B.   Division (a)(1)B. of this section does not apply to the holder of
a probationary driver’s license who is doing either of the following:
            1.   Traveling to or from work between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and
5:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession
written documentation from the holder’s employer.
            2.   Traveling to or from an official function sponsored by the
school the holder attends between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m.,
provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession written
documentation from an appropriate official of the school;
            3.   Traveling to or from an official religious event between the
hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s
immediate possession written documentation from an appropriate official
affiliated with the event.
      (3)   An employer, school official, or official affiliated with a
religious event is not liable in damages in a civil action for any injury,
death, or loss to person or property that allegedly arises from, or is related
to, the fact that the employer, school official, or official affiliated with a
religious event provided the holder of a probationary driver’s license with the
written documentation described in division (a)(2) of this section. The
Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall make available at no cost a form to serve as
the written documentation described in division (a)(2) of this section, and
employers, school officials, officials affiliated with religious events, and
holders of probationary driver’s licenses may utilize that form or may choose
to utilize any other written documentation to meet the requirements of that
division.
      (4)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held the
license for less than 12 months shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking with more than one person who is not a family member
occupying the vehicle unless the probationary license holder is accompanied by
the probationary license holder’s parent, guardian, or custodian.
   (b)   It is an affirmative defense to a violation of division (a)(1)A. or
(a)(1)B. of this section if, at the time of the violation, an emergency existed
that required the holder of the probationary driver’s license to operate a
motor vehicle in violation of division (a)(1)A. or (a)(1)B. of this section or
the holder was an emancipated minor.
   (c)   (1)   If a person is issued a probationary driver’s license prior to
attaining the age of 17 years and the person pleads guilty to, is convicted of,
or is adjudicated in juvenile court of having committed a moving violation
during the six-month period commencing on the date on which the person is
issued the probationary driver’s license, the court with jurisdiction over the
violation may order that the holder must be accompanied by the holder’s parent
or guardian whenever the holder is operating a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking for a period not to exceed six months or the date the holder
attains the age of 17 years, whichever occurs first.
      (2)   Any person who is subject to the operating restrictions established
under division (c)(1) of this section as a result of a first moving violation
may petition the court for driving privileges without being accompanied by the
holder’s parent or guardian during the period of time determined by the court
under that division. In granting the driving privileges, the court shall
specify the purposes of the privileges and shall issue the person appropriate
forms setting forth the privileges granted. If a person is convicted of, pleads
guilty to, or is adjudicated in juvenile court of having committed a second or
subsequent moving violation, the court with jurisdiction over the violation may
terminate any driving privileges previously granted under this division.
      (3)   No person shall violate any operating restriction imposed under
division (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section.
   (d)   No holder of a probationary license shall operate a motor vehicle upon
a highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking unless the total number of occupants of the vehicle
does not exceed the total number of occupant restraining devices originally
installed in the motor vehicle by its manufacturer, and each occupant of the
vehicle is wearing all of the available elements of a properly adjusted
occupant restraining device.
   (e)   A restricted license may be issued to a person who is 14 or 15 years
of age under proof of hardship satisfactory to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles.
   (f)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether each occupant of the motor vehicle is wearing all of the
available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device as
required by division (d) of this section, or for the sole purpose of issuing a
ticket, citation or summons if that requirement has been or is being violated,
or for causing the arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for a
violation of that requirement.
   (g)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (a)(1)A. or (a)(1)B. of this
section has been or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a
ticket, citation or summons for such a violation or for causing the arrest or
commencing a prosecution of a person for such a violation.
   (h)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Family member” of a probationary license holder. Includes any of
the following:
         A.   A spouse;
         B.   A child or stepchild;
         C.   A parent, stepparent, grandparent or parent-in-law;
         D.   An aunt or uncle;
         E.   A sibling, whether of the whole or half blood or by adoption, a
brother-in- law or a sister-in-law;
         F.   A son or daughter of the probationary license holder’s stepparent
if the stepparent has not adopted the probationary license holder;
         G.   An eligible adult, as defined in R.C. § 4507.05.
      (2)   “Moving violation.” Any violation of any statute or ordinance that
regulates the operation of vehicles on the highways or streets. “Moving
violation” does not include a violation of R.C. § 4513.263 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, or a violation of any statute or ordinance
regulating pedestrians or the parking of vehicles, vehicle size or load
limitations, vehicle fitness requirements or vehicle registration.
      (3)   “Occupant restraining device.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
4513.263.
   (i)   Whoever violates divisions (a)(1), (a)(4), (c)(3), or (d) of this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4507.071(B) - (J))
§ 436.04 CERTAIN ACTS PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Display or cause or permit to be displayed, or possess any
identification card, driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit
knowing the same to be fictitious, or to have been canceled, suspended or
altered;
      (2)   Lend to a person not entitled thereto, or knowingly permit a person
not entitled thereto to use any identification card, driver’s or commercial
driver’s license, temporary instruction permit or commercial driver’s license
temporary instruction permit issued to the person so lending or permitting the
use thereof;
      (3)   Display, or represent as one’s own, any identification card,
driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit or
commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit not issued to the
person so displaying the same;
      (4)   Fail to surrender to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, upon the
Registrar’s demand, any identification card, driver’s or commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit that has been suspended or canceled;
      (5)   In any application for an identification card, driver's or
commercial driver's license, temporary instruction permit or commercial
driver's license temporary instruction permit or any renewal, reprint, or
duplicate thereof, knowingly conceal a material fact or present any physician's
statement required under R.C. §§ 4507.08 or 4507.081 when knowing the same to
be false or fictitious.
   (b)   Whoever violates any division of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.30)
§ 436.05 OWNER OR OPERATOR ALLOWING ANOTHER TO DRIVE.
   (a)   No person shall permit a motor vehicle owned by the person or under
the person’s control to be driven by another if any of the following apply:
      (1)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person does not have a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit or valid nonresident driving privileges.
      (2)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privileges have been suspended or canceled under R.C. Chapter 4510 or
any other provision of the Revised Code.
      (3)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s act of driving the motor vehicle would violate any prohibition
contained in R.C. Chapter 4509.
      (4)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s act of driving would violate R.C. § 4511.19 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (5)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
vehicle is the subject of an immobilization waiver order issued under R.C. §
4503.235 and the other person is prohibited from operating the vehicle under
that order.
   (b)   Without limiting or precluding the consideration of any other evidence
in determining whether a violation of division (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4)
or (a)(5) of this section has occurred, it shall be prima facie evidence that
the offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the operator of the
motor vehicle owned by the offender or under the offender’s control is in a
category described in division (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4) or (a)(5) of this
section if any of the following applies:
      (1)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (a)(1), (a)(3) or (a)(5) of this section, the offender and the
operator of the motor vehicle reside in the same household and are related by
consanguinity or affinity.
      (2)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (a)(2) of this section, the offender and the operator of the motor
vehicle reside in the same household, and the offender knows or has reasonable
cause to believe that the operator has been charged with or convicted of any
violation of law or ordinance, or has committed any other act or omission, that
would or could result in the suspension or cancellation of the operator’s
license, permit, or privilege.
      (3)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (a)(4) of this section, the offender and the operator of the motor
vehicle occupied the motor vehicle together at the time of the offense.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of wrongful entrustment of a
motor vehicle, and shall be punished as provided in divisions (c) to (h) of
this section.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (c)(2) of this section, whoever
violates division (a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) of this section is guilty of an
unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the
offender shall be sentenced pursuant to §
698.02, §
698.03 or R.C. § 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
698.02(d) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
698.02(f)(1)B.1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
698.02(e)(1)C. and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
698.02(e)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   A.   If, within three years of a violation of division (a)(1), (a)
(2), or (a)(3) of this section, the offender previously has pleaded guilty to
or been convicted of two or more violations of division (a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)
(3) of this section, R.C. § 4511.203(A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)(3), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         B.   Whoever violates division (a)(4) or (a)(5) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   For any violation of this section, in addition to the penalties
imposed under this Code or R.C. Chapter 2929, the court may impose a class
seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7), and, if
the vehicle involved in the offense is registered in the name of the offender,
the court may order one of the following:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(3)B. or (c)(3)C. of
this section, the court may order, for 30 days, the immobilization of the
vehicle involved in the offense and the impoundment of that vehicle’s license
plates. If issued, the order shall be issued and enforced under R.C. §
4503.233.
         B.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one violation of this section, R.C. § 4511.203, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the court may order, for 60 days, the
immobilization of the vehicle involved in the offense and the impoundment of
that vehicle’s license plates. If issued, the order shall be issued and
enforced under R.C. § 4503.233.
         C.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section, R.C. § 4511.203, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court may order the criminal
forfeiture to the state of the vehicle involved in the offense. If issued, the
order shall be issued and enforced under R.C. § 4503.234.
      (4)   If title to a motor vehicle that is subject to an order for
criminal forfeiture under division (c)(3)C. of this section is assigned or
transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, in addition to or
independent of any other penalty established by law, the court may fine the
offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of the National
Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds from any fine imposed under this
division shall be distributed in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234(C)(2).
   (d)   If a court orders the criminal forfeiture of a vehicle under division
(c)(3)A. or (c)(3)B. of this section, the court shall not release the vehicle
from the immobilization before the termination of the period of immobilization
ordered unless the court is presented with current proof of financial
responsibility with respect to that vehicle.
   (e)   If a court orders the criminal forfeiture of a vehicle under division
(c)(3)C. of this section, upon receipt of the order from the court, neither the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles nor any deputy registrar shall accept any
application for the registration or transfer of registration of any motor
vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the order. The period of denial
shall be five years after the date the order is issued, unless, during that
five-year period, the court with jurisdiction of the offense that resulted in
the order terminates the forfeiture and notifies the Registrar of the
termination. If the court terminates the forfeiture and notifies the Registrar,
the Registrar shall take all necessary measures to permit the person to
register a vehicle owned or leased by the person or to transfer the
registration of the vehicle.
   (f)   This section does not apply to motor vehicle rental dealers or motor
vehicle leasing dealers, as defined in R.C. § 4549.65.
   (g)   Evidence of a conviction of, plea of guilty to, or adjudication as a
delinquent child for a violation of this section shall not be admissible as
evidence in any civil action that involves the offender or delinquent child who
is the subject of the conviction, plea or adjudication and that arises from the
wrongful entrustment of a motor vehicle.
   (h)   For purposes of this section, a vehicle is owned by a person if, at
the time of a violation of this section, the vehicle is registered in the
person’s name.
(R.C. § 4511.203)
§ 436.06 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   (a)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall display the operator’s driver’s
license, or furnish satisfactory proof that the operator has a driver’s
license, upon demand of any peace officer or of any person damaged or injured
in any collision in which the licensee may be involved. When a demand is
properly made, and the operator has the operator’s driver’s license on or about
the operator’s person, the operator shall not refuse to display the license. A
person’s failure to furnish satisfactory evidence that the person is licensed
under R.C. Chapter 4507 when the person does not have the person’s license on
or about the person’s person shall be prima facie evidence of the person’s not
having obtained a driver’s license.
   (b)   (1)   Except as provided in division (b)(2) of this section, whoever
violates this section is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
698.02, §
698.03 or R.C. § 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
698.02(d) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
698.02(f)(1)B.1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and notwithstanding §
698.02(e)(1)C. and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
698.02(e)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section,
R.C. § 4507.35, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense
is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.35)
§ 436.071 DRIVING UNDER SUSPENSION OR IN VIOLATION OF LICENSE RESTRICTION.
   (a)   Driving Under Suspension or in Violation of License Restriction.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (a)(2) of this section, division (b)
of this section, §
436.074 and in R.C. § 4510.111 and 4510.16, no person whose driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege has
been suspended under any provision of the Revised Code, other than R.C. Chapter
4509, or under any applicable law in any other jurisdiction in which the
person’s license or permit was issued shall operate any motor vehicle upon the
public roads and highways or upon any public or private property used by the
public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking within this municipality
during the period of suspension unless the person is granted limited driving
privileges and is operating the vehicle in accordance with the terms of the
limited driving privileges.
      (2)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking in this municipality in violation of any restriction of the person’s
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit imposed under R.C. § 4506.10
(D) or 4507.14.
      (3)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a
noncertified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a
noncertified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section may be admitted into
evidence as prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under
suspension at the time of the alleged violation of division (a)(1) of this
section or the person operated a motor vehicle in violation of a restriction at
the time of the alleged violation of division (a)(2) of this section. The
person charged with a violation of division (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section
may offer evidence to rebut this prima facie evidence.
      (4)   A.   Whoever violates division (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. The court may impose upon the
offender a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary
license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. §
4510.02(A)(7).
         B.   1.   Except as provided in division (a)(4)B.2. or (a)(4)B.3. of
this section, the court, in addition to any other penalty that it imposes on
the offender and if the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to one violation of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111
or 4510.16, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court, in
addition to or independent of any other sentence that it imposes upon the
offender, may order the immobilization of the vehicle involved in the offense
for 30 days and the impoundment of that vehicle’s license plates for 30 days in
accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
            2.   If the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to two violations of this section, or any combination of
two violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or 4510.16, or of a
substantially similar municipal ordinance, the court, in addition to any other
sentence that it imposes on the offender, may order the immobilization of the
vehicle involved in the offense for 60 days and the impoundment of that
vehicle’s license plates for 60 days in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
            3.   If the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of this section, or any
combination of three or more violations of this section or R.C. § 4510.11,
4510.111 or 4510.16, or of a substantially similar municipal ordinance, the
court, in addition to any other sentence that it imposes on the offender, may
order the criminal forfeiture of the vehicle involved in the offense to the
state.
      (5)   Any order for immobilization and impoundment under this section
shall be issued and enforced under R.C. § 4503.233 and 4507.02, as applicable.
The court shall not release a vehicle from immobilization ordered under this
section unless the court is presented with current proof of financial
responsibility with respect to that vehicle.
      (6)   Any order of criminal forfeiture under this section shall be issued
and enforced under R.C. § 4503.234. Upon receipt of the copy of the order from
the court, neither the Registrar of Motor Vehicles nor a deputy registrar shall
accept any application for the registration or transfer of registration of any
motor vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the declaration of
forfeiture. The period of registration denial shall be five years after the
date of the order, unless, during that period, the court having jurisdiction of
the offense that led to the order terminates the forfeiture and notifies the
registrar of the termination. The registrar then shall take necessary measures
to permit the person to register a vehicle owned or leased by the person or to
transfer registration of the vehicle.
      (7)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
698.02(f) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense for which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(R.C. § 4510.11)
   (b)   Driving Under Suspension in Violation of Other Provisions.
      (1)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking in this municipality whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license
has been suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2151.354, 2151.87, 2935.27, 3123.58,
4301.99, 4510.032, 4510.22, or 4510.33, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
      (2)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a
noncertified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a
noncertified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (b)(1) of this section may be admitted into evidence as
prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under suspension at the
time of the alleged violation of division (b)(1) of this section. The person
charged with a violation of division (b)(1) of this section may offer evidence
to rebut this prima facie evidence.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (b)(1) of this section is guilty of
driving under suspension and shall be punished as provided in division (b)(3)A.
or division (b)(3)B. of this section.
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (b)(3)B. of this
section, the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. The offender shall be
sentenced pursuant to §
698.02, §
698.03 or R.C. § 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
698.02(d) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
698.02(f)(1)B.1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
698.02(e)(1)C. and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
698.02(e)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
         B.   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously
was convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of division (b)(1)
of this section, or any combination of two or more violations of division (b)
(1) of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or 4510.16, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree, and the offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. § 2929.28 in
an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss arising from an accident
or collision that was the direct and proximate result of the offender’s
operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing the offense for
which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(R.C. § 4510.111)
   (c)   Repeat Traffic Offender; Point System Suspension. Any person whose
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating
privileges are suspended as a repeat traffic offender under R.C. § 4510.037 and
who, during the suspension, operates any motor vehicle upon any public roads
and highways is guilty of driving under a 12-point suspension, a misdemeanor of
the first degree. The court shall sentence the offender to a minimum term of
three days in jail. No court shall suspend the first three days of jail time
imposed pursuant to this division.
(R.C. § 4510.037(J))
   (d)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under division
(a) of this section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a
valid permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
§ 436.072 OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE OR MOTORCYCLE WITHOUT VALID LICENSE.
   (a)   (1)   No person, except those expressly exempted under R.C. § 4507.03,
4507.04 and 4507.05, shall operate any motor vehicle upon a public road or
highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking in this municipality unless the person has a valid
driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a commercial driver’s
license issued under R.C. Chapter 4506.
      (2)   No person, except a person expressly exempted under R.C. § 4507.03,
4507.04 and 4507.05, shall operate any motorcycle upon a public road or highway
or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking in this municipality unless the person has a valid license as
a motorcycle operator that was issued upon application by the Registrar of
Motor Vehicles under R.C. Chapter 4507. The license shall be in the form of an
endorsement, as determined by the Registrar, upon a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license, if the person has a valid license to operate a motor vehicle
or commercial motor vehicle, or in the form of a restricted license as provided
in R.C. § 4507.14, if the person does not have a valid license to operate a
motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle.
   (b)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a
noncertified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a
noncertified copy of a record of the registrar of motor vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section may be admitted into
evidence as prima facie evidence that the person did not have either a valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license at the time of the alleged violation of
division (a)(1) of this section or a valid license as a motorcycle operator
either in the form of an endorsement upon a driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or a restricted license at the time of the alleged violation of
division (a)(2) of this section. The person charged with a violation of
division (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section may offer evidence to rebut this
prima facie evidence.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operating a motor vehicle
or motorcycle without a valid license and shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   If the trier of fact finds that the offender never has held a valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license issued by this state or any other
jurisdiction, or, in a case involving the operation of a motorcycle by the
offender, if the offender has never held a valid license as a motorcycle
operator, either in the form of an endorsement upon a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or in the form of a restricted license, except as otherwise
provided in this division, the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
698.02, §
698.03 or R.C. § 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
698.02(d) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
698.02(f)(1)B.1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
698.02(e)(1)C. and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
698.02(e)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case. If the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation of this section or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
      (2)   If the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or, in a case involving the operation of a motorcycle by the offender, the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license bearing the motorcycle
endorsement or the offender’s restricted license was expired at the time of the
offense, except as otherwise provided in this division, the offense is a minor
misdemeanor. If within three years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
   (d)   The court shall not impose a license suspension for a first violation
of this section or if more than three years have passed since the offender’s
last violation of R.C. § 4510.12, this section, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (e)   If the offender is sentenced under division (c)(2) of this section, if
within three years of the offense the offender previously was convicted of or
pleaded guilty to one or more violations of R.C. § 4510.12, this section, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance within the past three years, and
if the offender’s license was expired for more than six months at the time of
the offense, the court may impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s
driver license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit,
probationary license or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
(R.C. § 4510.12)
§ 436.073 DRIVING UNDER O.V.I. SUSPENSION.
   (a)   No person whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege has been suspended under R.C. § 4511.19,
4511.191 or 4511.196 or under R.C. § 4510.07 for a conviction of a violation of
a municipal O.V.I. ordinance shall operate any motor vehicle upon the public
roads or highways within this municipality during the period of the suspension.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of driving under O.V.I.
suspension. The court shall sentence the offender under R.C. Chapter 2929,
subject to the differences authorized or required by this section.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (b)(2) or (b)(3) of this
section, driving under O.V.I. suspension is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         A.   A mandatory jail term of three consecutive days. The three-day
term shall be imposed, unless, subject to division (c) of this section, the
court instead imposes a sentence of not less than 30 consecutive days of house
arrest with electronic monitoring. A period of house arrest with electronic
monitoring imposed under this division shall not exceed six months. If the
court imposes a mandatory three-day jail term under this division, the court
may impose a jail term in addition to that term, provided that in no case shall
the cumulative jail term imposed for the offense exceed six months;
         B.   A fine of not less than $250 and not more than $1,000;
         C.   A license suspension under division (e) of this section;
         D.   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, immobilization for 30 days of the
offender’s vehicle and impoundment for 30 days of the identification license
plates of that vehicle. The order for immobilization and impoundment shall be
issued and enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
      (2)   If, within six years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of this section or one
equivalent offense, driving under O.V.I. suspension is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         A.   A mandatory jail term of ten consecutive days. Notwithstanding
the jail terms provided in R.C. § 2929.21 to 2929.28, the court may sentence
the offender to a longer jail term of not more than one year. The ten-day
mandatory jail term shall be imposed unless, subject to division (c) of this
section, the court instead imposes a sentence of not less than 90 consecutive
days of house arrest with electronic monitoring. The period of house arrest
with electronic monitoring shall not exceed one year;
         B.   Notwithstanding the fines provided for in R.C. Chapter 2929, a
fine of not less than $500 and not more than $2,500;
         C.   A license suspension under division (e) of this section;
         D.   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, immobilization of the offender’s
vehicle for 60 days and the impoundment for 60 days of the identification
license plates of that vehicle. The order for immobilization and impoundment
shall be issued and enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
      (3)   If, within six years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section
or two or more equivalent offenses, driving under O.V.I. suspension is a
misdemeanor. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         A.   A mandatory jail term of 30 consecutive days. Notwithstanding the
jail terms provided in R.C. § 2929.21 to 2929.28, the court may sentence the
offender to a longer jail term of not more than one year. The court shall not
sentence the offender to a term of house arrest with electronic monitoring in
lieu of the mandatory portion of the jail term;
         B.   Notwithstanding the fines set forth in R.C. Chapter 2929, a fine
of not less than $500 and not more than $2,500;
         C.   A license suspension under division (e) of this section;
         D.   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, criminal forfeiture to the state
of the offender’s vehicle. The order of criminal forfeiture shall be issued and
enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234. If title to a motor vehicle that
is subject to an order for criminal forfeiture under this division is assigned
or transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, the court may fine
the offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of the
National Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds from any fine so imposed
shall be distributed in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234(C)(2).
   (c)   (1)   No court shall impose an alternative sentence of house arrest
with electronic monitoring under division (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section
unless, within 60 days of the date of sentencing, the court issues a written
finding on the record that, due to the unavailability of space at the jail
where the offender is required to serve the jail term imposed, the offender
will not be able to begin serving that term within the 60-day period following
the date of sentencing.
      (2)   An offender sentenced under this section to a period of house
arrest with electronic monitoring shall be permitted work release during that
period.
   (d)   Fifty percent of any fine imposed by a court under division (b)(1),
(b)(2) or (b)(3) of this section shall be deposited into the Municipal Indigent
Drivers’ Alcohol Treatment Fund under the control of that court, as created by
the municipality pursuant to R.C. § 4511.191(H).
   (e)   In addition to or independent of all other penalties provided by law
or ordinance, the trial judge of any court of record or the Mayor of a Mayor’s
Court shall impose on an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
violation of this section a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
      (1)   When permitted as specified in R.C. § 4510.021, if the court grants
limited driving privileges during a suspension imposed under this section, the
privileges shall be granted on the additional condition that the offender must
display restricted license plates, issued under R.C. § 4503.231, on the vehicle
driven subject to the privileges, except as provided in R.C. § 4503.231(B).
      (2)   A suspension of a commercial driver’s license under this section
shall be concurrent with any period of suspension or disqualification under
R.C. § 3123.58 or 4506.16. No person who is disqualified for life from holding
a commercial driver’s license under R.C. § 4506.16 shall be issued a driver’s
license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period for which the commercial
driver’s license was suspended under this section, and no person whose
commercial driver’s license is suspended under this section shall be issued a
driver’s license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period of the suspension.
   (f)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
698.02(f) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense that is a misdemeanor of the first degree under this
section for which the offender is sentenced.
   (g)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Electronic monitoring.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      (2)   “Equivalent offense.” Any of the following:
         A.   A violation of a municipal ordinance, law of another state, or
law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to division (a) of
this section;
         B.   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to division (a) of this section.
      (3)   “Jail.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      (4)   “Mandatory jail term.” The mandatory term in jail of three, ten or
30 consecutive days that must be imposed under division (b)(1), (b)(2) or (b)
(3) of this section upon an offender convicted of a violation of division (a)
of this section and in relation to which all of the following apply:
         A.   Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term
must be served in a jail.
         B.   Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term
cannot be suspended, reduced, or otherwise modified pursuant to any provision
of the Ohio Revised Code.
(R.C. § 4510.14)
   (h)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
Statutory reference:
   Immobilization of vehicle; impoundment of license plates; criminal
forfeiture of vehicle, see R.C. § 4510.161
§ 436.074 DRIVING UNDER FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY LAW SUSPENSION OR
CANCELLATION; DRIVING UNDER A NONPAYMENT OF JUDGMENT SUSPENSION.
   (a)   No person, whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or temporary
instruction permit or nonresident’s operating privilege has been suspended or
canceled pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4509, shall operate any motor vehicle within
this municipality, or knowingly permit any motor vehicle owned by the person to
be operated by another person in the municipality, during the period of the
suspension or cancellation, except as specifically authorized by R.C. Chapter
4509. No person shall operate a motor vehicle within this municipality, or
knowingly permit any motor vehicle owned by the person to be operated by
another person in the municipality, during the period in which the person is
required by R.C. § 4509.45 to file and maintain proof of financial
responsibility for a violation of R.C. § 4509.101, unless proof of financial
responsibility is maintained with respect to that vehicle.
   (b)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any public
or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking in this municipality if the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or temporary instruction permit or nonresident operating privilege has
been suspended pursuant to R.C. § 4509.37 or 4509.40 for nonpayment of a
judgment.
   (c)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a
noncertified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a
noncertified copy of a record of the registrar of motor vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (a) or (b) of this section may be admitted into evidence
as prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under either a
financial responsibility law suspension at the time of the alleged violation of
division (a) of this section or a nonpayment of judgment suspension at the time
of the alleged violation of division (b) of this section. The person charged
with a violation of division (a) or (b) of this section may offer evidence to
rebut this prima facie evidence.
   (d)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of driving
under financial responsibility law suspension or cancellation and shall be
punished as provided in this division (d). Whoever violates division (b) of
this section is guilty of driving under a nonpayment of judgment suspension and
shall be punished as provided in this division (d).
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (d)(2) of this
section, the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an
unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced pursuant to §
698.02, §
698.03 or R.C. § 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
698.02(d) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
698.02(f)(1)B.1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
698.02(e)(1)C. and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
698.02(e)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously was
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section, or
any combination of two violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or
4510.16, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (3)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. § 2929.28 in
an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss arising from an accident
or collision that was the direct and proximate result of the offender’s
operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing the offense for
which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(R.C. § 4510.16)
   (e)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
Statutory reference:
   Immobilization of vehicle; impoundment of license plates; criminal
forfeiture of vehicle, see R.C. § 4510.161
§ 436.075 FAILURE TO REINSTATE LICENSE.
   (a)   No person whose driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit or nonresident’s operating privilege has been
suspended shall operate any motor vehicle upon a public road or highway or any
public or private property after the suspension has expired unless the person
has complied with all license reinstatement requirements imposed by the court,
the Bureau of Motor Vehicles or another provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
   (b)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a
noncertified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a
noncertified copy of a record of the registrar of motor vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (a) of this section may be admitted into evidence as
prima facie evidence that the
license of the person had not been reinstated by the person at the time of the
alleged violation of division (a) of this section. The person charged with a
violation of division (a) of this section may offer evidence to rebut this
prima facie evidence.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to reinstate a
license, and shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   Except as provided in division (c)(2) of this section, whoever
violates this section is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
698.02, §
698.03 or R.C. § 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
698.02(d) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
698.02(f)(1)B.1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
698.02(e)(1)C. and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
698.02(e)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of a violation of division (a) of this
section, the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted of two
or more violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.21 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (3)   In all cases, the court may impose upon the offender a class seven
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary driver’s license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
(R.C. § 4510.21)
   (d)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
§ 436.08 OPERATION OR SALE WITHOUT CERTIFICATE OF TITLE.
   (a)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate in this municipality a motor vehicle for which a
certificate of title is required without having that certificate in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 4505 or, if a physical certificate of title has not been
issued for a motor vehicle, operate the motor vehicle in this state knowing
that the ownership information relating to the vehicle has not been entered
into the automated title processing system by a Clerk of a Court of Common
Pleas;
      (2)   Display or display for sale or sell as a dealer or acting on behalf
of a dealer, a motor vehicle without having obtained a manufacturer’s or
importer’s certificate, a certificate of title or an assignment of a
certificate of title for it as provided in R.C. Chapter 4505;
      (3)   Fail to surrender any certificate of title or any certificate of
registration or license plates upon cancellation of the same by the Registrar
of Motor Vehicles and notice of the cancellation as prescribed in R.C. Chapter
4505;
      (4)   Fail to surrender the certificate of title to a Clerk of a Court of
Common Pleas as provided in R.C. Chapter 4505 in case of the destruction or
dismantling or change of a motor vehicle in such respect that it is not the
motor vehicle described in the certificate of title;
      (5)   Violate any rules adopted pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4505;
      (6)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapters 4505 and 4517, sell
at wholesale a motor vehicle ownership of which is not evidenced by an Ohio
certificate of title, or the current certificate of title issued for the motor
vehicle, or the manufacturer’s certificate of origin, and all title assignments
that evidence the seller’s ownership of the motor vehicle, and an odometer
disclosure statement that complies with R.C. § 4505.06 and subchapter IV of the
“Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act”, 86 Stat. 961 (1972), 15
U.S.C. 1981;
      (7)   Operate in this state a motor vehicle knowing that the certificate
of title to the vehicle or ownership of the vehicle as otherwise reflected in
the automated title processing system has been canceled.
   (b)   This section does not apply to persons engaged in the business of
warehousing or transporting motor vehicles for the purpose of salvage
disposition.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $200,
imprisoned not more than 90 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4505.18)
§ 436.09 DISPLAY OF LICENSE PLATES; REGISTRATION; OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (a)   (1)   No person who is the owner or operator of a motor vehicle shall
fail to display in plain view on the rear of the motor vehicle a license plate
that displays the distinctive number and registration mark assigned to the
motor vehicle by the Ohio Director of Public Safety, including any county
identification sticker and any validation sticker when required by and issued
under R.C. §§ 4503.19 and 4503.191. However, a commercial tractor shall display
the license plate on the front of the commercial tractor.
      (2)   The license plate shall be securely fastened so as not to swing,
and shall not be covered by any material that obstructs its visibility.
      (3)   No person to whom a temporary motor vehicle license registration
has been issued for the use of a motor vehicle under R.C. § 4503.182, and no
operator of that motor vehicle, shall fail to display the temporary motor
vehicle license registration in plain view from the rear of the vehicle either
in the rear window or on an external rear surface of the motor vehicle.
      (4)   No person shall cover a temporary motor vehicle license
registration by any material that obstructs its visibility.
(R.C. § 4503.21(A))
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided by R.C. §§ 4503.103, 4503.173, 4503.41,
4503.43 and 4503.46, no person who is the owner or chauffeur of a motor vehicle
operated or driven upon the public roads or highways shall fail to file
annually the application for registration or to pay the tax therefor.
(R.C. § 4503.11(A))
   (c)   (1)   Within 30 days of becoming a resident of this state, any person
who owns a motor vehicle operated or driven upon the public roads or highways
shall register the vehicle in this state. If such a person fails to register a
vehicle owned by the person, the person shall not operate any motor vehicle in
this state under a license issued by another state.
      (2)   For purposes of division (c)(1) of this section, “resident” means
any person to whom any of the following applies:
         A.   The person maintains their principal residence in this state and
does not reside in this state as a result of the person’s active service in the
United States armed forces.
         B.   The person is determined by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles to be
a resident in accordance with standards adopted by the Registrar under R.C. §
4507.01.
(R.C. § 4503.111(A), (C))
   (d)   Upon the transfer of ownership of a motor vehicle, the registration of
the motor vehicle expires, and the original owner immediately shall remove the
license plates from the motor vehicle, except as otherwise provided in R.C. §
4503.12.
(R.C. § 4503.12(A))
   (e)   No person shall operate or drive upon the highways of this
municipality a motor vehicle acquired from a former owner who has registered
the motor vehicle, while the motor vehicle displays the distinctive number or
identification mark assigned to it upon its original registration.
(R.C. § 4549.11(A))
   (f)   No person who is the owner of a motor vehicle and a resident of this
state shall operate or drive the motor vehicle upon the highways of this
municipality while it displays a distinctive number or identification mark
issued by or under the authority of another state, without complying with the
laws of this state relating to the registration and identification of motor
vehicles.
(R.C. § 4549.12(A))
   (g)   No person shall park or operate any vehicle upon any public street or
highway upon which are displayed any license plates for any period of time
which has expired, or any license plates issued in another state for which the
period of reciprocal agreement with the state of issue has expired.
   (h)   No person shall park or operate any vehicle upon any public street or
highway upon which are displayed any license plates not legally registered and
issued for the vehicle, or upon which are displayed any license plates that
were issued on an application for registration that contains any false
statement by the applicant.
   (i)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, upon which license plates are
required by law to be displayed, unless the license plates legally registered
and issued for the vehicle are fastened in such a manner, and not covered,
obscured or concealed by any part or accessory of the vehicle, to be readable
in their entirety from left to right.
   (j)   (1)   A.   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of
a minor misdemeanor.
         B.   The offenses established under division (a) of this section are
strict liability offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of
these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be construed to imply
that any other offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability,
is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. § 4503.21(B), (C))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4503.11(D))
      (3)   A.   Whoever violates division (c) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
         B.   The offense established under division (j)(3)A. of this section
is a strict liability offense and strict liability is a culpable mental state
for purposes of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of this offense as a strict
liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
(R.C. § 4503.111(B))
      (4)   Whoever violates division (d) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4503.12(D))
      (5)   Whoever violates division (e) of this section is guilty of
operation of a motor vehicle bearing license plates or an identification mark
issued to another, a minor misdemeanor on a first offense and a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.11(B))
      (6)   Whoever violates division (f) of this section is guilty of illegal
operation by a resident of this state of a motor vehicle bearing the
distinctive number or identification mark issued by a foreign jurisdiction, a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.12(B))
§ 436.10 USE OF ILLEGAL LICENSE PLATES.
   (a)   No person shall operate or drive a motor vehicle upon the public roads
and highways in this municipality if it displays a license plate or a
distinctive number or identification mark that meets any of the following
criteria:
      (1)   It is fictitious;
      (2)   It is a counterfeit or an unlawfully made copy of any distinctive
number or identification mark;
      (3)   It belongs to another motor vehicle, provided that this section
does not apply to a motor vehicle that is operated on the public roads and
highways in this municipality when the motor vehicle displays license plates
that originally were issued for a motor vehicle that previously was owned by
the same person who owns the motor vehicle that is operated on the public roads
and highways in this municipality during the 30-day period described in R.C. §
4503.12(A)(4).
   (b)   A person who fails to comply with the transfer of registration
provisions of R.C. § 4503.12 and is charged with a violation of that section
shall not be charged with a violation of this section.
   (c)   Whoever violates division (a)(1), (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this section is
guilty of operating a motor vehicle bearing an invalid license plate or
identification mark, this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the third degree on each
subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.08)
§ 436.11 FAILURE TO STOP AFTER ACCIDENT.
   (a)   (1)   In the case of a motor vehicle accident or collision with
persons or property on a public road or highway, the operator of the motor
vehicle, having knowledge of the accident or collision, immediately shall stop
the operator’s motor vehicle at the scene of the accident or collision. The
operator shall remain at the scene of the accident or collision until the
operator has given the operator’s name and address and, if the operator is not
the owner, the name and address of the owner of that motor vehicle, together
with the registered number of that motor vehicle, to all of the following:
         A.   Any person injured in the accident or collision;
         B.   The operator, occupant, owner, or attendant of any motor vehicle
damaged in the accident or collision;
         C.   The police officer at the scene of the accident or collision.
      (2)   In the event an injured person is unable to comprehend and record
the information required to be given under division (a)(1) of this section, the
other operator involved in the accident or collision shall notify the nearest
police authority concerning the location of the accident or collision, and the
operator’s name, address, and the registered number of the motor vehicle the
operator was operating. The operator shall remain at the scene of the accident
or collision until a police officer arrives, unless removed from the scene by
an emergency vehicle operated by a political subdivision or an ambulance.
      (3)   If the accident or collision is with an unoccupied or unattended
motor vehicle, the operator who collides with the motor vehicle shall securely
attach the information required to be given in this section, in writing, to a
conspicuous place in or on the unoccupied or unattended motor vehicle.
   (b)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after an accident. Except as otherwise provided in division (b)
(2) or (b)(3) of this section, failure to stop after an accident is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the accident or collision results in serious physical harm to a
person, failure to stop after an accident is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the accident or collision results in the death of a person,
failure to stop after an accident is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (4)   In all cases, the court, in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a class five suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(5). No judge shall suspend the first six months
of suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege required by this
division.
      (5)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition
to any other penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution
pursuant to R.C. § 2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any
economic loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and
proximate result of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before,
during, or after committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.02)
§ 436.12 STOPPING AFTER ACCIDENT ON OTHER THAN PUBLIC ROADS OR HIGHWAYS.
   (a)   (1)   In the case of a motor vehicle accident or collision resulting
in injury or damage to persons or property on any public or private property
other than a public road or highway, the operator of the motor vehicle, having
knowledge of the accident or collision, shall stop at the scene of the accident
or collision. Upon request of any person who is injured or damaged, or any
other person, the operator shall give that person the operator’s name and
address, and, if the operator is not the owner, the name and address of the
owner of that motor vehicle, together with the registered number of that motor
vehicle, and, if available, exhibit the operator’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license.
      (2)   If the operator of the motor vehicle involved in the accident or
collision does not provide the information specified in division (a)(1) of this
section, the operator shall give that information, within 24 hours after the
accident or collision, to the police department of the city or village in which
the accident or collision occurred, or if it occurred outside the corporate
limits of a city or village, to the sheriff of the county in which the accident
or collision occurred.
      (3)   If the accident or collision is with an unoccupied or unattended
motor vehicle, the operator who collides with the motor vehicle shall securely
attach the information required under division (a)(1) of this section, in
writing, to a conspicuous place in or on the unoccupied or unattended motor
vehicle.
   (b)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident. Except as otherwise provided
in division (b)(2) or (b)(3) of this section, failure to stop after a nonpublic
road accident is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the accident or collision results in serious physical harm to a
person, failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the accident or collision results in the death of a person,
failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (4)   In all cases, the court, in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a class five suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(5). No judge shall suspend the first six months
of suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege required by this
division.
      (5)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. §
2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.021)
§ 436.13 VEHICLE ACCIDENT RESULTING IN DAMAGE TO REALTY.
   (a)   (1)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in
damage to real property, or personal property attached to real property,
legally upon or adjacent to a public road or highway immediately shall stop and
take reasonable steps to locate and notify the owner or person in charge of the
property of that fact, of the driver’s name and address, and of the
registration number of vehicle the driver is driving and, upon request and if
available, shall exhibit the driver’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license.
      (2)   If the owner or person in charge of the property cannot be located
after reasonable search, the driver of the vehicle involved in the accident
resulting in damage to the property within 24 hours after the accident, shall
forward to the Police Department of the municipality the same information
required to be given to the owner or person in control of the property and give
the location of the accident and a description of the damage insofar as it is
known.
   (b)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after an accident involving the property of others, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
698.02(f) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during, or
after committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.03)
§ 436.14 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES AFTER ACCIDENTS.
   (a)   If a motor vehicle accident occurs on any highway, public street, or
other property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel and if any
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property that has been damaged or spilled as
a result of the motor vehicle accident is blocking the highway, street, or
other property or is otherwise endangering public safety, a public safety
official may do either of the following without the consent of the owner but
with the approval of the law enforcement agency conducting any investigation of
the accident:
      (1)   Remove, or order the removal of, the motor vehicle if the motor
vehicle is unoccupied, cargo, or personal property from the portion of the
highway, public street, or property ordinarily used for vehicular travel on the
highway, public street, or other property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel.
      (2)   If the motor vehicle is a commercial motor vehicle, allow the owner
or operator of the vehicle the opportunity to arrange for the removal of the
motor vehicle within a period of time specified by the public safety official.
If the public safety official determines that the motor vehicle cannot be
removed within the specified period of time, the public safety official shall
remove or order the removal of the motor vehicle.
   (b)   (1)   Except as provided in division (b)(2) of this section, the
Department of Transportation, any employee of the Department of Transportation,
or a public safety official who authorizes or participates in the removal of
any unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property as authorized by
division (a) of this section, regardless of whether the removal is executed by
a private towing service, is not liable for civil damages for any injury,
death, or loss to person or property that results from the removal of that
unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property. Further, except as
provided in division (b)(2) of this section, if a public safety official
authorizes, employs, or arranges to have a private towing service remove any
unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property as authorized by division
(a) of this section, that private towing service is not liable for civil
damages for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that results from
the removal of that unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property.
      (2)   Division (b)(1) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
         A.   Any person or entity involved in the removal of an unoccupied
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property pursuant to division (a) of this
section if that removal causes or contributes to the release of a hazardous
material or to structural damage to the roadway;
         B.   A private towing service that was not authorized, employed, or
arranged by a public safety official to remove an unoccupied motor vehicle,
cargo, or personal property under this section;
         C.   Except as provided in division (b)(2)D. of this section, a
private towing service that was authorized, employed, or arranged by a public
safety official to perform the removal of the unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo,
or personal property but the private towing service performed the removal in a
negligent manner;
         D.   A private towing service that was authorized, employed, or
arranged by a public safety official to perform the removal of the unoccupied
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property that was endangering public safety
but the private towing service performed the removal in a reckless manner.
   (c)   As used in divisions (a) and (b) of this section:
      (1)   “Hazardous material.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.232.
      (2)   “Public safety official.” Means any of the following:
         A.   The sheriff of the county, or the chief of police in the
municipal corporation, township, or township, port authority, or joint police
district, in which the accident occurred;
         B.   A state highway patrol trooper;
         C.   The chief of the fire department having jurisdiction where the
accident occurred;
         D.   A duly authorized subordinate acting on behalf of an official
specified in divisions A. to C. of this definition.
(R.C. § 4513.66)
   (d)   If a towing service is removing a motor vehicle, and the removal was
not authorized under R.C. § 4513.60, 4513.601, 4513.61, or 4513.66, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, prior to removing the motor
vehicle, the towing service shall provide a written estimate of the price for
the removal to the operator of the motor vehicle, if requested.
   (e)   The towing service shall ensure that any estimate provided under
division (d) of this section includes the fees, services to be rendered, and
destination of the vehicle.
   (f)   If a towing service fails to provide a written estimate as required by
this section, the towing service shall not charge fees for the towing and
storage of the motor vehicle that exceed 25% of any applicable fees established
by the public utilities commission in rules adopted under R.C. § 4921.25(B)(4)
or, if the vehicle was towed within a municipal corporation that has
established vehicle removal and storage fees, 25% of the fees established by
the municipal corporation.
   (g)   Any storage facility that accepts towed vehicles shall conspicuously
post a notice at the entrance to the storage facility that states the
limitation on fees established under division (f) of this section.
(R.C. § 4513.68)
§ 436.99 PENALTY.
Editor’s note:
   See §§
408.01 and
408.02 for general traffic code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
CHAPTER 438: SAFETY AND EQUIPMENT
Section
438.01   Driving unsafe vehicles; application.
438.02   Lighted lights; measurement of distances and heights.
438.03   Headlights on motor vehicles and motorcycles.
438.04   Tail light; illumination of rear license plate.
438.05   Rear red reflectors.
438.06   Safety lighting on commercial vehicles.
438.07   Obscured lights on vehicles in combination.
438.08   Red light or red flag on extended loads.
438.09   Lights on parked or stopped vehicles.
438.10   Lights on slow-moving vehicles; emblem required; lights and reflectors
on multi- wheel agricultural tractors or farm machinery.
438.11   Spotlight and auxiliary lights.
438.12   Cowl, fender and back-up lights.
438.13   Two lights displayed.
438.14   Use of headlight beams.
438.15   Lights of less intensity on slow-moving vehicles.
438.16   Number of lights permitted; red and flashing lights.
438.165   Lights and sound-producing devices on coroners’ vehicles.
438.17   Vehicles transporting preschool children.
438.18   Focus and aim of headlights.
438.19   Motor vehicle and motorcycle brakes.
438.22   Horn, siren and theft alarm signal.
438.21   Muffler; muffler cutout; excessive smoke, gas or noise.
438.22   Rear-view mirror; clear view to front, both sides and rear.
438.23   Windshield required; sign or poster upon windshield; windshield wiper.
438.24   Tinted glass; materials on glass.
438.25   Limited load extension on left side of passenger vehicle.
438.26   Motor vehicle stop lights.
438.27   Bumpers.
438.28   Air cleaner required.
438.29   Use of child restraints.
438.30   Use of occupant restraining devices.
438.31   Repealed.
438.32   Air bags.
438.99   Penalty.
Cross-references:
   Bicycle equipment, see §
444.05
   Improperly handling firearms in a motor vehicle, see §
678.05
   Occupying travel trailers while in motion, see §
440.08
   Snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle and all-purpose vehicle equipment, see §
446.02
   Towing requirements; exception to size and weight restrictions, see §
440.05
   Use of stop and turn signals, see §
432.13
   Vehicles transporting explosives, see §
440.04
   Wheel protectors for commercial vehicles, see §
440.03
Statutory references:
   Collector’s vehicles, see R.C. § 4513.38, 4513.41
   Warning devices for commercial vehicles disabled upon freeways, see R.C. §
4513.28
§ 438.01 DRIVING UNSAFE VEHICLES; APPLICATION.
   (a)   No person shall drive or move, or cause or knowingly permit to be
driven or moved, on any highway any vehicle or combination of vehicles which is
in such unsafe condition as to endanger any person.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.02(A), (H))
§ 438.02 LIGHTED LIGHTS; MEASUREMENT OF DISTANCES AND HEIGHTS.
   (a)   Every vehicle, other than a motorized bicycle, operated upon a street
or highway within this state shall display lighted lights and illuminating
devices as required by R.C. § 4513.04 through 4513.37 during all of the
following times:
      (1)   The time from sunset to sunrise;
      (2)   At any other time when, due to insufficient natural light or
unfavorable atmospheric conditions, persons, vehicles and substantial objects
on the highway are not discernible at a distance of 1,000 feet ahead;
      (3)   At any time when the windshield wipers of the vehicle are in use
because of precipitation on the windshield.
   (b)   Every motorized bicycle shall display at such times lighted lights
meeting the rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety under R.C. §
4511.521. No motor vehicle, during any time specified in this section, shall be
operated upon a street or highway within this state using only parking lights
as illumination.
   (c)   Whenever in such sections a requirement is declared as to the distance
from which certain lamps and devices shall render objects visible, or within
which such lamps or devices shall be visible, such distance shall be measured
upon a straight level unlighted highway under normal atmospheric conditions
unless a different condition is expressly stated.
   (d)   Whenever in such sections a requirement is declared as to the mounted
height of lights or devices, it shall mean from the center of such light or
device to the level ground upon which the vehicle stands.
   (e)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a vehicle being operated upon a
street or highway within this state to stop the vehicle solely because the
officer observes that a violation of division (a)(3) of this section has been
or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or
summons for a violation of that division, or causing the arrest of or
commencing a prosecution of a person for a violation of that division.
   (f)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.03)
§ 438.03 HEADLIGHTS ON MOTOR VEHICLES AND MOTORCYCLES.
   (a)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, shall be equipped
with at least two headlights with at least one near each side of the front of
the motor vehicle.
      (2)   Every motorcycle shall be equipped with at least one and not more
than two headlights.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.04)
§ 438.04 TAIL LIGHT; ILLUMINATION OF REAR LICENSE PLATE.
   (a)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, pole trailer or
vehicle which is being drawn at the end of a train of vehicles shall be
equipped with at least one tail light mounted on the rear which, when lighted,
shall emit a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear,
provided that in the case of a train of vehicles only the tail light on the
rearmost vehicle need be visible from the distance specified.
      (2)   Either a tail light or a separate light shall be so constructed and
placed as to illuminate with a white light the rear registration plate, when
the registration plate is required, and render it legible from a distance of 50
feet to the rear. Any tail light, together with any separate light for
illuminating the rear registration plate, shall be so wired as to be lighted
whenever the headlights or auxiliary driving lights are lighted, except where
separate lighting systems are provided for trailers for the purpose of
illuminating the registration plate.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.05)
§ 438.05 REAR RED REFLECTORS.
   (a)   (1)   Every new motor vehicle sold after September 6, 1941, and
operated on a highway, other than a commercial tractor to which a trailer or
semitrailer is attached, shall carry at the rear, either as a part of the tail
lamps or separately, two red reflectors meeting the requirements of this
section, except that vehicles of the type mentioned in R.C. § 4513.07 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance shall be equipped with reflectors
as required by the regulations provided for in that section.
      (2)   Every such reflector shall be of a size and characteristics and so
maintained as to be visible at night from all distances within 300 feet to 50
feet from the vehicle.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.06)
§ 438.06 SAFETY LIGHTING ON COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (a)   (1)   When the Director of Public Safety prescribes and promulgates
regulations relating to clearance lights, marker lights, reflectors and stop
lights on buses, trucks, commercial tractors, trailers, semitrailers and pole
trailers, when operated upon any highway, these vehicles shall be equipped as
required by the regulations, and the equipment shall be lighted at all times
mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
except that clearance lights and side marker lights need not be lighted on any
such vehicle when it is operated within the municipality where there is
sufficient light to reveal any person or substantial object on the highway at a
distance of 500 feet.
      (2)   This equipment shall be in addition to all other lights
specifically required by R.C. § 4513.03 through 4513.16, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinances.
      (3)   Vehicles operated under the jurisdiction of the Public Utilities
Commission are not subject to this section.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.07)
§ 438.07 OBSCURED LIGHTS ON VEHICLES IN COMBINATION.
   Whenever motor and other vehicles are operated in combination during the
time that lights are required, any light, except tail lights, which by reason
of its location on a vehicle of the combination would be obscured by another
vehicle of the combination, need not be lighted, but this section does not
affect the requirement that lighted clearance lights be displayed on the front
of the foremost vehicle required to have clearance lights or that all lights
required on the rear of the rearmost vehicle of any combination shall be
lighted.
(R.C. § 4513.08)
§ 438.08 RED LIGHT OR RED FLAG ON EXTENDED LOADS.
   (a)   Whenever the load upon any vehicle extends to the rear four feet or
more beyond the bed or body of this vehicle, there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear end of the load, at the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, a red light or lantern plainly
visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the sides and rear. The red
light or lantern required by this section is in addition to the red rear light
required upon every vehicle. At any other time there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear end of the load a red flag or cloth not less than 16 inches
square.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.09)
§ 438.09 LIGHTS ON PARKED OR STOPPED VEHICLES.
   (a)   Except in case of an emergency, whenever a vehicle is parked or
stopped upon a roadway open to traffic or a shoulder adjacent thereto, whether
attended or unattended, during the times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the vehicle shall be equipped
with one or more lights which shall exhibit a white or amber light on the
roadway side visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the vehicle,
and a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear. No lights need
be displayed upon any such vehicle when it is stopped or parked within the
municipality where there is sufficient light to reveal any person or
substantial object within a distance of 500 feet upon the highway. Any lighted
headlights upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or dimmed.
(R.C. § 4513.10)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 438.10 LIGHTS ON SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES; EMBLEM REQUIRED; LIGHTS AND REFLECTORS
ON MULTI-WHEEL AGRICULTURAL TRACTORS OR FARM MACHINERY.
   (a)   All vehicles other than bicycles, including animal-drawn vehicles and
vehicles referred to in R.C. § 4513.02(G), not specifically required to be
equipped with lamps or other lighting devices by R.C. § 4513.03 through
4513.10, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, shall, at the
times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, be equipped with at least one lamp displaying a white light visible
from a distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the front of the vehicle and
also shall be equipped with two lamps displaying red light visible from a
distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the rear of the vehicle, or as an
alternative, one lamp displaying a red light visible from a distance of not
less than 1,000 feet to the rear and two red reflectors visible from all
distances of 600 feet to 100 feet to the rear when illuminated by the lawful
lower beams of headlamps. Lamps and reflectors required by this section shall
meet standards adopted by the Director of Public Safety.
   (b)   All boat trailers, farm machinery and other machinery, including all
road construction machinery, upon a street or highway, except when being used
in actual construction and maintenance work in an area guarded by a flagperson,
or where flares are used, or when operating or traveling within the limits of a
construction area designated by the Director of Transportation, a city or
village engineer, or the county engineer of the several counties, when the
construction area is marked in accordance with requirements of the Director and
the Manual and Specifications for a Uniform System of Traffic-Control Devices,
as set forth in R.C. § 4511.09, which is designed for operation at a speed of
25 miles per hour or less, shall be operated at a speed not exceeding 25 miles
per hour, and shall display a triangular slow- moving vehicle (SMV) emblem. The
emblem shall be mounted so as to be visible from a distance of not less than
500 feet to the rear. The Director of Public Safety shall adopt standards and
specifications for the design and position of mounting the SMV emblem. The
standards and specifications for SMV emblems referred to in this section shall
correlate with and, so far as possible, conform with those approved by the
American Society of Agricultural Engineers. A unit of farm machinery that is
designed by its manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per
hour may be operated on a street or highway at a speed greater than 25 miles
per hour provided it is operated in accordance with this section. As used in
this division, “machinery” does not include any vehicle designed to be drawn by
an animal.
   (c)   The use of the SMV emblem shall be restricted to animal-drawn vehicles
and to the slow- moving vehicles specified in division (b) of this section
operating or traveling within the limits of the highway. Its use on slow-moving
vehicles being transported upon other types of vehicles or on any other type of
vehicle or stationary object on the highway is prohibited.
   (d)   (1)   No person shall sell, lease, rent or operate any boat trailer,
farm machinery or other machinery defined as a slow-moving vehicle in division
(b) of this section, except those units designed to be completely mounted on a
primary power unit, which is manufactured or assembled on or after April 1,
1966, unless the vehicle is equipped with a slow-moving vehicle emblem mounting
device as specified in division (b) of this section.
      (2)   No person shall sell, lease, rent or operate on a street or highway
any unit of farm machinery that is designed by its manufacturer to operate at a
speed greater than 25 miles per hour unless the unit displays a slow-moving
vehicle emblem as specified in division (b) of this section and a speed
identification symbol that meets the specifications contained in the American
Society of Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S584 JAN2005, Agricultural
Equipment: Speed Identification Symbol (SIS).
   (e)   Any boat trailer, farm machinery or other machinery defined as a slow-
moving vehicle in division (b) of this section, in addition to the use of the
slow-moving vehicle emblem, and any unit of farm machinery that is designed by
its manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour, in
addition to the display of a speed identification symbol, may be equipped with
a red flashing light that shall be visible from a distance of not less than
1,000 feet to the rear at all times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance. When a double-faced light is
used, it shall display amber light to the front and red light to the rear. In
addition to the lights described in this division, farm machinery and motor
vehicles escorting farm machinery may display a flashing, oscillating or
rotating amber light, as permitted by R.C. § 4513.17 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, and also may display simultaneously flashing
turn signals or warning lights, as permitted by that section.
   (f)   (1)   Every animal-drawn vehicle upon a street or highway shall at all
times be equipped in one of the following ways:
         A.   With a slow-moving vehicle emblem complying with division (b) of
this section;
         B.   With alternate reflective material complying with rules adopted
under division (f)(2) below;
         C.   With both a slow-moving vehicle emblem and alternate reflective
material as specified in division (f)(2) below.
      (2)   Rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety, subject to R.C.
Chapter 119, establishing standards and specifications for the position of
mounting of the alternate reflective material authorized by this division,
permit, as a minimum, the alternate reflective material to be black, gray or
silver in color. The alternate reflective material shall be mounted on the
animal-drawn vehicle so as to be visible, at all times specified in R.C. §
4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, from a distance of
not less than 500 feet to the rear when illuminated by the lawful lower beams
of headlamps.
   (g)   (1)   Every unit of farm machinery that is designed by its
manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour shall display
a slow-moving vehicle emblem and a speed identification symbol that meets the
specifications contained in the American Society of Agricultural Engineers
Standard ANSI/ASAE S584 JAN2005, Agricultural Equipment: Speed Identification
Symbol (SIS) when the unit is operated upon a street or highway, irrespective
of the speed at which the unit is operated on the street or highway. The speed
identification symbol shall indicate the maximum speed in miles per hour at
which the unit of farm machinery is designed by its manufacturer to operate.
The display of the speed identification symbol shall be in accordance with the
standard prescribed in this division.
      (2)   If an agricultural tractor that is designed by its manufacturer to
operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour is being operated on a street
or highway at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour and is towing, pulling or
otherwise drawing a unit of farm machinery, the unit of farm machinery shall
display a slow-moving vehicle emblem and a speed identification symbol that is
the same as the speed identification symbol that is displayed on the
agricultural tractor.
   (h)   When an agricultural tractor that is designed by its manufacturer to
operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour is being operated on a street
or highway at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour, the operator shall
possess some documentation published or provided by the manufacturer indicating
the maximum speed in miles per hour at which the manufacturer designed the
agricultural tractor to operate.
   (i)   As used in this section, “boat trailer” means any vehicle designed and
used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage and a marina,
or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or highway for a
distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less.
(R.C. § 4513.11)
   (j)   Lights and reflector requirements for multi-wheel agricultural
tractors or farm machinery.
      (1)   A.   Every multi-wheel agricultural tractor whose model year was
2001 or earlier, when being operated or traveling on a street or highway at the
times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, at a minimum shall be equipped with and display reflectors and
illuminated amber lamps so that the extreme left and right projections of the
tractor are indicated by flashing lamps displaying amber light, visible to the
front and the rear; by amber reflectors, all visible to the front; and by red
reflectors, all visible to the rear.
         B.   The lamps displaying amber light need not flash simultaneously
and need not flash in conjunction with any directional signals of the tractor.
         C.   The lamps and reflectors required by division (j)(1)A. of this
section and their placement shall meet standards and specifications contained
in rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 119. The rules governing the amber lamps, amber reflectors and red
reflectors and their placement shall correlate with and, as far as possible,
conform with paragraphs 4.1.4.1, 4.1.7.1, and 4.1.7.2, respectively, of the
American Society of Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S279.10 OCT98,
Lighting and Marking of Agricultural Equipment on Highways.
      (2)   Every unit of farm machinery whose model year was 2002 or later,
when being operated or traveling on a street or highway at the times specified
in R.C. § 4513.03, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be
equipped with and display markings and illuminated lamps that meet or exceed
the lighting, illumination and marking standards and specifications that are
applicable to that type of farm machinery for the unit’s model year specified
in the American Society of Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S279.11
APR01, Lighting and Marking of Agricultural Equipment on Highways, or any
subsequent revisions of that standard.
      (3)   The lights and reflectors required by division (j)(1) of this
section are in addition to the slow-moving vehicle emblem and lights required
or permitted by R.C. § 4513.11 or 4513.17, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, to be displayed on farm machinery being operated or
traveling on a street or highway.
      (4)   No person shall operate any unit of farm machinery on a street or
highway or cause any unit of farm machinery to travel on a street or highway in
violation of divisions (j)(1) or (j)(2) of this section.
(R.C. § 4513.111)
   (k)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.11(I), 4513.111(E))
§ 438.11 SPOTLIGHT AND AUXILIARY LIGHTS.
   (a)   (1)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than one
spotlight and every lighted spotlight shall be so aimed and used upon
approaching another vehicle that no part of the high- intensity portion of the
beam will be directed to the left of the prolongation of the extreme left side
of the vehicle, nor more than 100 feet ahead of the vehicle.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than three
auxiliary driving lights mounted on the front of the vehicle. Any such lights
which do not conform to the specifications for auxiliary driving lights and the
regulations for their use prescribed by the Director of Public Safety shall not
be used.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.12)
§ 438.12 COWL, FENDER AND BACK-UP LIGHTS.
   (a)   (1)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with side cowl or fender
lights which shall emit a white or amber light without glare.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with lights on each side thereof
which shall emit a white or amber light without glare.
      (3)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with back-up lights, either
separately or in combination with another light. No back-up lights shall be
continuously lighted when the motor vehicle is in forward motion.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.13)
§ 438.13 TWO LIGHTS DISPLAYED.
   (a)   At all times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, at least two lighted lights shall be displayed, one near
each side of the front of every motor vehicle, except when the vehicle is
parked subject to the regulations governing lights on parked vehicles.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.14)
§ 438.14 USE OF HEADLIGHT BEAMS.
   (a)   Whenever a motor vehicle is being operated on a roadway or shoulder
adjacent thereto during the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the driver shall use a
distribution of light, or composite beam, directed high enough and of
sufficient intensity to reveal persons, vehicles and substantial objects at a
safe distance in advance of the vehicle, subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   Whenever the driver of a vehicle approaches an oncoming vehicle,
the driver shall use a distribution of light, or composite beam, so aimed that
the glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of the oncoming driver.
      (2)   Every new motor vehicle registered in this state which has
multiple-beam road lighting equipment shall be equipped with a beam indicator,
which shall be lighted whenever the uppermost distribution of light from the
headlights is in use, and shall not otherwise be lighted. This indicator shall
be so designed and located that, when lighted, it will be readily visible
without glare to the driver of the vehicle.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.15)
§ 438.15 LIGHTS OF LESS INTENSITY ON SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES.
   (a)   Any motor vehicle may be operated under the conditions specified in
R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance when it is
equipped with two lighted lights upon the front thereof capable of revealing
persons and substantial objects 75 feet ahead, in lieu of lights required in
R.C. § 4513.14, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, provided
that the vehicle shall not be operated at a speed in excess of 20 miles per
hour.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.16)
§ 438.16 NUMBER OF LIGHTS PERMITTED; RED AND FLASHING LIGHTS.
   (a)   Whenever a motor vehicle equipped with headlights is also equipped
with any auxiliary lights or spotlight or any other light on the front thereof
projecting a beam of an intensity greater than 300 candlepower, not more than a
total of five of any such lights on the front of a vehicle shall be lighted at
any one time when the vehicle is upon a highway.
   (b)   Any lighted light or illuminating device upon a motor vehicle, other
than headlights, spotlights, signal lights or auxiliary driving lights, that
projects a beam of light of an intensity greater than 300 candlepower shall be
so directed that no part of the beam will strike the level of the roadway on
which the vehicle stands at a distance of more than 75 feet from the vehicle.
   (c)   (1)   Flashing lights are prohibited on motor vehicles, except as a
means for indicating a right or a left turn, or in the presence of vehicular
traffic hazard requiring unusual care in approaching, or overtaking or passing.
This prohibition does not apply to emergency vehicles, road service vehicles
servicing or towing a disabled vehicle, stationary waste collection vehicles
actively collecting garbage, refuse, trash, or recyclable materials on the
roadside, rural mail delivery vehicles, vehicles as provided in R.C. § 4513.182
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, highway maintenance
vehicles, funeral hearses, funeral escort vehicles and similar equipment
operated by the Department or local authorities, which shall be equipped with
and display, when used on a street or highway for the special purpose
necessitating those lights, a flashing, oscillating or rotating amber light,
but shall not display a flashing, oscillating or rotating light of any other
color, nor to vehicles or machinery permitted by R.C. § 4513.11 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to have a flashing red light.
      (2)   When used on a street or highway, farm machinery and vehicles
escorting farm machinery may be equipped with and display a flashing,
oscillating or rotating amber light, and the prohibition contained in division
(c)(1) of this section does not apply to such machinery or vehicles. Farm
machinery may also display the lights described in R.C. § 4513.11 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (d)   Except a person operating a public safety vehicle, as defined in R.C.
§ 4511.01(E), or a school bus, no person shall operate, move or park upon or
permit to stand within the right-of-way of any public street or highway any
vehicle or equipment that is equipped with and displaying a flashing red or a
flashing combination red and white light, or an oscillating or rotating red
light, or a combination red and white oscillating or rotating light; and except
a public law enforcement officer, or other person sworn to enforce the criminal
and traffic laws of the state, operating a public safety vehicle when on duty,
no person shall operate, move or park upon or permit to stand within the right-
of-way of any street or highway any vehicle or equipment that is equipped with,
or upon which is mounted, and displaying a flashing blue or a flashing
combination blue and white light, or an oscillating or rotating blue light, or
a combination blue and white oscillating or rotating light.
   (e)   This section does not prohibit the use of warning lights required by
law or the simultaneous flashing of turn signals on disabled vehicles or on
vehicles being operated in unfavorable atmospheric conditions in order to
enhance their visibility. This section also does not prohibit the simultaneous
flashing of turn signals or warning lights whether on farm machinery or
vehicles escorting farm machinery when used on a street or highway.
   (f)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.17)
§ 438.165 LIGHTS AND SOUND-PRODUCING DEVICES ON CORONERS’ VEHICLES.
   (a)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a motor vehicle operated
by a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator may be equipped with a
flashing, oscillating or rotating red or blue light and siren, whistle or bell
capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions from a distance of
not less than 500 feet. Such a vehicle may display the flashing, oscillating or
rotating red or blue light and may give the audible signal of the siren,
whistle or bell only when responding to a fatality or a fatal motor vehicle
accident on a street or highway and only at those locations where the stoppage
of traffic impedes the ability of the coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s
investigator to arrive at the site of the fatality.
   (b)   This section does not relieve the coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s
investigator operating a motor vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard
for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.171)
§ 438.17 VEHICLES TRANSPORTING PRESCHOOL CHILDREN.
   (a)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle owned, leased or hired by a
nursery school, kindergarten or day-care center, while transporting preschool
children to or from such an institution, unless the motor vehicle is equipped
with and displaying two amber flashing lights mounted on a bar attached to the
top of the vehicle, and a sign bearing the designation “caution — children,”
which shall be attached to the bar carrying the amber flashing lights in such a
manner as to be legible to persons both in front of and behind the vehicle. The
lights and sign shall meet standards and specifications adopted by the Director
of Public Safety.
   (b)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle displaying the lights and sign
required by this section for any purpose other than the transportation of
preschool children as provided in this section.
(R.C. § 4513.182)
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 438.18 FOCUS AND AIM OF HEADLIGHTS.
   (a)   No person shall use any lights mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 through
4513.18, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, upon any motor
vehicle, trailer or semitrailer unless these lights are equipped, mounted and
adjusted as to focus and aim in accordance with regulations which are
prescribed by the Director of Public Safety.
   (b)   The headlights on any motor vehicle shall comply with the headlamp
color requirements contained in Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number
108, 49 C.F.R. §
571.108. No person shall operate a motor vehicle in violation of this division.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.19)
§ 438.19 MOTOR VEHICLE AND MOTORCYCLE BRAKES.
   (a)   The following requirements govern as to brake equipment on vehicles:
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, when operated upon a
highway shall be equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and
to stop and hold the motor vehicle, including two separate means of applying
the brakes, each of which means shall be effective to apply the brakes to at
least two wheels. If these two separate means of applying the brakes are
connected in any way, then on those motor vehicles, manufactured or assembled
after January 1, 1942, they shall be so constructed that failure of any one
part of the operating mechanism shall not leave the motor vehicle without
brakes on at least two wheels.
      (2)   Every motorcycle, when operated upon a highway shall be equipped
with at least one adequate brake, which may be operated by hand or by foot.
      (3)   Every motorized bicycle shall be equipped with brakes meeting the
rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety under R.C. § 4511.521.
      (4)   When operated upon the highways, the following vehicles shall be
equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and to
hold the vehicle, designed to be applied by the driver of the towing motor
vehicle from its cab, and also designed and connected so that, in case of a
breakaway of the towed vehicle, the brakes shall be automatically applied:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in this section, every trailer or
semitrailer, except a pole trailer, with an empty weight of 2,000 pounds or
more, manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1942;
         B.   Every manufactured home or travel trailer with an empty weight of
2,000 pounds or more, manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 2001.
      (5)   Every watercraft trailer with a gross weight or manufacturer’s
gross vehicle weight rating of 3,000 pounds or more that is manufactured or
assembled on or after January 1, 2008, shall have separate brakes equipped with
hydraulic surge or electrically operated brakes on two wheels.
      (6)   In any combination of motor-drawn trailers or semitrailers equipped
with brakes, means shall be provided for applying the rearmost brakes in
approximate synchronism with the brakes on the towing vehicle, and developing
the required braking effort on the rearmost wheels at the fastest rate; or
means shall be provided for applying braking effort first on the rearmost
brakes; or both of the above means, capable of being used alternatively, may be
employed.
      (7)   Every vehicle and combination of vehicles, except motorcycles and
motorized bicycles, and except trailers and semitrailers of a gross weight of
less than 2,000 pounds, and pole trailers, shall be equipped with parking
brakes adequate to hold the vehicle on any grade on which it is operated, under
all conditions of loading, on a surface free from snow, ice or loose material.
The parking brakes shall be capable of being applied in conformance with the
foregoing requirements by the driver’s muscular effort or by spring action or
by equivalent means. Their operation may be assisted by the service brakes or
other source of power provided that failure of the service brake actuation
system or other power assisting mechanism will not prevent the parking brakes
from being applied in conformance with the foregoing requirements. The parking
brakes shall be so designed that when once applied they shall remain applied
with the required effectiveness despite exhaustion of any source of energy or
leakage of any kind.
      (8)   The same brake drums, brake shoes and lining assemblies, brake shoe
anchors, and mechanical brake shoe actuation mechanism normally associated with
the wheel brake assemblies may be used for both the service brakes and the
parking brakes. If the means of applying the parking brakes and the service
brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so constructed that failure of
any one part shall not leave the vehicle without operative brakes.
      (9)   Every motor vehicle or combination of motor-drawn vehicles shall,
at all times and under all conditions of loading, be capable of being stopped
on a dry, smooth, level road free from loose material, upon application of the
service or foot brake, within the following specified distances, or shall be
capable of being decelerated at a sustained rate corresponding to these
distances:
         A.   Vehicles or combinations of vehicles having brakes on all wheels
shall come to a stop in 30 feet or less from a speed of 20 miles per hour.
         B.   Vehicles or combinations of vehicles not having brakes on all
wheels shall come to a stop in 40 feet or less from a speed of 20 miles per
hour.
      (10)   All brakes shall be maintained in good working order and shall be
so adjusted as to operate as equally as practicable with respect to the wheels
on opposite sides of the vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.20)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 438.20 HORN, SIREN AND THEFT ALARM SIGNAL.
   (a)   (1)   Every motor vehicle when operated upon a highway shall be
equipped with a horn which is in good working order and capable of emitting
sound audible, under normal conditions, from a distance of not less than 200
feet.
      (2)   No motor vehicle shall be equipped with, nor shall any person use
upon a vehicle, any siren, whistle or bell. Any vehicle may be equipped with a
theft alarm signal device which shall be so arranged that it cannot be used as
an ordinary warning signal. Every emergency vehicle shall be equipped with a
siren, whistle or bell, capable of emitting sound audible under normal
conditions from a distance of not less than 500 feet and of a type approved by
the Director of Public Safety. The equipment shall not be used except when the
vehicle is operated in response to an emergency call or is in the immediate
pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law, in which case the driver
of the emergency vehicle shall sound the equipment when it is necessary to warn
pedestrians and other drivers of the approach thereof.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.21)
§ 438.21 MUFFLER; MUFFLER CUTOUT; EXCESSIVE SMOKE, GAS OR NOISE.
   (a)   (1)   Every motor vehicle and motorcycle with an internal combustion
engine shall at all times be equipped with a muffler which is in good working
order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise, and no
person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass or similar device upon a motor
vehicle on a highway. Every motorcycle muffler shall be equipped with baffle
plates.
      (2)   No person shall own, operate or have in the person’s possession any
motor vehicle or motorcycle equipped with a device for producing excessive
smoke or gas, or so equipped as to permit oil or any other chemical to flow
into or upon the exhaust pipe or muffler of the vehicle, or equipped in any way
to produce or emit smoke or dangerous or annoying gases from any portion of the
vehicle, other than the ordinary gases emitted by the exhaust of an internal
combustion engine under normal operation.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.22)
§ 438.22 REAR-VIEW MIRROR; CLEAR VIEW TO FRONT, BOTH SIDES AND REAR.
   (a)   Every motor vehicle and motorcycle shall be equipped with a mirror so
located as to reflect to the operator a view of the highway to the rear of the
vehicle or motorcycle. Operators of vehicles and motorcycles shall have a clear
and unobstructed view to the front and to both sides of their vehicles and
motorcycles and shall have a clear view to the rear of their vehicles and
motorcycles by mirror.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.23)
§ 438.23 WINDSHIELD REQUIRED; SIGN OR POSTER UPON WINDSHIELD; WINDSHIELD WIPER.
   (a)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle on a street or highway in this
municipality, other than a motorcycle or motorized bicycle, that is not
equipped with a windshield.
   (b)   (1)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle, other than a bus, with
any sign, poster or other nontransparent material upon the front windshield,
sidewings, side or rear windows of the vehicle other than a certificate or
other paper required to be displayed by law, except that there may be in the
lower left-hand or right-hand corner of the windshield a sign, poster or decal
not to exceed four inches in height by six inches in width. No sign, poster or
decal shall be displayed in the front windshield in such a manner as to conceal
the vehicle identification number for the motor vehicle when, in accordance
with federal law, that number is located inside the vehicle passenger
compartment and so placed as to be readable through the vehicle glazing without
moving any part of the vehicle.
      (2)   Division (b)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
driving a passenger car with an electronic device, including an antenna,
electronic tolling or other transponder, camera, directional navigation device,
or other similar electronic device located in the front windshield if the
device meets both of the following:
         A.   It does not restrict the vehicle operator’s sight lines to the
road and highway signs and signals.
         B.   It does not conceal the vehicle identification number.
      (3)   Division (b)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
driving a commercial car with an electronic device, including an antenna,
electronic tolling or other transponder, camera, directional navigation device,
or other similar electronic device located in the front windshield if the
device meets both of the following:
         A.   It does not restrict the vehicle operator’s sight lines to the
road and highway signs and signals.
         B.   It is mounted not more than six inches below the upper edge of
the windshield and is outside the area swept by the vehicle’s windshield
wipers.
   (c)   The windshield on every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device
for cleaning rain, snow or other moisture from the windshield. The device shall
be maintained in good working order and so constructed as to be controlled or
operated by the operator of the vehicle.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.24)
§ 438.24 TINTED GLASS; MATERIALS ON GLASS.
   (a)   No person shall operate, on any highway or other public or private
property open to the public for vehicular travel or parking, lease or rent any
motor vehicle that is registered in this state unless the motor vehicle
conforms to the requirements concerning tinted glass and reflectorized material
of R.C. § 4513.241 and of any applicable rule adopted under that section.
   (b)   No person shall install in or on any motor vehicle any glass or other
material that fails to conform to the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or of any
rule adopted under that section.
   (c)   (1)   No used motor vehicle dealer or new motor vehicle dealer, as
defined in R.C. § 4517.01, shall sell any motor vehicle that fails to conform
to the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or of any rule adopted under that
section.
      (2)   No manufacturer, remanufacturer, or distributor, as defined in R.C.
§ 4517.01, shall provide to a motor vehicle dealer licensed under R.C. Chapter
4517 or to any other person, a motor vehicle that fails to conform to the
requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or of any rule adopted under that section.
   (d)   No reflectorized materials shall be permitted upon or in any front
windshield, side windows, sidewings or rear window.
   (e)   This section does not apply to the manufacturer’s tinting or glazing
of motor vehicle windows or windshields that is otherwise in compliance with or
permitted by Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 205.
   (f)   With regard to any side window behind a driver’s seat or any rear
window other than any window on an emergency door, this division (b) does not
apply to any school bus used to transport a child with disabilities pursuant to
R.C. Chapter 3323, whom it is impossible or impractical to transport by regular
school bus in the course of regular route transportation provided by a school
district. As used in this division, “child with disabilities” has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 3323.01.
   (g)   This section does not apply to any school bus that is to be sold and
operated outside the municipality.
   (h)   (1)   This section does not apply to a motor vehicle used by a law
enforcement agency under either of the following circumstances:
         A.   The vehicle does not have distinctive markings of a law
enforcement vehicle but is operated by or on behalf of the law enforcement
agency in an authorized investigation or other activity requiring that the
presence and identity of the vehicle occupants be undisclosed.
         B.   The vehicle primarily is used by the law enforcement canine unit
for transporting a police dog.
      (2)   As used in this division, “law enforcement agency” means a police
department, the office of a sheriff, the State Highway Patrol, a county
prosecuting attorney, or a federal, state, or local governmental body that
enforces criminal laws and that has employees who have a statutory power of
arrest.
(R.C. § 4513.241(C) - (J))
   (i)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a), (c)(2) or (d) of this section is
guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (c)(1) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor if the dealer or the dealer’s agent knew of the nonconformity
at the time of sale.
      (3)   A.   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree, except that an organization may not be
convicted unless the act of installation was authorized by the board of
directors, trustees, partners, or by a high managerial officer acting on behalf
of the organization, and installation was performed by an employee of the
organization acting within the scope of the person’s employment.
         B.   In addition to any other penalty imposed under this section,
whoever violates division (b) of this section is liable in a civil action to
the owner of a motor vehicle on which was installed the nonconforming glass or
material for any damages incurred by that person as a result of the
installation of the nonconforming glass or material, costs of maintaining the
civil action, and attorney fees.
         C.   In addition to any other penalty imposed under this section, if
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation
of division (b) of this section and the offender is a motor vehicle repair
operator registered under R.C. Chapter 4775 or a motor vehicle dealer licensed
under R.C. Chapter 4517, whoever violates division (b) of this section is
subject to a registration or license suspension, as applicable, for a period of
not more than 180 days.
(R.C. § 4513.241(K))
Statutory reference:
   Administrative regulations, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-41
§ 438.25 LIMITED LOAD EXTENSION ON LEFT SIDE OF PASSENGER VEHICLE.
   (a)   No passenger-type vehicle shall be operated on a highway with any load
carried on the vehicle which extends more than six inches beyond the line of
the fenders on the vehicle’s left side.
(R.C. § 4513.30)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 438.26 MOTOR VEHICLE STOP LIGHTS.
   (a)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer and pole trailer when
operated upon a highway shall be equipped with two or more stop lights, except
that passenger cars manufactured or assembled prior to January 1, 1967,
motorcycles and motor-driven cycles shall be equipped with at least one stop
light. Stop lights shall be mounted on the rear of the vehicle, actuated upon
application of the service brake, and may be incorporated with other rear
lights. These stop lights when actuated shall emit a red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear; provided that in the case of a train of
vehicles only the stop lights on the rearmost vehicle need be visible from the
distance specified.
      (2)   These stop lights when actuated shall give a steady warning light
to the rear of a vehicle or train of vehicles to indicate the intention of the
operator to diminish the speed of or stop a vehicle or train of vehicles.
      (3)   When stop lights are used as required by this section, they shall
be constructed or installed so as to provide adequate and reliable illumination
and shall conform to the appropriate rules and regulations established under
R.C. § 4513.19.
      (4)   Historical motor vehicles as defined in R.C. § 4503.181, not
originally manufactured with stop lights, are not subject to this section.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.071)
§ 438.27 BUMPERS.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Gross vehicle weight rating.” The manufacturer’s gross vehicle
weight rating established for that vehicle.
      (2)   “Manufacturer.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      (3)   “Multipurpose passenger vehicle.” A motor vehicle with motive
power, except a motorcycle, designed to carry ten persons or less, that is
constructed either on a truck chassis or with special features for occasional
off-road operation.
      (4)   “Passenger car.” Any motor vehicle with motive power, designed for
carrying ten persons or less, except a multipurpose passenger vehicle or
motorcycle.
      (5)   “Truck.” Every motor vehicle, except trailers and semitrailers,
designed and used to carry property and having a gross vehicle weight rating of
10,000 pounds or less.
   (b)   Rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety, in accordance with
R.C. Chapter 119, shall govern the maximum bumper height or, in the absence of
bumpers and in cases where bumper height has been lowered or modified, the
maximum height to the bottom of the frame rail of any passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck.
   (c)   No person shall operate upon a street or highway any passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck registered in this state that does not
conform to the requirements of this section or any applicable rule adopted
pursuant to R.C. § 4513.021.
   (d)   No person shall modify any motor vehicle registered in this state in
such a manner as to cause the vehicle body or chassis to come in contact with
the ground, expose the fuel tank to damage from collision, or cause the wheels
to come in contact with the body under normal operation, and no person shall
disconnect any part of the original suspension system of the vehicle to defeat
the safe operation of that system.
   (e)   Nothing contained in this section or in the rules adopted pursuant to
R.C. § 4513.021 shall be construed to prohibit either of the following:
      (1)   The installation upon a passenger car, multipurpose passenger
vehicle or truck registered in this state of heavy duty equipment, including
shock absorbers and overload springs.
      (2)   The operation on a street or highway of a passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle, or truck registered in this state with normal
wear to the suspension system if the normal wear does not adversely affect the
control of the vehicle.
   (f)   This section and the rules adopted pursuant to R.C. § 4513.021 do not
apply to any specially designed or modified passenger car, multipurpose
passenger vehicle or truck when operated off a street or highway in races and
similar events.
   (g)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.021)
Statutory reference:
   Maximum height on bumpers, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-43
§ 438.28 AIR CLEANER REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate upon any street, alley or other public place any
motor vehicle which is not equipped with a functioning air cleaner, except for
motor vehicles equipped with electronic fuel- injection engines.
§ 438.29 USE OF CHILD RESTRAINTS.
   (a)   When any child who is in either or both of the following categories is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4511.01, that is required by the United States
Department of Transportation to be equipped with seat belts at the time of
manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child
properly secured in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions in a child
restraint system that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards:
      (1)   A child who is less than four years of age;
      (2)   A child who weighs less than 40 pounds.
   (b)   When any child who is in either or both of the following categories is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab, that is owned,
leased or otherwise under the control of a nursery school or day-care center,
the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child properly secured in
accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions in a child restraint system
that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards:
      (1)   A child who is less than four years of age;
      (2)   A child who weighs less than 40 pounds.
   (c)   When any child who is less than eight years of age and less than four
feet nine inches in height, who is not required by division (a) or (b) of this
section to be secured in a child restraint system, is being transported in a
motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 4511.01 or a vehicle that is regulated under R.C. § 5104.015, that is
required by the United States Department of Transportation to be equipped with
seat belts at the time of manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor
vehicle shall have the child properly secured in accordance with the
manufacturer’s instructions on a booster seat that meets federal motor vehicle
safety standards.
   (d)   When any child who is at least eight years of age but not older than
15 years of age, and who is not otherwise required by division (a), (b), or (c)
of this section to be secured in a child restraint system or booster seat, is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4511.01, that is required by the United States
Department of Transportation to be equipped with seat belts at the time of
manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child
properly restrained either in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions
in a child restraint system that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards
or in an occupant restraining device as defined in R.C. § 4513.263.
   (e)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause an operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (c) or (d) of this section has been
or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation or
summons for a violation of division (c) or (d) of this section or causing the
arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for a violation of division
(c) or (d) of this section, and absent another violation of law, a law
enforcement officer’s view of the interior or visual inspection of a motor
vehicle being operated on any street or highway may not be used for the purpose
of determining whether a violation of division (c) or (d) of this section has
been or is being committed.
   (f)   The Director of Public Safety shall adopt such rules as are necessary
to carry out this section.
   (g)   The failure of an operator of a motor vehicle to secure a child in a
child restraint system, a booster seat or in an occupant restraining device as
required in this section is not negligence imputable to the child, is not
admissible as evidence in any civil action involving the rights of the child
against any other person allegedly liable for injuries to the child, is not to
be used as a basis for a criminal prosecution of the operator of the motor
vehicle other than a prosecution for a violation of this section, and is not
admissible as evidence in any criminal action involving the operator of the
motor vehicle other than a prosecution for a violation of this section.
   (h)   This section does not apply when an emergency exists that threatens
the life of any person operating or occupying a motor vehicle that is being
used to transport a child who otherwise would be required to be restrained
under this section. This section does not apply to a person operating a motor
vehicle who has an affidavit signed by a physician licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4731 or a chiropractor licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4734 that states that the child who otherwise would be
required to be restrained under this section has a physical impairment that
makes use of a child restraint system, booster seat or an occupant restraining
device impossible or impractical, provided that the person operating the
vehicle has safely and appropriately restrained the child in accordance with
any recommendations of the physician or chiropractor as noted on the affidavit.
   (i)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any person to
carry with the person the birth certificate of a child to prove the age of the
child, but the production of a valid birth certificate for a child showing that
the child was not of an age to which this section applies is a defense against
any ticket, citation or summons issued for violating this section.
   (j)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a), (b), (c), or (d) of this section
shall be punished as follows, provided that the failure of an operator of a
motor vehicle to secure more than one child in a child restraint system,
booster seat or occupant restraining device as required by this section that
occurred at the same time, on the same day and at the same location is deemed
to be a single violation of this section:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (j)(1)B. of this
section, the offender is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not
less than $25 nor more than $75.
         B.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (a), (b),(c) or (d) of this section or of a
state law or municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent any of those
divisions, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   All fines imposed pursuant to division (j)(1) of this section shall
be forwarded to the State Treasurer for deposit in the Child Highway Safety
Fund created by R.C. § 4511.81(I).
(R.C. § 4511.81(A) - (H), (K), (L))
§ 438.30 USE OF OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICES.
   (a)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   “Automobile.” Any commercial tractor, passenger car, commercial car
or truck that is required to be factory-equipped with an occupant restraining
device for the operator or any passenger by regulations adopted by the United
States Secretary of Transportation pursuant to the “National Traffic and Motor
Vehicle Safety Act of 1966”, 80 Stat. 719, 15 U.S.C. 1392.
      (2)   “Commercial tractor,” “passenger car” and “commercial car.” Have
the same meanings as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      (3)   “Occupant restraining device.” A seat safety belt, shoulder belt,
harness or other safety device for restraining a person who is an operator of
or passenger in an automobile and that satisfies the minimum federal vehicle
safety standards established by the United States Department of Transportation.
      (4)   “Passenger.” Any person in an automobile, other than its operator,
who is occupying a seating position for which an occupant restraining device is
provided.
      (5)   “Tort action.” A civil action for damages for injury, death or loss
to person or property. “Tort action” includes a product liability claim, as
defined in R.C. § 2307.71, and as asbestos claim, as defined in R.C. § 2307.91,
but does not include a civil action for damages for breach of contract or
another agreement between persons.
      (6)   “Vehicle” and “motor vehicle.” As used in the definitions of the
terms set forth above, have the same meanings as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   (b)   Prohibited Acts. No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate an automobile on any street or highway unless he or she is
wearing all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant
restraining device, or operate a school bus that has an occupant restraining
device installed for use in its operator’s seat unless he or she is wearing all
of the available elements of the device, as properly adjusted.
      (2)   Operate an automobile on any street or highway unless each
passenger in the automobile who is subject to the requirement set forth in
division (b)(3) of this section is wearing all of the available elements of a
properly adjusted occupant restraining device.
      (3)   Occupy, as a passenger, a seating position on the front seat of an
automobile being operated on any street or highway unless he or she is wearing
all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining
device.
      (4)   Operate a taxicab on any street or highway unless all factory-
equipped occupant restraining devices in the taxicab are maintained in usable
form.
   (c)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Division (b)(3) of this section does not apply to a person who is
required by R.C. § 4511.81 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to
be secured in a child restraint device or booster seat.
      (2)   Division (b)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
an employee of the United States Postal Service or of a newspaper home delivery
service, during any period in which the person is engaged in the operation of
an automobile to deliver mail or newspapers to addressees.
      (3)   Divisions (b)(1) and (b)(3) of this section do not apply to a
person who has an affidavit signed by a physician licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4731 or a chiropractor licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4734 that states the following:
         A.   That the person has a physical impairment that makes use of an
occupant restraining device impossible or impractical;
         B.   Whether the physical impairment is temporary, permanent, or
reasonably expected to be permanent;
         C.   If the physical impairment is temporary, how long the physical
impairment is expected to make the use of an occupant restraining device
impossible or impractical.
      (4)   Divisions (b)(1) and (b)(3) of this section do not apply to a
person who has registered with the Registrar of Motor Vehicles in accordance
with division (c)(5) of this section.
      (5)   A person who has received an affidavit under division (c)(3) of
this section stating that the person has a permanent or reasonably expected to
be permanent physical impairment that makes use of an occupant restraining
device impossible or impracticable may register with the Registrar of Motor
Vehicles attesting to that fact. Upon such registration, the Registrar shall
make that information available in the law enforcement automated data system. A
person included in the database under division (c)(5) of this section is not
required to have the affidavit obtained in accordance with division (c)(3) of
this section in their possession while operating or occupying an automobile.
      (6)   A physician or chiropractor who issues an affidavit for the
purposes of division (c)(3) or (c)(4) of this section is immune from civil
liability arising from any injury or death sustained by the person who was
issued the affidavit due to the failure of the person to wear an occupant
restraining device unless the physician or chiropractor, in issuing the
affidavit, acted in a manner that constituted willful, wanton, or reckless
misconduct.
      (7)   The Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall adopt rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 establishing a process for a person to be included in the
database under division (c)(5) of this section. The information provided and
included in the database under division (c)(5) of this section is not a public
record subject to inspection or copying under R.C. § 149.43.
   (d)   Officers Not Permitted to Stop Cars to Determine Violation.
Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law enforcement
officer shall cause an operator of an automobile being operated on any street
or highway to stop the automobile for the sole purpose of determining whether a
violation of division (b) of this section has been or is being committed or for
the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation or summons for the violation or
for causing the arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for the
violation. No law enforcement officer shall view the interior or visually
inspect any automobile being operated on any street or highway for the sole
purpose of determining whether the violation has been or is being committed.
   (e)   Use of Fines for Educational Program. All fines collected for
violations of division (b) of this section shall be forwarded to the State
Treasurer for deposit in the funds as set forth in R.C. § 4513.263(E).
   (f)   Limitations on Evidence Used for Prosecution.
      (1)   Subject to division (f)(2) of this section, the failure of a person
to wear all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant
restraining device in violation of division (b)(1) or (b)(3) of this section or
the failure of a person to ensure that each minor who is a passenger of an
automobile being operated by that person is wearing all of the available
elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device in violation of
division (b)(2) of this section shall not be considered or used by the trier of
fact in a tort action as evidence of negligence or contributory negligence.
But, the trier of fact may determine based on evidence admitted consistent with
the Ohio Rules of Evidence that the failure contributed to the harm alleged in
the tort action and may diminish a recovery of compensatory damages that
represents non-economic loss, as defined in R.C. § 2307.011, in a tort action
that could have been recovered but for the plaintiff’s failure to wear all of
the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device.
Evidence of that failure shall not be used as a basis for a criminal
prosecution of the person other than a prosecution for a violation of this
section; and shall not be admissible as evidence in a criminal action involving
the person other than a prosecution for a violation of this section.
      (2)   If, at the time of an accident involving a passenger car equipped
with occupant restraining devices, any occupant of the passenger car who
sustained injury or death was not wearing an available occupant restraining
device, was not wearing all of the available elements of such a device, or was
not wearing such a device as properly adjusted, then, consistent with the Rules
of Evidence, the fact that the occupant was not wearing the available occupant
restraining device, was not wearing all of the available elements of such a
device, or was not wearing such a device as properly adjusted is admissible in
evidence in relation to any claim for relief in a tort action to the extent
that the claim for relief satisfies all of the following:
         A.   It seeks to recover damages for injury or death to the occupant;
         B.   The defendant in question is the manufacturer, designer,
distributor or seller of the passenger car;
         C.   The claim for relief against the defendant in question is that
the injury or death sustained by the occupant was enhanced or aggravated by
some design defect in the passenger car or that the passenger car was not
crashworthy.
   (g)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (b)(1) of this section shall be fined
$30.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (b)(2) of this section shall be subject
to the penalty set forth in §
408.02.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (b)(3) of this section shall be fined
$20.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (b)(4) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of
division (b)(4) of this section, whoever violates division (b)(4) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4513.263)
§ 438.31 REPEALED.
§ 438.32 AIR BAGS.
   (a)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Air bag.” Has the same meaning as in 49 C.F.R. §
579.4, as amended.
      (2)   “Counterfeit air bag.” An air bag displaying a mark identical or
similar to the genuine mark of a motor vehicle manufacturer, without the
authorization of the motor vehicle manufacturer.
      (3)   “Nonfunctional air bag.” Any of the following:
         A.   A replacement air bag that has been previously deployed or
damaged;
         B.   A replacement air bag that has an electrical fault that is
detected by the air bag diagnostic system of a vehicle after the air bag is
installed;
         C.   A counterfeit air bag, air bag cover, or some other object that
is installed in a vehicle to deceive an owner or operator of the vehicle into
believing that a functional air bag has been installed.
   (b)   No person shall install or reinstall in any motor vehicle a
counterfeit or nonfunctional air bag or any object intended to fulfill the
function of an air bag other than an air bag that was designed in conformance
with or that is regulated by Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 208
for the make, model, and model year of the vehicle, knowing that the object is
not in accordance with that standard.
   (c)   No person shall knowingly manufacture, import, sell, or offer for sale
any of the following:
      (1)   A counterfeit air bag;
      (2)   A nonfunctional air bag;
      (3)   Any other object that is intended to be installed in a motor
vehicle to fulfill the function of an air bag and that is not in conformance
with Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 208 for the make, model, and
model year of the vehicle in which the object is intended to be installed.
   (d)   No person shall knowingly sell, install, or reinstall a device in a
motor vehicle that causes the diagnostic system of a vehicle to inaccurately
indicate that the vehicle is equipped with a functional air bag.
   (e)   (1)   Whoever violates division (b) or (d) of this section is guilty
of improper replacement of a motor vehicle air bag, a misdemeanor of the first
degree on a first offense. On each subsequent offense, or if the violation
results in serious physical harm to an individual, the person is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (c) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Each manufacture, importation, installation, reinstallation, sale,
or offer for sale in violation of this section shall constitute a separate and
distinct violation.
(R.C. § 4549.20)
§ 438.99 PENALTY.
Editor’s note:
   See §§
408.01 and
408.02 for general traffic code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
CHAPTER 440: COMMERCIAL AND HEAVY VEHICLES
Section
440.01   Load limits.
440.02   Maximum width, height and length.
440.03   Wheel protectors.
440.04   Vehicles transporting explosives.
440.05   Towing requirements; exception to size and weight restrictions.
440.06   Loads dropping or leaking; tracking mud; removal required.
440.07   Vehicles with spikes, lugs and chains.
440.08   Occupying travel trailer or manufactured home while in motion.
440.09   Route and load information.
440.10   Shifting load; loose loads.
440.11   Chauffeured limousines.
440.99   Penalty.
Cross-references:
   Bus stops and taxicab stands, see §
452.11
   Fatigued or ill drivers, see §
442.09
   Riding in cargo storage areas, see §
416.06
   Slow-moving equipment at grade crossings, see §
432.35
   Stopping at grade crossings, see §§
432.34,
432.35
   Truck loading zones, see §
452.10
Statutory references:
   Arrest notice of drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
   Display of certificates of registration, see R.C. § 4549.18
§ 440.01 LOAD LIMITS.
   (a)   State Regulations.
      (1)   A.   The municipality, with respect to highways under their
jurisdiction, upon application in writing, shall issue a special regional heavy
hauling permit authorizing the applicant to operate or move a vehicle or
combination of vehicles as follows:
            1.   At a size or weight of vehicle or load exceeding the maximum
specified in R.C. § 5577.01 to 5577.09, or otherwise not in conformity with
R.C. § 4513.01 to 4513.37.
            2.   Upon any highway under the jurisdiction of municipality except
those highways with a condition insufficient to bear the weight of the vehicle
or combination of vehicles as stated in the application.
            3.   Issuance of a special regional heavy hauling permit is subject
to the payment of a fee established by the municipality in accordance with this
section.
         B.   In circumstances where a person is not eligible to receive a
permit under division (a)(1)A. of this section, the municipality, with respect
to highways under its jurisdiction, upon application in writing and for good
cause shown, may issue a special permit in writing authorizing the applicant to
operate or move a vehicle or combination of vehicles of a size or weight of
vehicle or load exceeding the maximum specified in R.C. § 5577.01 through
5577.09, or otherwise not in conformity with R.C. § 4513.01 through 4513.37,
upon any highway under its jurisdiction.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 715.22 and 723.01, the holder of a permit
issued by the Director of Transportation under R.C. § 4513.34 may move the
vehicle or combination of vehicles described in the permit on any highway that
is a part of the state highway system when the movement is partly within and
partly without the corporate limits of the municipality. No local authority
shall require any other permit or license or charge any license fee or other
charge against the holder of a permit for the movement of a vehicle or
combination of vehicles on any highway which is a part of the state highway
system. The Ohio Director of Transportation shall not require the holder of a
permit issued by the municipality to obtain a special permit for the movement
of vehicles or combination of vehicles on highways within the jurisdiction of
the municipality. Permits may be issued for any period of time not to exceed
one year, as the local authority in its discretion determines advisable or for
the duration of any public construction project.
      (3)   A.   The application for a permit issued under this section shall
be in the form that the municipality prescribes. The municipality may prescribe
a permit fee to be imposed and collected when any permit described in this
section is issued. The permit fee may be in an amount sufficient to reimburse
the municipality for the administrative costs incurred in issuing the permit,
and also to cover the cost of normal and expected damage caused to the roadway
or a street or highway structure as the result of the operation of the
nonconforming vehicle or combination of vehicles.
         B.   For the purposes of this section and of rules adopted by the
Director under R.C. § 4513.34, milk transported in bulk by vehicle is deemed a
nondivisible load.
         C.   For purposes of this section and of rules adopted by the Director
under R.C. § 4513.34, three or fewer aluminum coils, transported by a vehicle,
are deemed a nondivisible load. The Director shall adopt rules establishing
requirements for an aluminum coil permit that are substantially similar to the
requirements for a steel coil permit under O.A.C. Chapter 5501:2-1.
      (4)   The municipality shall issue a special regional heavy hauling
permit under division (a)(1)A. of this section upon application and payment of
the applicable fee. However, the municipality may issue or withhold a special
permit specified in division (a)(1)B. of this section. If a permit is to be
issued, the municipality may limit or prescribe conditions of operation for the
vehicle and may require the posting of a bond or other security conditioned
upon the sufficiency of the permit fee to compensate for damage caused to the
roadway or a street or highway structure. In addition, the municipality, as a
condition of issuance of an overweight permit, may require the applicant to
develop and enter into a mutual agreement with the municipality to compensate
for or to repair excess damage caused to the roadway by travel under the
permit.
      (5)   Every permit issued under this section shall be carried in the
vehicle or combination of vehicles to which it refers and shall be open to
inspection by any police officer or authorized agent of any authority granting
the permit. No person shall violate any of the terms of a permit.
      (6)   The Director of Transportation may debar an applicant from applying
for a special permit under this section upon a finding based on a reasonable
belief that the applicant has done any of the actions specified in R.C. §
4513.34(F).
      (7)   Notice and procedures for debarment shall be as provided in R.C. §
4513.34(G).
      (8)   A.   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under
this section that relate to gross load limits.
         B.   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to axle load by more than 2,000 pounds per axle or group of
axles.
         C.   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to an approved route except upon order of a law enforcement
officer or authorized agent of the issuing authority.
      (9)   A permit issued by the municipality under this section for the
operation of a vehicle or combination of vehicles is valid for the purposes of
the vehicle operation in accordance with the conditions and limitations
specified on the permit. Such a permit is voidable by law enforcement only for
operation of a vehicle or combination of vehicles in violation of the weight,
dimension, or route provisions of the permit. However, a permit is not voidable
for operation in violation of a route provision of a permit if the operation is
upon the order of a law enforcement officer.
(R.C. § 4513.34)
   (b)   Violations. Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of
a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
   (c)   Local Streets. No person shall operate a vehicle exceeding a size as
specified R.C. § 5577.01 through 5577.09, or otherwise not in conformity with
R.C. § 4513.01 through 4513.37, or exceeding a gross weight of five tons, upon
any street in the municipality other than state routes and county roads, except
those local streets designated as a truck route and marked as such by
appropriate traffic signs, and  except when the operation is necessary to load
or unload property, to go to or from the usual place of storage of the vehicle
or to perform any other legitimate business or act other than passage through
the municipality. Operators of vehicles so deviating from either a state route
or a designated truck route within the municipality shall confine the deviation
to that required in order to accomplish the purpose of the departure. On county
roads, Council or other duly designated local authority shall establish
reasonable weight limits commensurate with the construction and material
specifications for the roads and the load resistance of the roads as determined
by the County Engineer. County roads shall be posted with signs indicating the
weight limits.
   (d)   Local Permit and Conditions. Upon application and for good cause, the
Police Chief may issue a local permit authorizing an applicant to move an
oversize or overweight vehicle or combination of vehicles upon local streets
and highways.
      (1)   No permittee shall be required to obtain a special permit from the
Ohio Director of Transportation for the movement of the vehicle or combination
of vehicles on streets or highways under local jurisdiction. However, the
approval of the Ohio Director of Transportation shall be required for movement
upon state routes as provided in division (a) of this section.
      (2)   The Police Chief may grant a permit for a single or round trip, or
for such period of time, not to exceed one year, as the Police Chief in his or
her discretion deems advisable, or for the duration of any construction
project. The Police Chief may limit or prescribe terms or conditions of
operation for the vehicle or combination of vehicles by designating the route,
hours, speed or such other restrictions as may be necessary for the
preservation of the public peace, property, health and safety. The Police Chief
may require the posting of bond or other security necessary to compensate for
any damage to a roadway or road structure.
      (3)   For each such permit, the Police Chief shall charge $25, and for
each hour of time or any part thereof spent by the Police Department in
supervising the movement of the vehicle, the applicant shall pay the sum of
$50.
      (4)   Except as provided in divisions (a) and (b) of this section,
streets and highways shall be posted with signs indicating “no thru trucks -
gross weight 5 tons” or words of similar import to inform drivers of the
limitations imposed by this section. No driver shall disobey the instructions
indicated on any such sign.
      (5)   Violation of any of the limitations, terms or conditions of the
permit granted by the Police Chief shall be cause for immediate revocation or
suspension of the permit and denial of request for any future permit. This
violation shall also subject the violator to the penalties prescribed by §§
408.01 and
408.02.
§ 440.02 MAXIMUM WIDTH, HEIGHT AND LENGTH.
   (a)   No vehicle shall be operated upon the public highways, streets,
bridges and culverts within this municipality whose dimensions exceed those
specified in this section.
   (b)   No such vehicle shall have a width:
      (1)   In excess of 104 inches for passenger bus type vehicles operated
exclusively within the municipality.
      (2)   In excess of 102 inches, excluding such safety devices as are
required by law, for passenger bus type vehicles operated over freeways, and
other state roads with minimum pavement widths of 22 feet, except those roads
or portions of roads over which operation of 102-inch buses is prohibited by
order of the Director of Transportation.
      (3)   In excess of 132 inches for traction engines.
      (4)   In excess of 102 inches for recreational vehicles, excluding safety
devices and retracted awnings and other appurtenances of six inches or less in
width and except that the Director may prohibit the operation of 102-inch
recreational vehicles on designated state highways or portions of highways.
      (5)   In excess of 102 inches, including load, for all other vehicles,
except that the Director may prohibit the operation of 102-inch vehicles on the
state highways or portions of state highways as the Director designates.
   (c)   No such vehicle shall have a length:
      (1)   In excess of 66 feet for passenger bus type vehicles and
articulated passenger bus type vehicles operated by a regional transit
authority pursuant to R.C. § 306.30 to 306.54.
      (2)   In excess of 45 feet for all other passenger bus type vehicles.
      (3)   In excess of 53 feet for any semitrailer when operated in a
commercial tractor- semitrailer combination, with or without load, except that
the Director may prohibit the operation of any such commercial tractor-
semitrailer combination on the state highways or portions of state highways as
the Director designates.
      (4)   In excess of 28.5 feet for any semitrailer or trailer when operated
in a commercial tractor-semitrailer-trailer or commercial tractor-semitrailer-
semitrailer combination, except that the Director may prohibit the operation of
any such commercial tractor-semitrailer-trailer or commercial tractor-
semitrailer-semitrailer combination on the state highways or portions of state
highways as the Director designates.
      (5)   A.   In excess of 97 feet for drive-away saddlemount vehicle
transporter combinations and drive-away saddlemount with fullmount vehicle
transporter combinations when operated on any interstate, United States route
or state route, including reasonable access travel on all other roadways for a
distance not to exceed one road mile from any interstate, United States route
or state route, not to exceed three saddlemounted vehicles, but which may
include one fullmount;
         B.   In excess of 75 feet for drive-away saddlemount vehicle
transporter combinations and drive-away saddlemount with fullmount vehicle
transporter combinations when operated on any roadway not designated as an
interstate, United States route or state route, not to exceed three
saddlemounted vehicles, but which may include one fullmount.
      (6)   In excess of 65 feet for any other combination of vehicles coupled
together, with or without load, except as provided in division (c)(3) and (c)
(4), and in division (e) below.
      (7)   In excess of 45 feet for recreational vehicles.
      (8)   In excess of 50 feet for all other vehicles, except trailers and
semitrailers, with or without load.
   (d)   No such vehicle shall have a height in excess of 13.5 feet, with or
without load.
   (e)   An automobile transporter or boat transporter shall be allowed a
length of 65 feet, and a stinger-steered automobile transporter or stinger-
steered boat transporter shall be allowed a length of 75 feet, except that the
load thereon may extend no more than four feet beyond the rear of such vehicles
and may extend no more than three feet beyond the front of the vehicles, and
except further that the Director may prohibit the operation of a stinger-
steered automobile transporter, stinger-steered boat transporter, or a B-train
assembly on any state highway or portion of any state highway that the Director
designates.
   (f)   (1)   The widths prescribed in division (b) of this section shall not
include side mirrors, turn signal lamps, marker lamps, handholds for cab entry
and egress, flexible fender extensions, mud flaps, splash and spray suppressant
devices, and load-induced tire bulge.
      (2)   The widths prescribed in division (b)(5) of this section shall not
include automatic covering devices, tarp and tarp hardware, and tiedown
assemblies, provided these safety devices do not extend more than three inches
from either side of the vehicle.
      (3)   The lengths prescribed in divisions (c)(2) to (c)(7) shall not
include safety devices, bumpers attached to the front or rear of the bus or
combination, non-property carrying devices or components that do not extend
more than 24 inches beyond the rear of the vehicle and are needed for loading
or unloading, B-train assembly used between the first and second semitrailer of
a commercial tractor-semitrailer-semitrailer combination, energy conservation
devices as provided in any regulations adopted by the Secretary of the United
States Department of Transportation, or any noncargo-carrying refrigerator
equipment attached to the front of trailers and semitrailers. In special cases,
vehicles that dimensions exceed those prescribed by this section may operate in
accordance with rules adopted by the Director.
   (g)   (1)   This section does not apply to fire engines, fire trucks or
other vehicles or apparatus belonging to the municipality or to the volunteer
fire department thereof or used by that department in the discharge of its
functions. This section does not apply to vehicles and pole trailers used in
the transportation of wooden and metal poles, nor to the transportation of
pipes or well-drilling equipment, nor to farm machinery and equipment.
      (2)   The owner or operator of any vehicle, machinery or equipment not
specifically enumerated in this section but the dimensions of which exceed the
dimensions provided by this section, when operating the same on the highways
and streets of the municipality, shall comply with the rules of the Director
governing such movement. Any person adversely affected shall have the same
right of appeal as provided in R.C. Chapter 119.
      (3)   This section does not require the municipality or any railroad or
other private corporation to provide sufficient vertical clearance to permit
the operation of the vehicle, or to make any changes in or about existing
structures now crossing streets, roads and other public thoroughfares.
   (h)   As used in this section, “recreational vehicle” has the same meaning
as in R.C. § 4501.01.
(R.C. § 5577.05)
   (i)   No person shall violate any rule or regulation promulgated by the
Director of Transportation in accordance with R.C. § 5577.05.
(R.C. § 5577.06)
   (j)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second or subsequent offense, the person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 5577.99(C))
§ 440.03 WHEEL PROTECTORS.
   (a)   No person shall drive or operate, or cause to be driven or operated,
any commercial car, trailer or semitrailer, used for the transportation of
goods or property, the gross weight of which, with load, exceeds three tons,
upon the public highways, streets, bridges and culverts within the
municipality, unless the vehicle is equipped with suitable metal protectors or
substantial flexible flaps on the rearmost wheels of the vehicle or combination
of vehicles to prevent, as far as practicable, the wheels from throwing dirt,
water or other materials on the windshields of following vehicles. The
protectors or flaps shall have a ground clearance of not more than one-third of
the distance from the center of the rearmost axle to the center of the flaps
under any conditions of loading of the vehicle, and they shall be at least as
wide as the tires they are protecting. If the vehicle is so designed and
constructed that the requirements are accomplished by means of fenders, body
construction or other means of enclosure, then no such protectors or flaps are
required. Rear wheels not covered at the top by fenders, bodies or other parts
of the vehicle shall be covered at the top by protective means extending at
least to the centerline of the rearmost axle.
(R.C. § 5577.11)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $25.
(R.C. § 5577.99(E))
§ 440.04 VEHICLES TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVES.
   (a)   Any person operating any vehicle transporting explosives upon a
highway shall at all times comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   The vehicle shall be marked or placarded on each side and on the
rear with the word “EXPLOSIVES” in letters not less than eight inches high, or
there shall be displayed on the rear of the vehicle a red flag not less than 24
inches square marked with the word “DANGER” in white letters six inches high,
or shall be marked or placarded in accordance with § 177.823 of the United
States Department of Transportation regulations.
      (2)   The vehicle shall be equipped with not less than two fire
extinguishers, filled and ready for immediate use, and placed at convenient
points on the vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.29)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 440.05 TOWING REQUIREMENTS; EXCEPTION TO SIZE AND WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   (a)   (1)   When one vehicle is towing another vehicle, the drawbar or other
connection shall be of sufficient strength to pull all the weight towed
thereby, and the drawbar or other connection shall not exceed 15 feet from one
vehicle to the other, except the connection between any two vehicles
transporting poles, pipe, machinery or other objects of structural nature which
cannot readily be dismembered.
      (2)   When one vehicle is towing another and the connection consists only
of a chain, rope or cable, there shall be displayed upon the connection a white
flag or cloth not less than 12 inches square.
      (3)   In addition to the drawbar or other connection, each trailer and
each semitrailer which is not connected to a commercial tractor by means of a
fifth wheel shall be coupled with stay chains or cables to the vehicle by which
it is being drawn. These chains or cables shall be of sufficient size and
strength to prevent the towed vehicle’s parting from the drawing vehicle in
case the drawbar or other connection should break or become disengaged. In case
of a loaded pole trailer, the connecting pole to the drawing vehicle shall be
coupled to the drawing vehicle with stay chains or cables of sufficient size
and strength to prevent the towed vehicle’s parting from the drawing vehicle.
      (4)   Every trailer or semitrailer, except pole and cable trailers and
pole and cable dollies operated by a public utility as defined in R.C. §
5727.01, shall be equipped with a coupling device which shall be so designed
and constructed that the trailer will follow substantially in the path of the
vehicle drawing it, without whipping or swerving from side to side. Vehicles
used to transport agricultural produce or agricultural production materials
between a local place of storage and supply and the farm, when drawn or towed
on a street or highway at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less, and vehicles
designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage
and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or
highway for a distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 miles per
hour or less, shall have a drawbar or other connection, including the hitch
mounted on the towing vehicle, which shall be of sufficient strength to pull
all the weight towed thereby. Only one such vehicle used to transport
agricultural produce or agricultural production materials as provided in this
section may be towed or drawn at one time except as follows:
         A.   An agricultural tractor may tow or draw more than one such
vehicle;
         B.   A pickup truck or straight truck designed by the manufacturer to
carry a load of not less than one-half ton and not more than two tons may tow
or draw not more than two such vehicles that are being used to transport
agricultural produce from the farm to a local place of storage. No vehicle
being so towed by such a pickup truck or straight truck shall be considered to
be a motor vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.32)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
   (c)   Exception to size and weight restrictions.
      (1)   The size and weight provisions of this chapter and R.C. Chapter
5577 do not apply to any of the following:
         A.   A person who is engaged in the initial towing or removal of a
wrecked or disabled motor vehicle from the site of an emergency on a public
highway where the vehicle became wrecked or disabled to the nearest site where
the vehicle can be brought into conformance with the requirements of this
chapter and R.C. Chapter 5577, to the nearest storage facility, or to the
nearest qualified repair facility;
         B.   A person who is en route to the site of an emergency on a public
highway to remove a wrecked or disabled motor vehicle;
         C.   A person who is returning from delivering a wrecked or disabled
motor vehicle to a site, storage facility, or repair facility as specified in
division (c)(1)A. of this section.
      (2)   Any subsequent towing of a wrecked or disabled vehicle shall comply
with the size and weight provisions of this chapter and R.C. Chapter 5577.
      (3)   No court shall impose any penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99 or
the civil liability established in R.C. § 5577.12 upon a person who is
operating a vehicle in the manner described in division (c)(1) of this section.
(R.C. § 5577.15)
§ 440.06 LOADS DROPPING OR LEAKING; TRACKING MUD; REMOVAL REQUIRED.
   (a)   (1)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any highway unless the
vehicle is so constructed, loaded or covered as to prevent any of its load from
dropping, sifting, leaking or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand or
other substances may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water
or other substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining
the roadway.
      (2)   Except for a farm vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or
agricultural production materials or a rubbish vehicle in the process of
acquiring its load, no vehicle loaded with garbage, swill, cans, bottles, waste
paper, ashes, refuse, trash, rubbish, waste, wire, paper, cartons, boxes,
glass, solid waste or any other material of an unsanitary nature that is
susceptible to blowing or bouncing from a moving vehicle shall be driven or
moved on any highway unless the load is covered with a sufficient cover to
prevent the load or any part of the load from spilling onto the highway.
(R.C. § 4513.31)
   (b)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
   (c)   No person shall operate any vehicle so as to track mud on any public
way or place.
   (d)   It shall be the duty of the driver of a vehicle who unlawfully drops
or deposits mud or permits the load or any portion thereof to be dropped or
deposited upon any public way or place to immediately remove the same or cause
it to be removed.
§ 440.07 VEHICLES WITH SPIKES, LUGS AND CHAINS.
   (a)   No person shall drive over the improved highways of this municipality
a traction engine or tractor with tires or wheels equipped with ice picks,
spuds, spikes, chains or other projections of any kind extending beyond the
cleats, and no person shall tow or in any way pull another vehicle over the
improved highways of this municipality which towed or pulled vehicle has tires
or wheels equipped with ice picks, spuds, spikes, chains or other projections
of any kind. “Traction engine” or “tractor”, as used in this section, applies
to all self-propelling engines equipped with metal-tired wheels operated or
propelled by any form of engine, motor or mechanical power.
   (b)   This municipality shall not adopt, enforce or maintain any ordinance,
rule or regulation contrary to or inconsistent with division (a), nor shall
this municipality require any license tax upon or registration fee for any
traction engine, tractor or trailer, or any permit or license to operate.
Operators of traction engines or tractors shall have the same rights upon the
public streets and highways as the drivers of any other vehicles, unless some
other safe and convenient way is provided, and no public road open to traffic
shall be closed to traction engines or tractors.
(R.C. § 5589.08)
   (c)   For the purposes of this section, “studded tire” means any tire
designed for use on a vehicle and equipped with metal studs or studs of wear-
resisting material that project beyond the tread of the traction surface of the
tire.
   (d)   (1)   Except as provided in division (d)(2) of this section, no person
shall operate any motor vehicle other than a public safety vehicle or school
bus that is equipped with studded tires on any street or highway in this
Municipality, except during the period extending from the first day of November
of each year through the fifteenth day of April of the succeeding year.
      (2)   A person may operate a motor vehicle that is equipped with
retractable studded tires with the studs retracted at any time of the year, but
shall operate the motor vehicle with the studs extended only as provided in
division (d)(1) of this section.
   (e)   Division (d) of this section does not apply to the use of tire chains
when there is snow or ice on the streets or highways where the chains are being
used, or the immediate vicinity thereof.
(R.C. § 5589.081)
   (f)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 5589.99(B))
§ 440.08 OCCUPYING TRAVEL TRAILER OR MANUFACTURED HOME WHILE IN MOTION.
   (a)   No person shall occupy any travel trailer or manufactured or mobile
home while it is being used as a conveyance upon a street or highway.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.701)
§ 440.09 ROUTE AND LOAD INFORMATION.
   Drivers of vehicles described in this chapter are required, upon request by
a police officer, to give full and true information as to the route they are
following and the name of the consignor and consignee and place of delivery or
removal and the location of any consignment being hauled or goods being
removed, and upon a designation by such police officer of a route to be
followed, shall immediately adopt and pursue the route.
§ 440.10 SHIFTING LOAD; LOOSE LOADS.
   (a)   In addition to any other lawful requirements of load distribution, no
person shall operate any vehicle upon a street or highway unless the vehicle is
so laden as to prevent its contents from shifting or otherwise unbalancing the
vehicle to such an extent as to interfere with the safe operation of the same.
   (b)   No motor vehicle or trailer shall be driven unless the tailboard or
tailgate, tarpaulins, chains (except ground or contact chains), ropes, stakes,
poles and the like, or any part of the load, are securely fastened to prevent
dangling, flapping, swinging or falling from the side, end or top of the load
or body. All projecting cargo shall be properly guarded by a red flag or cloth
or a red light or lantern as required by R.C. § 4513.09, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
§ 440.11 CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINES.
   (a)   The operator of a chauffeured limousine shall accept passengers only
on the basis of prearranged contracts, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01, and shall
not cruise in search of patronage unless the limousine is in compliance with
any statute or ordinance governing the operation of taxicabs or other similar
vehicles for hire.
   (b)   The operator of a chauffeured limousine may provide transportation to
passengers who arrange for the transportation through an intermediary,
including a digital dispatching service. Notwithstanding any law to the
contrary, when providing transportation arranged through an intermediary, the
operator of a chauffeured limousine may establish the fare and method of fare
calculation, so long as the method of fare calculation is provided to the
passenger upon request.
   (c)   No person shall advertise or hold himself or herself out as doing
business as a limousine service or livery service or other similar designation
unless each vehicle used by the person to provide the service is registered in
accordance with R.C. § 4503.24 and is in compliance with R.C. § 4509.80.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.85)
§ 440.99 PENALTY.
Editor’s note:
   See §§
408.01 and
408.02 for general traffic code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
CHAPTER 442: DRIVERS OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES
Section
442.01   Definitions.
442.02   Use of actual gross weight in lieu of rating.
442.03   Licensing requirements.
442.04   Physical qualification to operate commercial motor vehicles.
442.05   Criminal offenses.
442.06   Application of 49 C.F.R. Part 383.
442.07   Information required of prospective drivers by employers; unauthorized
driving.
442.08   Authority of peace officers re drunk driving.
442.09   Permitting or driving while fatigued or ill prohibited.
442.99   Penalty.
Cross-references:
   Driving under the influence, generally, see §
434.01
   Load limits, see §
440.01
   Route and load information, see §
440.09
   Stopping after accidents, generally, see §§
436.11,
436.12
Statutory references:
   Arrest notice of drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
   Hours of service of truck drivers, see R.C. § 4921.30
   Warning devices when disabled on freeways, see R.C. § 4513.28
§ 442.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (a)   “Alcohol concentration.” The concentration of alcohol in a person’s
blood, breath or urine. When expressed as a percentage, it means grams of
alcohol per the following:
      (1)   One hundred milliliters of whole blood, blood serum or blood
plasma;
      (2)   Two hundred ten liters of breath;
      (3)   One hundred milliliters of urine.
   (b)   “Commercial driver’s license.” A license issued in accordance with
R.C. Chapter 4506 that authorizes an individual to drive a commercial motor
vehicle.
   (c)   “Commercial driver’s license information system.” The information
system established pursuant to the requirements of the “Commercial Motor
Vehicle Safety Act of 1986”, 100 Stat. 3207-171, 49 U.S.C. App. 2701.
   (d)   “Commercial motor vehicle.” Except when used in R.C. § 4506.25, any
motor vehicle designed or used to transport persons or property that meets any
of the following qualifications:
      (1)   Any combination of vehicles with a gross vehicle weight or combined
gross vehicle weight rating of 26,001 pounds or more, provided that the gross
vehicle weight or gross vehicle weight rating of the vehicle or vehicles being
towed is in excess of 10,000 pounds;
      (2)   Any single vehicle with a gross vehicle weight or gross vehicle
weight rating of 26,001 pounds or more;
      (3)   Any single vehicle or combination of vehicles that is not a class A
or class B vehicle, but is designed to transport 16 or more passengers
including the driver;
      (4)   Any school bus with a gross vehicle weight or gross vehicle weight
rating of less than 26,001 pounds that is designed to transport fewer than 16
passengers including the driver;
      (5)   Is transporting hazardous materials for which placarding is
required under 49 C.F.R. Part 172, Subpart F, as amended; or
      (6)   Any single vehicle or combination of vehicles that is designed to
be operated and to travel on a public street or highway and is considered by
the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration to be a commercial motor
vehicle, including but not limited to a motorized crane, a vehicle whose
function is to pump cement, a rig for drilling wells and a portable crane.
   (e)   “Controlled substance.” Includes all of the following:
      (1)   Any substance classified as a controlled substance under the
“Controlled Substances Act”, 80 Stat. 1242 (1970), 21 U.S.C. 802(6), as
amended;
      (2)   Any substance included in Schedules I through V of 21 C.F.R. Part
1308, as amended;
      (3)   Any drug of abuse.
   (f)   “Conviction.” An unvacated adjudication of guilt or a determination
that a person has violated or failed to comply with the law in a court of
original jurisdiction or an authorized administrative tribunal, an unvacated
forfeiture of bail or collateral deposited to secure the person’s appearance in
court, a plea of guilty or nolo contendere accepted by the court, the payment
of a fine or court cost, or violation of a condition of release without bail,
regardless of whether or not the penalty is rebated, suspended or probated.
   (g)   “Disqualification.” Any of the following:
      (1)   The suspension, revocation or cancellation of a person’s privileges
to operate a commercial motor vehicle;
      (2)   Any withdrawal of a person’s privileges to operate a commercial
motor vehicle as the result of a violation of state or local law relating to
motor vehicle traffic control other than parking, vehicle weight or vehicle
defect violations;
      (3)   A determination by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
that a person is not qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle under 49
C.F.R. 391.
   (h)   “Domiciled.” Having a true, fixed, principal, and permanent residence
to which an individual intends to return.
   (i)   “Downgrade.” Any of the following, as applicable:
      (1)   A change in the commercial driver’s license, or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit, holder’s self-certified status as
described in R.C. § 4506.10(A)(1);
      (2)   A change to a lesser class of vehicle;
      (3)   Removal of commercial driver’s license privileges from the
individual’s driver’s license.
   (j)   “Drive.” To drive, operate or be in physical control of a motor
vehicle.
   (k)   “Driver.” Any person who drives, operates or is in physical control of
a commercial motor vehicle or is required to have a commercial driver’s
license.
   (l)   “Driver’s license.” A license issued by the Bureau of Motor Vehicles
that authorizes an individual to drive.
   (m)   “Drug of abuse.” Any controlled substance, dangerous drug as defined
in R.C. § 4729.01, or over-the-counter medication that, when taken in
quantities exceeding the recommended dosage, can result in impairment of
judgment or reflexes.
   (n)   “Electronic device.” Includes a cellular telephone, a personal digital
assistant, a pager, a computer, and any other device used to input, write,
send, receive, or read text.
   (o)   “Eligible unit of local government.” A village, township or county
that has a population of not more than 3,000 persons according to the most
recent federal census.
   (p)   “Employer.” Any person, including the federal government, any state
and a political subdivision of any state, that owns or leases a commercial
motor vehicle or assigns a person to drive such a motor vehicle.
   (q)   “Endorsement.” An authorization on a person’s commercial driver’s
license that is required to permit the person to operate a specified type of
commercial motor vehicle.
   (r)   “Farm truck.” A truck controlled and operated by a farmer for use in
the transportation to or from a farm, for a distance of not more than 150
miles, of products of the farm, including livestock and its products, poultry
and its products, floricultural and horticultural products, and in the
transportation to the farm, from a distance of not more than 150 miles, of
supplies for the farm, including tile, fence and every other thing or commodity
used in agricultural, floricultural, horticultural, livestock and poultry
production, and livestock, poultry and other animals and things used for
breeding, feeding or other purposes connected with the operation of the farm,
when the truck is operated in accordance with this definition and is not used
in the operations of a motor carrier, as defined in R.C. § 4923.01.
   (s)   “Fatality.” The death of a person as the result of a motor vehicle
accident occurring not more than 365 days prior to the date of death.   
   (t)   “Felony.” Any offense under federal or state law that is punishable by
death or imprisonment for a term exceeding one year and includes any offense
specifically classified as a felony under the law of this state, regardless of
the penalty that may be imposed.
   (u)   “Foreign jurisdiction.” Any jurisdiction other than a state.
   (v)   “Gross vehicle weight rating.” The value specified by the manufacturer
as the maximum loaded weight of a single or a combination vehicle. The gross
vehicle weight rating of a combination vehicle is the gross vehicle weight
rating of the power unit plus the gross vehicle weight rating of each towed
unit.
   (w)   “Hazardous materials.” Any material that has been designated as
hazardous under 49 U.S.C. 5103 and is required to be placarded under 49 C.F.R.
Part 172, Subpart F or any quantity of a material listed as a select agent or
toxin in 42 C.F.R. Part 73, as amended.
   (x)   “Imminent hazard.” The existence of a condition that presents a
substantial likelihood that death, serious illness, severe personal injury or a
substantial endangerment to health, property or the environment may occur
before the reasonably foreseeable completion date of a formal proceeding begun
to lessen the risk of death, illness, injury or endangerment.
   (y)   “Medical variance.” One of the following received by a driver from the
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration that allows the driver to be issued
a medical certificate:
      (1)   An exemption letter permitting operation of a commercial motor
vehicle under 49 C.F.R. part 381, subpart C or 49 C.F.R. § 391.64;
      (2)   A skill performance evaluation certificate permitting operation of
a commercial motor vehicle pursuant to 49 C.F.R. § 391.49.
   (z)   “Mobile telephone.” A mobile communication device that falls under or
uses any commercial mobile radio service as defined in 47 C.F.R. part 20,
except that mobile telephone does not include two-way or citizens band radio
services.
   (aa)   “Motor vehicle.” A vehicle, machine, tractor, trailer or semitrailer
propelled or drawn by mechanical power used on highways, except that the term
does not include a vehicle, machine, tractor, trailer or semitrailer operated
exclusively on a rail.
   (bb)   “Out-of-service order.” A declaration by an authorized enforcement
officer of a federal, state, local, Canadian or Mexican jurisdiction declaring
that the driver, commercial motor vehicle or commercial motor carrier operation
is out of service as defined in 49 C.F.R. 390.5.
   (cc)   “Peace officer.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
   (dd)   “Portable tank.” A liquid or gaseous packaging designed primarily to
be loaded on or temporarily attached to a vehicle and equipped with skids,
mountings or accessories to facilitate handling of the tank by mechanical
means.
   (ee)   “Public safety vehicle.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01(E)
(1) and (E)(3).
   (ff)   “Recreational vehicle.” Includes every vehicle that is defined as a
recreational vehicle in R.C. § 4501.01 and is used exclusively for purposes
other than engaging in business for profit.
   (gg)   “Residence.” Any person’s residence determined in accordance with
standards prescribed in the rules adopted by the Registrar.
   (hh)   “School bus.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   (ii)   “Serious traffic violation.” Any of the following:
      (1)   A conviction arising from a single charge of operating a commercial
motor vehicle in violation of any provision of R.C. § 4506.03;
      (2)   A.   Except as provided in division (2)B. of this definition, a
violation while operating a commercial motor vehicle of a law of this state, or
any municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or any other
substantially equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of
another state, prohibiting either of the following:
            1.   Texting while driving;
            2.   Using a handheld mobile telephone.
         B.   It is not a serious traffic violation if the person was texting
or using a handheld mobile telephone to contact law enforcement or other
emergency services.
      (3)   A conviction arising from the operation of any motor vehicle that
involves any of the following:
         A.   A single charge of any speed in excess of the posted speed limit
by 15 miles per hour or more;
         B.   Violations of R.C. § 4511.20 or 4511.201 or any substantially
equivalent ordinance or resolution, or of any substantially equivalent law of
another state or political subdivision of another state;
         C.   Violation of a law of this state or an ordinance or resolution
relating to traffic control, other than a parking violation, or of any
substantially equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of
another state, that results in a fatal accident;
         D.   Violation of R.C. § 4506.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or of any substantially
equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of another state, that
involves the operation of a commercial motor vehicle without a valid commercial
driver’s license with the proper class or endorsement for the specific vehicle
group being operated or for the passengers or type of cargo being transported;
         E.   Violation of R.C. § 4506.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or of any substantially
equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of another state, that
involves the operation of a commercial motor vehicle without a valid commercial
driver’s license being in the person’s possession;
         F.   Violation of R.C. § 4511.33 or 4511.34, or any municipal
ordinance or county or township resolution substantially equivalent to either
of those sections, or any substantially equivalent law of another state or
political subdivision of another state;
         G.   Violation of any other law of this state, any law of another
state, or any ordinance or resolution of a political subdivision of this state
or another state that meets both of the following requirements:
            1.   It relates to traffic control, other than a parking violation;
            2.   It is determined to be a serious traffic violation by the
United States Secretary of Transportation and is designated by the director as
such by rule.
   (jj)   “State.” A state of the United States and includes the District of
Columbia.
   (kk)   “Tank vehicle.” Any commercial motor vehicle that is designed to
transport any liquid or gaseous materials within a tank or tanks that are
either permanently or temporarily attached to the vehicle or its chassis and
have an individual rated capacity of more than 119 gallons and an aggregate
rated capacity of 1,000 gallons or more. The term does not include a commercial
motor vehicle transporting an empty storage container tank that is not designed
for transportation, has a rated capacity of 1,000 gallons or more, and is
temporarily attached to a flatbed trailer.
   (ll)   “Tester.” A person or entity acting pursuant to a valid agreement
entered into pursuant to R.C. § 4506.09(B).
   (mm)   “Texting.” Manually entering alphanumeric text into, or reading text
from, an electronic device. “Texting” includes short message service (SMS), e-
mail, instant messaging, a command or request to access a world wide web page,
pressing more than a single button to initiate or terminate a voice
communication using a mobile telephone, or engaging in any other form of
electronic text retrieval or entry, for present or future communication.
“Texting” does not include the following:
      (1)   Using voice commands to initiate, receive, or terminate a voice
communication using a mobile telephone;
      (2)   Inputting, selecting, or reading information on a global
positioning system or navigation system;
      (3)   Pressing a single button to initiate or terminate a voice
communication using a mobile telephone; or
      (4)   Using, for a purpose that is not otherwise prohibited by law, a
device capable of performing multiple functions, such as a fleet management
system, a dispatching device, a mobile telephone, a citizens band radio, or a
music player.
   (nn)   “Texting while driving.” Texting while operating a commercial motor
vehicle, with the motor running, including while temporarily stationary because
of traffic, a traffic control device, or other momentary delays. Texting while
driving does not include operating a commercial motor vehicle with or without
the motor running when the driver has moved the vehicle to the side of, or off,
a highway and is stopped in a location where the vehicle can safely remain
stationary.
   (oo)   “United States.” The 50 states and the District of Columbia.
   (pp)   “Upgrade.” A change in the class of vehicles, endorsements, or self-
certified status as described in R.C. § 4506.10(A)(1) that expands the ability
of a current commercial driver’s license holder to operate commercial motor
vehicles under this chapter or R.C. Chapter 4506.
   (qq)   “Use of a handheld mobile telephone.” Means:
      (1)   Using at least one hand to hold a mobile telephone to conduct a
voice communication;
      (2)   Dialing or answering a mobile telephone by pressing more than a
single button; or
      (3)   Reaching for a mobile telephone in a manner that requires a driver
to maneuver so that the driver is no longer in a seated driving position, or
restrained by a seat belt that is installed in accordance with 49 C.F.R. §
393.93 and adjusted in accordance with the vehicle manufacturer’s instructions.
   (rr)   “Vehicle.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 4506.01)
§ 442.02 USE OF ACTUAL GROSS WEIGHT IN LIEU OF RATING.
   For purposes of this chapter, the actual gross weight of a vehicle or
combination of vehicles may be used in lieu of a gross vehicle weight rating to
determine whether a vehicle or combination of vehicles qualifies as a
commercial motor vehicle if the gross vehicle weight rating specified by the
manufacturer for the vehicle of combination of vehicles is not determinable, or
if the manufacturer of the vehicle has not specified a gross vehicle weight
rating.
(R.C. § 4506.011)
§ 442.03 LICENSING REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having in the person’s
possession or otherwise under the person’s control more than one valid driver’s
license issued by this state, any other state or by a foreign jurisdiction;
      (2)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle on a highway in this municipality
in violation of an out-of-service order while the person’s driving privilege is
suspended, revoked or cancelled, or while the person is subject to
disqualification;
      (3)   Drive a motor vehicle on a highway in the municipality under the
authority of a commercial driver’s license issued by another state or a foreign
jurisdiction, after having been a resident of this state for 30 days or longer;
      (4)   Knowingly give false information in any application or
certification required by R.C. § 4506.07.
   (b)   The municipality shall give every conviction occurring out of this
state and notice of which was received by the State Department of Public Safety
after December 31, 1989, full faith and credit and treat it for sanctioning
purposes under this chapter as though the conviction had occurred in this
state.
(R.C. § 4506.04(A), (B))
   (c)   No person shall drive any commercial motor vehicle for which an
endorsement is required under R.C. § 4506.12 unless the proper endorsement
appears on the person’s commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit. No person shall drive a commercial motor
vehicle in violation of a restriction established under R.C. § 4506.12 that
appears on the person’s commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit.
(R.C. § 4506.12(I))
   (d)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a)(1), (2) or (3) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (a)(4) of this section is guilty of
falsification, a misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition, the provisions
of R.C. § 4507.19 apply.
(R.C. § 4506.04(C))
      (3)   A.   Whoever violates division (c) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         B.   The offenses established under division (c) of this section are
strict liability offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of
these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be construed to imply
that any other offense for which there is no specified degree of culpability,
whether in this section or another section of this code or the Ohio Revised
Code, is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. § 4506.12(J))
§ 442.04 PHYSICAL QUALIFICATION TO OPERATE COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (a)   No person who holds a valid commercial driver’s license shall drive a
commercial motor vehicle unless the person is physically qualified to do so.
      (1)   Any person applying for a commercial driver’s license or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit, the renewal or upgrade of a
commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit, or the transfer of a commercial driver’s license from out
of state shall self-certify to the Registrar for purposes of 49 C.F.R. § 383.71
one of the following in regard to the applicant’s operation of a commercial
motor vehicle, as applicable:
         A.   1.   If the applicant operates or expects to operate a commercial
motor vehicle in interstate or foreign commerce and is subject to and meets the
requirements under 49 C.F.R. part 391, the applicant shall self-certify that
the applicant is non-excepted interstate and shall provide the Registrar with
the original or a copy of a medical examiner’s certificate and each
subsequently issued medical examiner’s certificate prepared by a qualified
medical examiner to maintain a medically certified status on the applicant’s
commercial driver licensing system driver record;
            2.   If the applicant operates or expects to operate a commercial
motor vehicle in interstate commerce, but engages in transportation or
operations excepted under 49 C.F.R. §§ 390.3(f), 391.2, 391.68, or 398.3 from
all or parts of the qualification requirements of 49 C.F.R. part 391, the
applicant shall self-certify that the applicant is excepted interstate and is
not required to obtain a medical examiner’s certificate;
         B.   1.   If the applicant operates only in intrastate commerce and is
subject to state driver qualification requirements, the applicant shall self-
certify that the applicant is non-excepted intrastate;
            2.   If the applicant operates only in intrastate commerce and is
excepted from all or parts of the state driver qualification requirements, the
applicant shall self-certify that the applicant is excepted intrastate.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the expiration date on a person’s commercial
driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit,
every commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit holder shall provide the Registrar with the certification
required by this section on or after January 30, 2012, but prior to January 30,
2014.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4506.10(A), (E))
§ 442.05 CRIMINAL OFFENSES.
   (a)   No person who holds a commercial driver’s license or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit or who operates a motor vehicle
for which a commercial driver’s license or permit is required shall do any of
the following:
      (1)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having a measurable or
detectable amount of alcohol or of a controlled substance in the person’s
blood, breath or urine;
      (2)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of 0.04% or more by whole blood or breath;
      (3)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of 0.048% or more by blood serum or blood plasma;
      (4)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of 0.056% or more by urine;
      (5)   Drive a motor vehicle while under the influence of a controlled
substance;
      (6)   Drive a motor vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a municipal
O.V.I. ordinance as defined in R.C. § 4511.181;
      (7)   Use a vehicle in the commission of a felony;
      (8)   Refuse to submit to a test under R.C. § 4506.17 or 4511.191, or any
substantially similar municipal ordinance;
      (9)   Operate a commercial motor vehicle while the person’s commercial
driver’s license or permit or other commercial driving privileges are revoked,
suspended, cancelled, or disqualified;
      (10)   Cause a fatality through the negligent operation of a commercial
motor vehicle, including but not limited to the offenses of aggravated
vehicular homicide, vehicular homicide and vehicular manslaughter;
      (11)   Fail to stop after an accident in violation of R.C. § 4549.02 to
4549.03, or any substantially similar municipal ordinance;
      (12)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle in violation of any provision of
R.C. § 4511.61 to 4511.63 or any federal or local law or ordinance pertaining
to railroad-highway grade crossings;
      (13)   Use a motor vehicle in the commission of a felony involving the
manufacture, distribution, or dispensing of a controlled substance as defined
in R.C. § 3719.01 or the possession with intent to manufacture, distribute, or
dispense a controlled substance.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4506.15)
Statutory references:
   Alcohol or controlled substance testing, disqualification of drivers, see
R.C. § 4506.17
   Disqualification of drivers for violations, see R.C. § 4506.16
§ 442.06 APPLICATION OF 49 C.F.R. PART 383.
   (a)   The provisions of 49 C.F.R. Part 383, Subpart C (Notification
Requirements and Employer Responsibilities), as amended, shall apply to all
commercial drivers or persons who apply for employment as commercial drivers.
No person shall fail to make a report to the person’s employer as required by
this section.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4506.19)
§ 442.07 INFORMATION REQUIRED OF PROSPECTIVE DRIVERS BY EMPLOYERS; UNAUTHORIZED
DRIVING.
   (a)   Each employer shall require every applicant for employment as a driver
of a commercial vehicle to provide the applicant’s employment history for the
ten years preceding the date the employment application is submitted to the
prospective employer. The following information shall be submitted:
      (1)   A list of the names and addresses of the applicant’s previous
employers for which the applicant was the operator of a commercial motor
vehicle;
      (2)   The dates the applicant was employed by these employers;
      (3)   The reason for leaving each of these employers.
   (b)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize any driver employed by
the employer to drive a commercial motor vehicle during any period in which any
of the following apply:
      (1)   The driver’s commercial driver’s license is suspended, revoked or
cancelled by any state or a foreign jurisdiction;
      (2)   The driver has lost the privilege to drive, or currently is
disqualified from driving, a commercial motor vehicle in any state or foreign
jurisdiction;
      (3)   The driver, the commercial motor vehicle the driver is driving, or
the motor carrier operation is subject to an out-of-service order in any state
or a foreign jurisdiction;
      (4)   The driver has more than one driver’s license.
   (c)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a
commercial motor vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4506.15.
   (d)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a
commercial motor vehicle if the driver does not hold a valid, current
commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit bearing the proper class or endorsements for the vehicle. No
employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a commercial
motor vehicle in violation of the restrictions on the driver’s commercial
driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit.
   (e)   Whoever violates division (a), (b) or (d) of this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (f)   Whoever violates division (c) of this section is guilty of a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 4506.20)
§ 442.08 AUTHORITY OF PEACE OFFICERS RE DRUNK DRIVING.
   (a)   Within the jurisdictional limits of the appointing authority, any
peace officer shall stop and detain any person found violating R.C. § 4506.15,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, without obtaining a
warrant. When there is reasonable ground to believe that a violation of R.C. §
4506.15, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, has been
committed and a test or tests of the person’s whole blood, blood plasma or
blood serum, breath or urine is necessary, the peace officer shall take the
person to an appropriate place for testing. If a person refuses to submit to a
test after being warned as provided in R.C. § 4506.17(C), or submits to a test
that discloses the presence of a controlled substance or an alcohol
concentration of 0.04% or more by whole blood or breath, an alcohol
concentration of 0.048% or more by blood serum or blood plasma, or an alcohol
concentration of 0.056% or more by urine, the peace officer shall require that
the person immediately surrender the person’s commercial driver’s license to
the peace officer.
   (b)   As used in this section, “jurisdictional limits” means the limits
within which a peace officer may arrest and detain a person without a warrant
under R.C. § 2935.03, except that the Superintendent and the troopers of the
State Highway Patrol may stop and detain, without warrant, any person who, in
the presence of the Superintendent or any trooper, is engaged in a violation of
any of the provisions of R.C. Chapter 4506.
(R.C. § 4506.23)
§ 442.09 PERMITTING OR DRIVING WHILE FATIGUED OR ILL PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle, as defined in R.C. §
4506.01, or a commercial car or commercial tractor, as defined in R.C. §
4501.01, while the person’s ability or alertness is so impaired by fatigue,
illness or other causes that it is unsafe for the person to drive the vehicle.
No driver shall use any drug which would adversely affect the driver’s ability
or alertness.
   (b)   No owner, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01, of a commercial motor vehicle,
commercial car or commercial tractor, or a person employing or otherwise
directing the driver of the vehicle, shall require or knowingly permit a driver
in any such condition described in division (a) of this section to drive the
vehicle upon any street or highway.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.79, 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764 or 4511.77, or a
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of those sections,
whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.79)
§ 442.99 PENALTY.
Editor’s note:
   See §§
408.01 and
408.02 for general traffic code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
CHAPTER 444: BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES GENERALLY
Section
444.01   Code application to bicycles.
444.02   Riding upon seats; carrying packages; motorcycle handle bars; helmets
and glasses.
444.03   Attaching bicycles, motorcycles to other vehicles.
444.04   Riding on right side of roadway; riding abreast.
444.05   Lights, signal devices, brakes on bicycles.
444.06   Operation of motorized bicycles.
444.07   Safe riding regulations for bicycles.
444.08   Parking; locks.
444.09   Parent’s responsibility.
444.10   Suspension of riding privileges; impounding of bicycles.
444.11   Operation of motorized bicycles upon property of others.
444.12   Electric bicycles.
444.99   Penalty.
Cross-references:
   Bicycle defined, see §
402.01
   Bicycles prohibited on freeways, see §
412.05
   Motorcycle brakes, see §
438.19
   Motorcycle defined, see §
402.01
   Motorcycle headlight, see §
438.03
   Motorcycle operator’s license required, see §
436.01
   Off-highway motorcycles, see
Ch. 446
   Operation of vehicles on bicycle paths, see §
432.41
Statutory reference:
   Bicycle regulations to be consistent with state law, see R.C. § 4511.07(A)
(8)
§ 444.01 CODE APPLICATION TO BICYCLES.
   (a)   The provisions of this traffic code that are applicable to bicycles
and electric bicycles apply whenever a bicycle or electric bicycle is operated
upon any highway or upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (b)   Except as provided in division (d) of this section, a bicycle operator
or electric bicycle operator who violates any provisions of this traffic code
described in division (a) of this section that is applicable to bicycles or
electric bicycles may be issued a ticket, citation or summons by a law
enforcement officer for the violation in the same manner as the operator of a
motor vehicle would be cited for the same violation. A person who commits any
such violation while operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall not have any
points assessed against the person’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit or probationary license under R.C. §
4510.036.
   (c)   Except as provided in division (d) of this section, in the case of a
violation of any provision of this traffic code described in division (a) of
this section by a bicycle operator, electric bicycle operator, or motor vehicle
operator when the trier of fact finds that the violation by the motor vehicle
operator endangered the lives of bicycle riders or electric bicycle riders at
the time of the violation, the court, notwithstanding any provision of the Ohio
Revised Code to the contrary, may require the bicycle operator, electric
bicycle operator, or motor vehicle operator to take and successfully complete a
bicycling skills course approved by the court in addition to or in lieu of any
penalty otherwise prescribed by this traffic code or the Ohio Revised Code for
that violation.
   (d)   Divisions (b) and (c) of this section do not apply to violations of
R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 4511.52)
   (e)   Every person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of
official traffic-control devices and signals applicable to vehicles, unless
otherwise directed by a police officer.
§ 444.02 RIDING UPON SEATS; CARRYING PACKAGES; MOTORCYCLE HANDLE BARS; HELMETS
AND GLASSES.
   (a)   For purposes of this section, “snowmobile” has the same meaning as
given that term in R.C. § 4519.01.
   (b)   (1)   No person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall ride
other than upon or astride the permanent and regular seat attached thereto or
carry any other person upon the bicycle or electric bicycle other than upon a
firmly attached and regular seat thereon, and no person shall ride upon a
bicycle or electric bicycle other than upon such a firmly attached and regular
seat.
      (2)   No person operating a motorcycle shall ride other than upon or
astride the permanent and regular seat or saddle attached thereto, or carry any
other person upon the motorcycle other than upon a firmly attached and regular
seat or saddle thereon, and no person shall ride upon a motorcycle other than
upon such a firmly attached and regular seat or saddle.
      (3)   No person shall ride upon a motorcycle that is equipped with a
saddle other than while sitting astride the saddle, facing forward, with one
leg on each side of the motorcycle.
      (4)   No person shall ride upon a motorcycle that is equipped with a seat
other than while sitting upon the seat.
      (5)   No person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall carry any
package, bundle or article that prevents the driver from keeping at least one
hand upon the handlebars.
      (6)   No bicycle or electric bicycle or motorcycle shall be used to carry
more persons at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
No motorcycle shall be operated on a highway when the handlebars rise higher
than the shoulders of the operator when the operator is seated in the
operator’s seat or saddle.
   (c)   (1)   Except as provided in division (c)(3) of this section, no person
shall operate or be a passenger on a snowmobile or motorcycle without using
safety glasses or other protective eye device. Except as provided in division
(c)(3) of this section, no person who is under the age of 18 years, or who
holds a motorcycle operator’s endorsement or license bearing a “novice”
designation that is currently in effect as provided in R.C. § 4507.13, shall
operate a motorcycle on a highway, or be a passenger on a motorcycle, unless
wearing a protective helmet on the person’s head, and no other person shall be
a passenger on a motorcycle operated by such a person unless similarly wearing
a protective helmet. The helmet, safety glasses, or other protective eye device
shall conform with rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety. The
provisions of this paragraph or a violation thereof shall not be used in the
trial of any civil action.
      (2)   A.   Except as provided in division (c)(3) of this section, no
person shall operate a motorcycle with a valid temporary instruction permit and
temporary instruction permit identification card issued by the Registrar of
Motor Vehicles pursuant to R.C. § 4507.05 unless the person, at the time of
such operation, is wearing on the person’s head a protective helmet that
conforms with rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety.
         B.   No person shall operate a motorcycle with a valid temporary
instruction permit and temporary instruction permit identification card issued
by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles pursuant to R.C. § 4507.05 in any of the
following circumstances:
            1.   At any time when lighted lights are required by R.C. § 4513.03
(A)(1);
            2.   While carrying a passenger;
            3.   On any limited access highway or heavily congested roadway.
      (3)   Divisions (c)(1) and (c)(2)A. of this section do not apply to a
person who operates or is a passenger in an autocycle or cab-enclosed
motorcycle when the occupant compartment top is in place enclosing the
occupants.
   (d)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting the carrying
of a child in a seat or trailer that is designed for carrying children and is
firmly attached to the bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (e)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (b) or (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates division (b) or (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates division (b) or (c)(1) or
(c)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.53)
§ 444.03 ATTACHING BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES TO OTHER VEHICLES.
   (a)   (1)   No person riding upon any bicycle, electric bicycle, coaster,
roller skates, skateboard, sled or toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself
or herself to any vehicle upon a roadway.
      (2)   No operator shall knowingly permit any person riding upon any
bicycle, electric bicycle, coaster, roller skates, skateboard, sled or toy
vehicle to attach the same or himself or herself to any vehicle while it is
moving upon a roadway.
      (3)   This section does not apply to towing a disabled vehicle.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.54)
§ 444.04 RIDING ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY; RIDING ABREAST.
   (a)   Every person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle upon a roadway
shall ride as near to the right side of the roadway as practicable obeying all
traffic rules applicable to vehicles and exercising due care when passing a
standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (b)   Persons riding bicycles, electric bicycles, or motorcycles upon a
roadway shall ride not more than two abreast in a single lane, except on paths
or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, electric
bicycles, or motorcycles.
   (c)   This section does not require a person operating a bicycle or electric
bicycle to ride at the edge of the roadway when it is unreasonable or unsafe to
do so. Conditions that may require riding away from the edge of the roadway
include when necessary to avoid fixed or moving objects, parked or moving
vehicles, surface hazards, or if it otherwise is unsafe or impracticable to do
so, including if the lane is too narrow for the bicycle or electric bicycle and
an overtaking vehicle to travel safely side by side within the lane.
   (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (e)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
408.02(b).
(R.C. § 4511.55)
§ 444.05 LIGHTS, SIGNAL DEVICES, BRAKES ON BICYCLES.
   (a)   Every bicycle or electric bicycle when in use at the times specified
in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance shall be
equipped with the following:
      (1)   A lamp mounted on the front of either the bicycle or electric
bicycle or the operator that shall emit a white light visible from a distance
of at least 500 feet to the front and 300 feet to the sides. A generator-
powered lamp that emits light only when the bicycle or electric bicycle is
moving may be used to meet this requirement.
      (2)   A red reflector on the rear that shall be visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet to the rear when directly in front of
lawful lower beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle.
      (3)   A lamp emitting either flashing or steady red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear shall be used in addition to the red
reflector. If the red lamp performs as a reflector in that it is visible as
specified in division (a)(2) of this section, the red lamp may serve as the
reflector and a separate reflector is not required.
   (b)   Additional lamps and reflectors may be used in addition to those
required under division (a) of this section, except that red lamps and red
reflectors shall not be used on the front of the bicycle or electric bicycle
and white lamps and white reflectors shall not be used on the rear of the
bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (c)   A bicycle or electric bicycle may be equipped with a device capable of
giving an audible signal, except that a bicycle or electric bicycle shall not
be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a bicycle or electric bicycle
any siren or whistle.
   (d)   Every bicycle or electric bicycle shall be equipped with an adequate
brake when used on a street or highway.
   (e)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.56)
§ 444.06 OPERATION OF MOTORIZED BICYCLES.
   (a)   No person shall operate a motorized bicycle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking, unless all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The person is 14 or 15 years of age and holds a valid probationary
motorized bicycle license issued after the person has passed the test provided
for in this section, or the person is 16 years of age or older and holds either
a valid commercial driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4506 or a
driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid motorized bicycle
license issued after the person has passed the test provided for in this
section, except that if a person is 16 years of age, has a valid probationary
motorized bicycle license and desires a motorized bicycle license, the person
is not required to comply with the testing requirements provided for in this
section.
      (2)   The motorized bicycle is equipped in accordance with the rules
adopted under division (b) of this section and is in proper working order.
      (3)   The person, if under 18 years of age, is wearing a protective
helmet on the person’s head with the chin strap properly fastened and the
motorized bicycle is equipped with a rearview mirror.
      (4)   The person operates the motorized bicycle when practicable within
three feet of the right edge of the roadway obeying all traffic rules
applicable to vehicles.
   (b)   The Director of Public Safety, subject to R.C. Chapter 119, shall
adopt and promulgate rules concerning protective helmets, the equipment of
motorized bicycles, and the testing and qualifications of persons who do not
hold a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license. The test shall be as near
as practicable to the examination required for a motorcycle operator’s
endorsement under R.C. § 4507.11.
The test shall also require the operator to give an actual demonstration of the
operator’s ability to operate and control a motorized bicycle by driving one
under the supervision of an examining officer.
   (c)   Every motorized bicycle license expires on the birthday of the
applicant in the fourth or eighth year after the date it is issued, based on
the period of renewal requested by the applicant. No motorized bicycle license
shall be issued for a period longer than eight years. A person who is 65 years
of age or older may only apply for a motorized bicycle license that expires on
the birthday of the applicant in the fourth year after the date it is issued.
   (d)   No person operating a motorized bicycle shall carry another person
upon the motorized bicycle.
   (e)   The protective helmet and rearview mirror required by division (a)(3)
of this section shall, on and after January 1, 1985, conform with rules adopted
by the Director under division (b) of this section.
   (f)   Whoever violates division (a), (d) or (e) of this section is guilty of
a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.521)
Statutory reference:
   Suspension of probationary motorized bicycle license by the state, see R.C.
§ 4510.34
§ 444.07 SAFE RIDING REGULATIONS FOR BICYCLES.
   (a)   Whenever a person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk or street, the
person shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall give an audible
signal before attempting to overtake and pass a pedestrian or another bicycle.
This audible signal must be given only by bell or other warning device capable
of giving an audible signal and shall be given at such a distance and in such a
manner as not to startle the person being overtaken and passed.
   (b)   No person shall ride a bicycle across or through any intersection
involving a through street. These intersections are to be crossed by walking
the bicycle across or through the intersection.
   (c)   Whenever a person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, the person,
before overtaking and passing a blind person carrying a white or metallic cane,
shall dismount and overtake or pass on foot.
   (d)   When a bicycle is operated on the street, the operator shall give hand
signals before turning, changing lanes or stopping. The signals shall conform
with R.C. § 4511.40, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (e)   Every rider of a bicycle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding
with any pedestrian or any vehicle upon any roadway, sidewalk or bicycle path,
or endangering the life, limb or property of any person while in the lawful use
of the streets, sidewalks or any other private or public property.
   (f)   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is
reasonable and proper under the conditions then existing.
   (g)   The operator of a bicycle emerging from or turning into an alley,
driveway or building shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area
extending across any alley, driveway or building, yield the right-of-way to all
pedestrians approaching on the sidewalk area. Upon entering the street, the
operator shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the
street.
   (h)   No person shall engage in trick riding or operate a bicycle without
both hands upon the handle grips except when necessary to give the hand signals
required herein.
§ 444.08 PARKING; LOCKS.
   (a)   No person shall park a bicycle upon a sidewalk in such a manner as to
interfere with pedestrian traffic or damage the property of another.
   (b)   No person shall park a bicycle upon a roadway in such a manner as to
interfere with vehicular traffic.
   (c)   No bicycle shall remain unlocked when parked upon any public way or
place.
§ 444.09 PARENT’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   No parent of any child or guardian of any ward shall authorize or knowingly
permit any such child or ward to violate any of the provisions of this chapter.
§ 444.10 SUSPENSION OF RIDING PRIVILEGES; IMPOUNDING OF BICYCLES.
   In addition to the penalties provided in §§
408.01 and
408.02, a court may prohibit any person who violates or fails to comply with
any of the provisions of this chapter relating to bicycles from riding a
bicycle for a period not to exceed three months. In addition, any person
violating or failing to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter
relating to bicycles may be punished by having his or her bicycle impounded for
a period not exceeding 30 days.
§ 444.11 OPERATION OF MOTORIZED BICYCLES UPON PROPERTY OF OTHERS.
   No person shall operate a motorized bicycle upon public or private property
not his or her own, other than public or private property used by the public
for purposes of vehicular travel or parking, without permission of the owner of
such public or private property.
(Ord. 5-78, passed 3-13-1978)
§ 444.12 ELECTRIC BICYCLES.
   (a)   (1)   On and after January 1, 2020, manufacturers and distributors of
electric bicycles shall permanently affix a label, in a prominent location, to
each electric bicycle. The label shall specify whether the electric bicycle is
a class 1, class 2, or class 3 electric bicycle, the top assisted speed that
the electric bicycle is capable of reaching, and the motor wattage of the
electric bicycle.
      (2)   No person shall modify an electric bicycle in a manner that changes
the top assisted speed that the electric bicycle is capable of reaching unless
the person also modifies the label required under division (a)(1) of this
section to reflect the modification.
   (b)   (1)   The manufacturer of an electric bicycle shall ensure that the
electric bicycle complies with the equipment and manufacturing requirements for
bicycles established by the consumer product safety commission under 16 C.F.R.
§§ 1512 et seq.
      (2)   The manufacturer shall manufacture all class 1 electric bicycles
and class 3 electric bicycles so that when the rider ceases pedaling the
electric motor ceases to provide assistance. The manufacturer shall manufacture
all class 2 electric bicycles so that when the rider applies the brakes or
releases or activates a switch or similar mechanism the electric motor ceases
to provide assistance.
      (3)   All class 3 electric bicycles shall be equipped with a speedometer
that displays the speed of the electric bicycle in miles per hour.
   (c)   (1)   The operation of a class 1 electric bicycle and a class 2
electric bicycle is permitted on a path set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles or on a shared-use path, unless the county, township, municipal
corporation, other local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60
with control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule prohibits the use
of a class 1 electric bicycle or class 2 electric bicycle on such a path.
      (2)   No person shall operate a class 3 electric bicycle on a path set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles or a shared-use path unless that path
is within or adjacent to a highway or the county, township, municipal
corporation, or local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60 with
control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule authorizes the use of a
class 3 electric bicycle on such a path.
      (3)   No person shall operate a class 1 electric bicycle, a class 2
electric bicycle, or a class 3 electric bicycle on a path that is intended to
be used primarily for mountain biking, hiking, equestrian use, or other similar
uses, or any other single track or natural surface trail that has historically
been reserved for non-motorized use, unless the county, township, municipal
corporation, other local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60
with control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule authorizes the use
of a class 1 electric bicycle, a class 2 electric bicycle, or a class 3
electric bicycle on such a path.
      (4)   Divisions (c)(2) and (c)(3) of this section do not apply to a law
enforcement officer, or other person sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic
laws of the state, using an electric bicycle while in the performance of the
officer's duties.
   (d)   (1)   No person under 16 years of age shall operate a class 3 electric
bicycle; however, a person under 16 years of age may ride as a passenger on a
class 3 electric bicycle that is designed to accommodate passengers.
      (2)   No person shall operate or be a passenger on a class 3 electric
bicycle unless the person is wearing a protective helmet that meets the
standards established by the Consumer Product Safety Commission or the American
Society for Testing and Materials.
   (e)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever operates
an electric bicycle in a manner that is prohibited under division (c) of this
section and whoever violates division (d) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   The offenses established under division (e)(1) of this section are
strict liability offenses and strict liability is a culpable mental state for
purposes of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of these offenses as strict
liability offenses shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
(R.C. § 4511.522)
§ 444.99 PENALTY.
Editor’s note:
   See §§
408.01 and
408.02 for general traffic code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
CHAPTER 446: SNOWMOBILES, OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLES AND ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLES
Section
446.01   Definitions.
446.02   Equipment.
446.03   Code application; prohibited operation.
446.04   Permitted operation.
446.05   Licensing requirements of operator.
446.06   Accident reports.
446.07   Local control within police power.
446.08   Registration of vehicles.
446.09   Operation of off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle without
certificate of title; failure to surrender.
446.99   Penalty.
Cross-reference:
   Bicycles and motorcycles generally, see
Ch. 444
   Operation on bicycle paths, see §
432.41
   Required usage of helmets and safety glasses, see §
444.02
   Street or highway defined, see §
402.01
Statutory reference:
   Power of court to impound registration certificates for certain violations,
see R.C. § 4519.47
§ 446.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (a)   “All-purpose vehicle.” Any self-propelled vehicle designed primarily
for cross-country travel on land and water, or on more than one type of
terrain, and steered by wheels or caterpillar treads, or any combination
thereof, including vehicles that operate on a cushion of air, vehicles commonly
known as all-terrain vehicles, all season vehicles, mini-bikes and trail bikes.
The term does not include a utility vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4501.01 or any
vehicle principally used in playing golf, any motor vehicle or aircraft
required to be registered under R.C. Chapter 4503 or R.C. Chapter 4561, and any
vehicle excepted from definition as a motor vehicle by R.C. § 4501.01(B).
   (b)   “Dealer.” Any person or firm engaged in the business of manufacturing
or selling snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles or all-purpose vehicles at
wholesale or retail, or who rents, leases or otherwise furnishes snowmobiles,
off-highway motorcycles or all-purpose vehicles for hire.
   (c)   “Electronic” and “electronic record.” Have the same meanings as in
R.C. § 4501.01.
   (d)   “Electronic dealer.” A dealer whom the Registrar of Motor Vehicles
designates under R.C. § 4519.511.
   (e)   “Interstate highway.” Any part of the interstate system of highways as
defined in subsection (e), 90 Stat. 431 (1976), 23 U.S.C. 103, as amended.
   (f)   “Limited-access highway” or “freeway.” Have the same meanings as in
R.C. § 5511.02.
   (g)   “Mini-truck.” A vehicle that has four wheels, is propelled by an
electric motor with a rated power of 7,500 watts or less or an internal
combustion engine with a piston displacement capacity of 660 cubic centimeters
or less, has a total dry weight of 900 to 2,200 pounds, contains an enclosed
cabin and a seat for the vehicle operator, resembles a pickup truck or van with
a cargo area or bed located at the rear of the vehicle, and was not originally
manufactured to meet federal motor vehicle safety standards.
   (h)   “Off-highway motorcycle.” Every motorcycle, as defined in R.C. §
4511.01, that is designed to be operated primarily on lands other than a street
or highway.
   (i)   “Operator.” Any person who operates or is in actual physical control
of a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle.
   (j)   “Owner.” Any person or firm, other than a lienholder or dealer, having
title to a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle, or other
right to the possession thereof.
   (k)   “Proof of financial responsibility.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
4509.01.
   (l)   “Snowmobile.” Any self-propelled vehicle designed primarily for use on
snow or ice, and steered by skis, runners or caterpillar treads.
   (m)   “State highway” and “state route.” Have the same meanings as in R.C. §
4511.01.
   (n)   “Street” or “highway.” Have the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 4519.01)
§ 446.02 EQUIPMENT.
   (a)   In addition to any rules or regulations promulgated by the Ohio
Director of Public Safety pursuant to R.C. § 4519.20 and R.C. Chapter 119,
equipment of snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles and all-purpose vehicles
shall include but not necessarily be limited to requirements for the following
items of equipment:
      (1)   At least one headlight having a minimum candlepower of sufficient
intensity to reveal persons and objects at a distance of at least 100 feet
ahead under normal atmospheric conditions during hours of darkness;
      (2)   At least one red tail light having a minimum candlepower of
sufficient intensity to be plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to the
rear under normal atmospheric conditions during hours of darkness;
      (3)   Every snowmobile, while traveling on packed snow, shall be capable
of carrying a driver who weighs 175 pounds or more, and, while carrying the
driver, be capable of stopping in no more than 40 feet from an initial steady
speed of 20 miles per hour, or locking its traction belt; and
      (4)   A muffler system capable of precluding the emission of excessive
smoke or exhaust fumes, and of limiting the engine noise of vehicles. On
snowmobiles manufactured after January 1, 1973, the requirement shall include
sound dampening equipment such that noise does not exceed 82 decibels on the
“A” scale at 50 feet as measured according to SAE J192 (September 1970).
   (b)   No person shall operate any snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle in violation of this section, except that equipment specified
in division (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section shall not be required on
snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles or all-purpose vehicles operated during
the daylight hours.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (b) of this section shall be fined not more than $50. If the offender
within the preceding year previously has committed a violation of division (b)
of this section or of R.C. § 4519.20(B), whoever violates division (b) of this
section shall be fined not less than $15 nor more than $100, imprisoned not
more than three days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.20)
§ 446.03 CODE APPLICATION; PROHIBITED OPERATION.
   (a)   The applicable provisions of this traffic code apply to the operation
of snowmobiles, off- highway motorcycles, and all-purpose vehicles, except that
no person shall operate a snowmobile, off- highway motorcycle, or all-purpose
vehicle as follows:
      (1)   On any state highway, including a limited access highway or freeway
or the right- of-way thereof, except for emergency travel during such time and
in such manner as the Ohio Director of Public Safety designates or except as
authorized by R.C. § 4519.41(F);
      (2)   On any private property, or in any nursery or planting area,
without the permission of the owner or other person having the right to
possession of the property;
      (3)   On any land or waters controlled by the state, except at those
locations where a sign has been posted permitting the operation;
      (4)   On the tracks or right-of-way of any operating railroad;
      (5)   While transporting any firearm, bow or other implement for hunting
that is not unloaded and securely encased;
      (6)   For the purpose of chasing, pursuing, capturing or killing any
animal or wild fowl; or
      (7)   During the time from sunset to sunrise, unless displaying lighted
lights as required by R.C. § 4519.20 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $50 nor
more than $500, or imprisoned not less than three nor more than 30 days, or
both.
(R.C. § 4519.40)
§ 446.04 PERMITTED OPERATION.
   Snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles and all-purpose vehicles may be
operated as follows:
   (a)   To make a crossing of a highway, other than a highway as designated in
R.C. § 4519.40(A)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
whenever the crossing can be made in safety and will not interfere with the
movement of vehicular traffic approaching from any direction on the highway,
and provided that the operator yields the right-of-way to any approaching
traffic that presents an immediate hazard;
   (b)   On highways in the county or township road systems whenever the local
authority having jurisdiction over the highways so permits;
   (c)   Off and alongside street or highway for limited distances from the
point of unloading from a conveyance to the point at which the snowmobile, off-
highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle is intended and authorized to be
operated;
   (d)   On the berm or shoulder of a highway, other than a highway as
designated in R.C. § 4519.40(A)(1), or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, when the terrain permits the operation to be undertaken safely and
without the necessity of entering any traffic lane;
   (e)   On the berm or shoulder or a county or township road, while traveling
from one area of operation of the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle to another such area.
   (f)   For snowmobiles without metal studded tracks and all-purpose vehicles,
on state highways located on an island in Lake Erie, including limited access
highways and freeways, between the first day of November and the thirtieth day
of April, provided that all of the following conditions apply:
      (1)   The operator has a valid driver’s license as required under R.C. §
4519.44.
      (2)   The snowmobile or all-purpose vehicle is in compliance with rules
governing safety equipment adopted under R.C. § 4519.20.
      (3)   The owner of the snowmobile or all-purpose vehicle maintains proof
of financial responsibility for both on-road and off-road use of the snowmobile
or all-purpose vehicle.
      (4)   The operator obeys all traffic rules and regulations.
(R.C. § 4519.41)
§ 446.05 LICENSING REQUIREMENTS OF OPERATOR.
   (a)   No person who does not hold a valid, current motor vehicle driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, motorcycle operator’s endorsement or probationary
license, issued under R.C. Chapter 4506 or R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid,
current driver’s license issued by another jurisdiction, shall operate a
snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle on any street or
highway in this municipality, on any portion of the right-of-way thereof, or on
any public land or waters.
   (b)   No person who is less than 16 years of age shall operate a snowmobile,
off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle on any land or waters other than
private property or waters owned by or leased to the person’s parent or
guardian, unless accompanied by another person who is 18 years of age or older,
and who holds a license as provided in division (a) of this section, except
that the Ohio Department of Natural Resources may permit the operation on
state-controlled land under its jurisdiction when the person is less than 16
years of age and is accompanied by a parent or guardian who is a licensed
driver 18 years of age or older.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $50 nor
more than $500, or imprisoned not less than three nor more than 30 days, or
both.
(R.C. § 4519.44)
§ 446.06 ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   (a)   The operator of a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle involved in any accident resulting in bodily injury to or death of any
person or damage to the property of any person in excess of $100 shall report
the accident within 48 hours to the Chief of Police, and within 30 days shall
forward a written report of the accident to the Ohio Registrar of Motor
Vehicles on a form prescribed by the Registrar. If the operator is physically
incapable of making the reports and there is another participant in the
accident not so incapacitated, the participant shall make the reports. In the
event there is no other participant, and the operator is other than the owner,
the owner, within the prescribed periods of time, shall make the reports.
   (b)   Any law enforcement officer or other person authorized by R.C. §
4519.42 and 4519.43 who investigates or receives information of an accident
involving a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle shall
forward to the Registrar a written report of the accident within 48 hours.
(R.C. § 4519.46)
§ 446.07 LOCAL CONTROL WITHIN POLICE POWER.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall prevent the municipality from
regulating the operation of snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycle and all-purpose
vehicles on streets and highways and other public property under municipal
jurisdiction, and within the reasonable exercise of the police power, except
that no registration or licensing of any snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or
all-purpose vehicle required to be registered or titled under R.C. Chapter 4519
shall be required.
(R.C. § 4519.48)
§ 446.08 REGISTRATION OF VEHICLES.
   (a)   (1)   Except as provided in division (b), (c) and (d) of this section,
no person shall operate any snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle within this municipality unless the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle
or all-purpose vehicle is registered and numbered in accordance with R.C. §
4519.03 and 4519.04.
      (2)   Except as provided in R.C. § 4511.215 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, no registration is required for a mini-truck that is
operated within this state. A mini-truck may be operated only in accordance
with R.C. § 4511.215 and 4519.401, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (b)   (1)   No registration is required for a snowmobile or off-highway
motorcycle that is operated exclusively upon lands owned by the owner of the
snowmobile or off-highway motorcycle, or on lands to which the owner of the
snowmobile or off-highway motorcycle has a contractual right.
      (2)   No registration is required for an all-purpose vehicle that is used
primarily for agricultural purposes when the owner qualifies for the current
agricultural use valuation tax credit, unless it is to be used on any public
land, trail, or right-of-way.
      (3)   Any all-purpose vehicle exempted from registration under division
(b)(2) of this section and operated for agricultural purposes may use public
roads and rights-of-way when traveling from one farm field to another, when
such use does not violate R.C. § 4519.41.
      (4)   No registration is required for a snowmobile or all-purpose vehicle
that is operated on a state highway as authorized by R.C. § 4519.41(F).
   (c)   No registration is required for a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle
or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this state by a resident of another
state whenever that state has in effect a registration law similar to R.C.
Chapter 4519 and the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle
is properly registered under that state’s law. Any snowmobile, off-highway
motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this state by a resident of
a state not having a registration law similar to R.C. Chapter 4519 shall comply
with R.C. § 4519.09.
   (d)   No registration is required for a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle
or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this municipality by the United
States, another state or a political subdivision thereof, but the snowmobile,
off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle shall display the name of the
owner thereon.
   (e)   The owner or operator of any all-purpose vehicle operated or used upon
the waters in this municipality shall comply with R.C. Chapters 1547 and 1548
relative to the operation of watercraft.
   (f)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section shall be fined not less
than $50 nor more than $100.
(R.C. § 4519.02)
Statutory references:
   Destruction or disposal of vehicle; transfer of ownership; change of
address; loss of certificate, see R.C. § 4519.05
   Registration of emergency vehicles, see R.C. § 4519.08
   Registration procedure, see R.C. § 4519.03
   Temporary license placards and fees, see R.C. § 4519.10
   Temporary operating permit for certain nonresidents, see R.C. § 4519.09
§ 446.09 OPERATION OF OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE OR ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLE WITHOUT
CERTIFICATE OF TITLE; FAILURE TO SURRENDER.
   (a)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate in this state an off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle without having a certificate of title for the off-highway motorcycle or
all-purpose vehicle if such a certificate is required by R.C. Chapter 4519 to
be issued for the off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle, or, if a
physical certificate of title has not been issued for it, operate an off-
highway motorcycle or all- purpose vehicle knowing that the ownership
information related to the motorcycle or vehicle has not been entered into the
automated title processing system by a Clerk of a Court of Common Pleas.
      (2)   Operate in this municipality an off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle if a certificate of title to the off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle has been issued and then has been canceled.
      (3)   Fail to surrender any certificate of title upon cancellation of it
by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles and notice of the cancellation as prescribed
in R.C. Chapter 4519.
      (4)   Fail to surrender the certificate of title to a Clerk of a Court of
Common Pleas as provided in R.C. Chapter 4519, in case of the destruction or
dismantling of, or change in, the off- highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle described in the certificate of title.
      (5)   Violate any provision of R.C. § 4519.51 to 4519.70 for which no
penalty is otherwise provided or any lawful rules adopted pursuant to those
sections.
      (6)   Operate in this state an off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle knowing that the certificate of title to or ownership of the motorcycle
or vehicle as otherwise reflected in the automated title processing system has
been canceled.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $200, or
imprisoned not more than 90 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.66)
§ 446.99 PENALTY.
Editor’s note:
   See §§
408.01 and
408.02 for general traffic code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
CHAPTER 448: WATERCRAFT
Section
448.01   Definitions; applicability.
448.02   Flashing lights prohibited; exceptions.
448.03   Siren prohibited; exceptions.
448.04   Regulations for operation of powercraft of more than ten horsepower.
448.05   Restrictions on child operators; duty of supervisory adult.
448.06   Reckless operation; maintaining sufficient control; wakes restricted.
448.07   Unsafe conditions.
448.08   Marking of bathing and vessel areas.
448.09   Mooring prohibited in certain areas.
448.10   Operating under influence of alcohol or drugs prohibited.
448.11   Implied consent.
448.12   Incapacitated operators prohibited.
448.13   Water skiing confined to ski zones.
448.14   Observer required when towing skier.
448.15   Water skiing after dark prohibited.
448.16   Personal flotation device required for towed person.
448.17   Ski jumps prohibited.
448.18   Permit for special water events.
448.19   Sale of single celled inflatable vessels prohibited.
448.20   Sitting, standing, walking on moving vessels restricted.
448.21   Engine warm-up required.
448.22   Personal flotation devices for children under ten.
448.23   Operation without personal flotation devices prohibited.
448.24   Distress signal or flag required.
448.25   Anchor requirements.
448.26   Specification for fire extinguishers.
448.27   Backfire flame control device required.
448.28   Ventilation requirement on powercraft.
448.29   Abandonment of junk vessels or outboard motors.
448.30   Exhaust muffler required; noise levels; exceptions.
448.31   Safety equipment on rental vessels.
448.32   Capacity plate.
448.33   Dwellings; sanitary systems.
448.34   Prima facie evidence of negligence.
448.35   Requirements for operating personal watercraft.
448.36   Numbering.
448.37   Registration.
448.38   Altering of serial numbers; false information prohibited.
448.39   Accident reports.
448.40   Enforcement.
448.41   Certificate of title; exceptions.
448.42   Manufacturer’s or importer’s certificate.
448.43   Prohibitions.
448.44   Permanently displayed hull identification number.
448.45   Firearms offenses; signaling devices.
448.46   Tampering with navigation aid or vessel prohibited.
448.99   Penalty.
Cross-references:
   Polluting watercourses, see §
660.04
   Unauthorized use of a vehicle, see §
642.04
Statutory reference:
   Watercraft, see R.C. Chs. 1547 and 1548
§ 448.01 DEFINITIONS; APPLICABILITY.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Canoe.” A paddlecraft that is normally an open, narrow vessel of
shallow draft, typically pointed at both ends and propelled by its occupants
through the use of paddles while kneeling or sitting on a raised seat,
including a flat-backed canoe and a racing canoe.
      (2)   “Coast Guard approved.” Bearing an approval number assigned by the
United States Coast Guard.
      (3)   “Conditional approval.” A personal flotation device approval that
has one or more conditions with which the user must comply in order for the
device to be considered appropriate for meeting the requirements for personal
flotation devices for the vessel on which it is being used.
      (4)   “Diver’s flag.” A red flag not less than one foot square having a
diagonal white stripe extending from the masthead to the opposite lower corner
that when displayed indicates that divers are in the water.
      (5)   “Drug of abuse.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4506.01.
      (6)   “Electronic.” Includes electrical, digital, magnetic, optical,
electromagnetic, or any other form of technology that entails capabilities
similar to these technologies.
      (7)   “Electronic record.” A record generated, communicated, received, or
stored by electronic means for use in an information system or for transmission
from one information system to another.
      (8)   “Electronic signature.” A signature in electronic form attached to
or logically associated with an electronic record.
      (9)   “Idle speed.” The slowest possible speed needed to maintain
steerage or maneuverability.
      (10)   “Impoundment.” The reservoir created by a dam or other artificial
barrier across a watercourse that causes water to be stored deeper than and
generally beyond the banks of the natural channel of the watercourse during
periods of normal flow, but does not include water stored behind rock piles,
rock riffle dams, and low channel dams where the depth of water is less than
ten feet above the channel bottom and is essentially confined within the banks
of the natural channel during periods of normal stream flow.
      (11)   “Inflatable watercraft.” Any vessel constructed of rubber, canvas,
or other material that is designed to be inflated with any gaseous substance,
constructed with two or more air cells, and operated as a vessel. An inflatable
watercraft propelled by a motor is a powercraft. An inflatable watercraft
propelled by a sail is a sailboat. An inflatable watercraft propelled by human
muscular effort utilizing a paddle or pole is a paddlecraft. An inflatable
watercraft propelled by human muscular effort utilizing an oar with the aid of
a fulcrum provided by oarlocks, tholepins, crutches, or similar arrangements is
a rowboat.
      (12)   “In operation.” In reference to a vessel means that the vessel is
being navigated or otherwise used on the waters in this state.
      (13)   “Kayak.” A paddlecraft that is typically pointed at both ends and
is propelled by human muscular effort by one or more seated individuals who use
a double-bladed paddle, including an open kayak with an open deck for operator
seating, an enclosed kayak designed to enclose an occupant within a cockpit, a
tandem kayak designed for multiple occupants, and a racing kayak.
      (14)   “Law enforcement vessel.” Any vessel used in law enforcement or
under the command of a law enforcement officer.
      (15)   “Muffler.” An acoustical suppression device or system that is
designed and installed to abate the sound of exhaust gases emitted from an
internal combustion engine and that prevents excessive or unusual noise.
      (16)   “Navigable waters.” Waters that come under the jurisdiction of the
Department of the Army of the United States and any waterways within or
adjacent to this state, except inland lakes having neither a navigable inlet
nor outlet.
      (17)   “No wake.” Has the same meaning as “idle speed”.
      (18)   “Operator.” Includes any person who uses, navigates, employs, or
has under the person’s control a vessel, or vessel and detachable motor, on the
waters in this state.
      (19)   “Owner.” Includes any person, other than a secured party, who
claims lawful possession of a vessel by virtue of legal title or equitable
interest therein that entitled the person to use or possess the vessel,
including a person entitled to use or possess a vessel subject to a security
interest in another person, but does not include a lessee under a lease not
intended as a security.
      (20)   “Paddlecraft.” Any type of canoe, kayak, paddleboard, or other
vessel powered only by its occupants using a single or double-bladed paddle as
a lever without the aid of a fulcrum provided by oarlocks, tholepins, crutches,
or similar mechanisms.
      (21)   “Performance type.” The in-water performance classification of a
personal flotation device as determined by the United States Coast Guard.
      (22)   “Person.” Includes any legal entity defined as a person in R.C. §
1.59 and any body politic, except the United States and this state, and
includes any agent, trustee, executor, receiver, assignee, or other
representative thereof.
      (23)   “Personal flotation device.” A United States Coast Guard approved
personal safety device designed to provide buoyancy to support a person in the
water.
      (24)   “Personal watercraft.” A vessel, less than 16 feet in length, that
is propelled by a water-jet pump or other machinery and designed to be operated
by an individual sitting, standing, or kneeling on the vessel rather than by an
individual sitting or standing inside the vessel.
      (25)   “Powercraft.” Any vessel propelled by machinery, fuel, rockets, or
similar device.
      (26)   “Recreational river area.” An area declared a recreational river
area by the state under R.C. Chapter 1546 and includes those rivers or sections
of rivers that are readily accessible by road or railroad, that may have some
development along their shorelines, and that may have undergone some
impoundment or diversion in the past.
      (27)   “Rowboat.” An open vessel, other than a paddlecraft, that is
designed to be rowed and that is propelled by human muscular effort by oars and
upon which no mechanical propulsion device, electric motor, internal combustion
engine, or sail has been affixed or is used for the operation of the vessel.
The term includes a racing shell and a rowing skull regardless of length or
construction.
      (28)   “Rules.” Rules adopted by the Chief of the Division of Parks and
Watercraft under R.C. Chapter 1547, unless the context indicates otherwise.
      (29)   “Sailboat.” Any vessel, equipped with mast and sails, dependent
upon the wind to propel it in the normal course of operation. A vessel with
sail as its primary method of propulsion and mechanical propulsion as its
secondary method of propulsion is an auxiliary sail. Any sailboat being
propelled by mechanical power, whether under sail or not, is deemed a
powercraft and subject to all laws and rules governing powercraft operation.
      (30)   “Scenic river area.” An area declared a scenic river area by the
state under R.C. Chapter 1546 and includes those rivers or sections of rivers
that are free of impoundments, with shorelines or watersheds still largely
primitive and shorelines largely undeveloped, but accessible in places by
roads.
      (31)   “Sewage.” Human body wastes and the wastes from toilets and other
receptacles intended to receive or retain body waste.
      (32)   Throwable personal flotation device.” A device that is intended to
be thrown to a person in the water. The phrase includes a personal flotation
device marked as “Type IV” or “Type V with Type IV performance”. The phrase
does not include a wearable personal flotation device unless it is specifically
marked otherwise.
      (33)   “Towed watersport.” Any activity that involves being towed by or
riding in the wake of a recreational vessel, including both of the following:
         A.   Riding or attempting to ride on one or more water skis, a
wakeboard, a surfboard, an inflatable device, or any other device manufactured
or used for the purpose of being towed by a recreational vessel;
         B.   Engaging or attempting to engage in barefoot skiing or
parasailing.
      (34)   “Type one personal flotation device.” A device that is designed to
turn an unconscious person floating in water from a face downward position to a
vertical or slightly face upward position and that has at least nine kilograms,
approximately 20 pounds, of buoyancy.
      (35)   “Type two personal flotation device.” A device that is designed to
turn an unconscious person in the water from a face downward position to a
vertical or slightly face upward position and that has at least seven
kilograms, approximately 15.4 pounds, of buoyancy.
      (36)   “Type three personal flotation device.” A device that is designed
to keep a conscious person in a vertical or slightly face upward position and
that has at least seven kilograms, approximately 15.4 pounds, of buoyancy.
      (37)   “Type four personal flotation device.” A device that is designed
to be thrown to a person in the water and not worn and that has at least 7.5
kilograms, approximately 16.5 pounds, of buoyancy.
      (38)   “Type five personal flotation device.” A device that, unlike other
personal flotation devices, has limitations on its approval by the United
States Coast Guard, including, without limitation, any of the following:
         A.   A designation that states the device is approved only for use
while participating in specific activities;
         B.   A designation that states the device is approved only for use by
an operator or passenger of specific types of vessels;
         C.   A designation that states the device is specifically approved as
a substitute for the type of personal flotation device required for use while
engaged in certain activities or as an operator or passenger of a vessel.
      (39)   “Vessel.” Includes every description of craft, including
nondisplacement craft, multimodal craft, and submersibles, being used or
capable of being used as a means of transportation on water.
      (40)   “Visible.” Means visible on a dark night with clear atmosphere.
      (41)   “Watercourse.” A substantially natural channel with recognized
banks and bottom in which a flow of water occurs, with an average of at least
ten feet mean surface water width and at least five miles of length.
      (42)   “Watercraft.”
         A.   Any of the following when used or capable of being used for
transportation on the water:
            1.   A vessel operated by machinery either permanently or
temporarily affixed;
            2.   A sailboat other than a sailboard;
            3.   An inflatable, manually propelled vessel that is required by
federal law to have a hull identification number meeting the requirements of
the United States Coast Guard;
            4.   A canoe, kayak, pedalboat, or rowboat;
            5.   Any of the following multimodal craft being operated on waters
in this state:
               a.   An amphibious vehicle;
               b.   A submersible;
               c.   An airboat or hovercraft.
            6.   A vessel that has been issued a certificate of documentation
with a recreational endorsement under 46 C.F.R. 67.
         B.   The term does not include ferries as referred to in R.C. Chapter
4583.
         C.   Watercraft subject to R.C. § 1547.54 are divided into five
classes as follows:
            1.   Class A: less than 16 feet in length;
            2.   Class 1: at least 16 feet, but less than 26 feet in length;
            3.   Class 2: At least 26 feet, but less than 40 feet in length;
            4.   Class 3: At least 40 feet, but less than 65 feet in length;
            5.   Class 4: At least 65 feet in length.
      (43)   “Watercraft dealer.” Any person who is regularly engaged in the
business of manufacturing, selling, displaying, offering for sale, or dealing
in vessels at an established place of business that is used primarily for the
selling, displaying, offering for sale, or dealing of vessels. The phrase does
not include a person who is a marine salvage dealer or any other person who
dismantles, salvages, or rebuilds vessels using used parts.
      (44)   “Waters in this state.” All streams, rivers, lakes, ponds,
marshes, watercourses, waterways, and other bodies of water, natural or human-
made, that are situated wholly or partially within this state or within its
jurisdiction and are used for recreational boating.
      (45)   “Wearable personal flotation device.” A device that is intended to
be worn or otherwise attached to a person’s body. The phrase includes a
personal flotation device marked as “Type I”, “Type II”, “Type III”, “Type V
with Type II performance”, or “Type V with Type III performance”.
      (46)   “Wild river area.” An area declared a wild river area by the state
under R.C. Chapter 1546 and includes those rivers or sections of rivers that
are free of impoundments and generally inaccessible except by trail, with
watersheds or shorelines essentially primitive and waters unpolluted,
representing vestiges of primitive America.
(R.C. § 1546.01)
   (b)   Unless otherwise provided, this chapter applies to all vessels
operating on the waters in this municipality. Nothing in this chapter shall be
construed in contravention of any valid federal or state act or regulation, but
is in addition to the act or regulation where not inconsistent.
(R.C. § 1547.02)
§ 448.02 FLASHING LIGHTS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (a)   No person shall install or use any intermittently flashing light of
any type or color on any vessel in use or operation on the waters in this
municipality, except in accordance with federal law.
   (b)   No person shall operate or permit to be operated any vessel on the
waters in this municipality in violation of this section.
(R.C. § 1547.03)
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 1547.99(C))
§ 448.03 SIREN PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (a)   No person, except an authorized watercraft representative of the
federal government, the state or any of its political subdivisions shall use or
operate a siren on the waters in this municipality except for emergency
purposes.
   (b)   No person shall operate or permit to be operated any vessel on the
waters in this municipality in violation of this section.
(R.C. § 1547.04)
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 1547.99(C))
§ 448.04 REGULATIONS FOR OPERATION AND RENTAL OF POWERCRAFT OF MORE THAN TEN
HORSEPOWER.
   (a)   (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, no person
born on or after January 1, 1982, shall operate on the waters in this
municipality a powercraft powered by more than ten horsepower, unless the
operator successfully has completed either a safe boater course approved by the
National Association of State Boating Law Administrators or a proctored or
nonproctored proficiency examination that tests knowledge of information
included in the curriculum of such a course, and has received a certificate as
evidence of successful completion of the course or examination.
      (2)   Division (a)(1) of this section does not apply to an individual who
possesses valid merchant mariner credentials issued by the United States Coast
Guard in accordance with 46 C.F.R. 10.109 with at least one endorsement of
master or operator as defined in 46 C.F.R. §
10.107. Such an individual, while operating any recreational vessel on the
waters in this municipality, shall carry onboard documentation of the merchant
mariner credentials and required endorsements and shall present the
documentation to a natural resources officer or law enforcement officer upon
request.
      (3)   No person shall permit a powercraft to be operated in this
municipality in violation of division (a)(1) of this section.
(R.C. § 1547.05)
   (b)   A person born on or after January 1, 1982, who is operating on the
waters in this municipality a powercraft powered by more than ten horsepower
and who is stopped by a law enforcement officer in the enforcement of R.C.
Chapter 1547 or rules shall present to the law enforcement officer, not later
than 72 hours after being stopped, a certificate obtained by the person
pursuant to division (a) of this section prior to being stopped or proof of
holding such a certificate. Failure of the person to present the certificate or
proof of holding it within 72 hours constitutes prima facie evidence of a
violation of division (a) of this section.
(R.C. § 1547.051)
   (c)   No rental business shall lease, hire or rent a powercraft powered by
more than ten horsepower for operation on the waters in this municipality to a
person born on or after January 1, 1982, unless the person meets one of the
following requirements:
      (1)   The person signs a statement on the rental agreement or attached to
the rental agreement that the person has successfully completed a safe boater
course approved by the National Association of State Boating Law Administrators
or has successfully completed a proficiency examination as provided in division
(a) of this section.
      (2)   The person receives educational materials from the rental business
and successfully passes, with a score of 90% or better, an abbreviated
examination given by the rental business. The achievement of a passing score on
the examination shall be indicated on or attached to the powercraft rental
agreement.
   (d)   Any person born on or after January 1, 1982, operating or supervising
the operation of a leased, hired or rented powercraft shall:
      (1)   Meet the requirements for boater education of division (c) of this
section.
      (2)   Be named as an operator on the agreement that leases, hires or
rents the powercraft.
   (e)   The Division of Parks and Watercraft shall make available to all
watercraft rental businesses in the state boater safety educational materials
and an abbreviated examination that shall be used by the watercraft rental
business for the purposes of division (c)(2) of this section.
(R.C. § 1547.052)
   (f)   Whoever violates division (a) or (b) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree if the violation is not related to a
collision, injury to a person, or damage to property and a misdemeanor of the
third degree if the violation is related to a collision, injury to a person, or
damage to property.
(R.C. § 1547.99(K))
   (g)   Whoever violates division (c) or (d) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 1547.99(C))
   (h)   The sentencing court, in addition to the penalty provided under this
section for a violation of this section or a rule adopted under it that
involves a powercraft powered by more than ten horsepower and that, in the
opinion of the court, involves a threat to the safety of persons or property,
shall order the offender to complete successfully a boating course approved by
the National Association of State Boating Law Administrators before the
offender is allowed to operate a powercraft powered by more than ten horsepower
on the waters in this state. Violation of a court order entered under this
division is punishable as contempt under R.C. Chapter 2705.
(R.C. § 1547.99(L))
§ 448.05 RESTRICTIONS ON CHILD OPERATORS; DUTY OF SUPERVISORY ADULT.
   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, no person under 16
years of age shall operate a personal watercraft on the waters in this
municipality. A person who is not less than 12 nor more than 15 years of age
may operate a personal watercraft if a supervising person 18 years of age or
older is aboard the personal watercraft and, in the case of a supervising
person born on or after January 1, 1982, if the supervising person holds a
certificate obtained under §
448.04(a) or, in the case of a rented powercraft, meets the requirements of §
448.04(c) and (d).
   (b)   No person under 12 years of age shall operate any vessel on the waters
in this municipality unless the person is under the direct visual and audible
supervision, during the operation, of a person who is 18 years of age or older.
This division does not apply to a personal watercraft, which shall be governed
by division (a) of this section, or to a powercraft, other than a personal
watercraft, powered by more than ten horsepower, which shall be governed by
division (c) of this section.
   (c)   No person under 12 years of age shall operate on the waters in this
municipality a powercraft, other than a personal watercraft, powered by more
than ten horsepower unless the person is under the direct visual and audible
supervision, during the operation, of a person 18 years of age or older who is
aboard the powercraft and, in the case of such a supervising person born on or
after January 1, 1982, who holds a certificate obtained under §
448.04(a) or, in the case of a rented powercraft, meets the requirements of §
448.04(c) and (d).
   (d)   No supervising person 18 years of age or older shall permit any person
who is under the supervising person’s supervision and who is operating a vessel
on the waters in this municipality to violate any section of this chapter, R.C.
Chapter 1547 or a rule.
(R.C. § 1547.06)
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 1547.99(C))
§ 448.06 RECKLESS OPERATION; MAINTAINING SUFFICIENT CONTROL; WAKES RESTRICTED.
   (a)   Reckless Operation.
      (1)   Any person who operates any vessel or manipulates any water skis,
aquaplane or similar device on the waters in this municipality carelessly or
heedlessly, or in disregard of the rights or safety of any person, vessel or
property, or without due caution, at a rate of speed or in a manner so as to
endanger any person, vessel or property is guilty of reckless operation of the
vessel or other device.
      (2)   No person shall operate or permit the operation of a vessel in an
unsafe manner. A vessel shall be operated in a reasonable and prudent manner at
all times. Unsafe vessel operation includes, without limitation, any of the
following:
         A.   A vessel becoming airborne or completely leaving the water while
crossing the wake of another vessel at a distance of less than 100 feet, or at
an unsafe distance, from the vessel creating the wake;
         B.   Operating at such a speed and proximity to another vessel or to a
person attempting to ride on one or more water skis, surfboard, inflatable
device or similar device being towed by a vessel so as to require the operator
of either vessel to swerve or turn abruptly to avoid collision;
         C.   Operating less than 200 feet directly behind a person water
skiing or attempting to water ski;
         D.   Weaving through congested traffic.
(R.C. § 1547.07)
   (b)   Maintaining Sufficient Control. No person shall operate or permit the
operation of a vessel on the waters in this municipality without maintaining
sufficient control to avoid an incident that results in property damage,
physical injury, loss of life or any combination of them.
(R.C. § 1547.072)
   (c)   Wakes Restricted.
      (1)   As used in this division (c), “public service” means activities
that include but are not limited to escorting or patrolling special water
events, traffic control, salvage, firefighting, medical assistance, assisting
disabled vessels, and search and rescue.
      (2)   No person shall operate a vessel at a speed that creates a wake
within 100 feet of a stationary law enforcement vessel displaying at least one
flashing, oscillating or rotating light conforming with 33 C.F.R. 88.11.
      (3)   No person shall operate a vessel at a speed that creates a wake
within 100 feet of a vessel that is being used to provide public service and
that displays at least one flashing, oscillating or rotating light conforming
with 33 C.F.R. 88.12.
      (4)   No person shall permit any vessel to be operated on the waters in
this municipality in violation of this division (c).
(R.C. § 1547.132)
   (d)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates divisions (a) or (c) of this section without
causing injury to persons or damage to property is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 1547.99(D))
      (2)   Whoever violates divisions (a) or (c) of this section causing
injury to persons or damage to property is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. § 1547.99(E))
      (3)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section shall be subject to
the penalty provided in §
448.99.
§ 448.07 UNSAFE CONDITIONS.
   (a)   If a law enforcement officer observes a vessel being used and
determines that at least one of the unsafe conditions identified in division
(c) of this section is present and that an especially hazardous condition
exists, the officer may direct the operator of the vessel to take whatever
immediate and reasonable actions are necessary for the safety of the persons
aboard the vessel, including directing the operator to return the vessel to
mooring and remain there until the situation creating the hazardous condition
is corrected or has ended. For the purposes of this section, an “especially
hazardous condition” is one in which a reasonably prudent person would believe
that the continued operation of a vessel would create a special hazard to the
safety of the persons aboard the vessel.
   (b)   The refusal by an operator of a vessel to terminate use of the vessel
after being ordered to do so by a law enforcement officer under division (a) of
this section is prima facie evidence of a violation of §
448.06.
   (c)   For the purposes of this section, any of the following is an unsafe
condition:
      (1)   Insufficient personal flotation devices;
      (2)   Insufficient fire extinguishers;
      (3)   Overloaded, insufficient freeboard for the water conditions in
which the vessel is operating;
      (4)   Improper display of navigation lights;
      (5)   Fuel leaks, including fuel leaking from either the engine or the
fuel system;
      (6)   Accumulation of or an abnormal amount of fuel in the bilges;
      (7)   Inadequate backfire flame control;
      (8)   Improper ventilation.
   (d)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   Foreign vessels temporarily using waters that are subject to the
jurisdiction of the United States;
      (2)   Military vessels, vessels owned by the state or a political
subdivision, or other public vessels, except those that are used for
recreation;
      (3)   A ship’s lifeboats, as defined in R.C. § 1548.01;
      (4)   Vessels that are solely commercial and that are carrying more than
six passengers for hire.
(R.C. § 1547.071)
§ 448.08 MARKING OF BATHING AND VESSEL AREAS.
   (a)   No person shall operate a vessel within or through a designated
bathing area or within or through any area that has been buoyed off designating
it as an area in which vessels are prohibited.
   (b)   (1)   No person shall operate a vessel at greater than idle speed or
at a speed that creates a wake under any of the following circumstances:
         A.   Within 300 feet of any marina, boat docking facility, boat
gasoline dock, launch ramp, recreational boat harbor or harbor entrance on Lake
Erie or on the Ohio River;
         B.   During the period from sunset to sunrise according to local time
within any water between the Dan Beard bridge and the Brent Spence bridge on
the Ohio River for any vessel not documented by the United States Coast Guard
as commercial;
         C.   Within any area buoyed or marked as a “no wake” area on the
waters in this municipality.
      (2)   Division (b)(1) of this section does not apply in either of the
following places:
         A.   An area designated by the Chief of the Division of Parks and
Watercraft unless it is marked by a buoy or sign as a “no wake” or “idle speed”
area;
         B.   Within any water between the Dan Beard bridge and the Brent
Spence bridge on the Ohio River when the United States Coast Guard has
authorized the holding of a special event of a community nature on that water.
   (c)   No person shall operate a vessel in any area of restricted or
controlled operation in violation of the designated restriction.
   (d)   No person shall operate a vessel within 300 feet of an official
diver’s flag unless the person is tendering the diving operation.
   (e)   (1)   All areas of restricted or controlled operation as described in
division (a) of this section or as provided for in §
448.13 or R.C. § 1547.16 or 1547.61 shall be marked by a buoy or sign
designating the restriction. All waters surrounded by or lying between such a
buoy or sign and the closest shoreline are thereby designated as an area in
which the designated restrictions shall apply in the operation of any vessel.
      (2)   Markings on buoys designating areas of restricted or controlled
operation shall be so spaced as to show all around the horizon. Lineal spacing
between the buoys shall be such that under normal conditions of visibility any
buoy shall be readily visible from the next adjacent buoy. No colors or
symbols, except as provided for in rules, shall be used on buoys or signs for
marking closed or controlled areas of boating waters.
      (3)   Any state department, conservancy district or political subdivision
having jurisdiction and control of impounded boating waters may place such
buoys or signs on its waters. Any political subdivision may apply to the Chief
of the Division of Parks and Watercraft for permission to place such buoys or
signs on other waters within its territorial limits. No person shall place or
cause to be placed a regulatory buoy or sign on, into or along the waters in
this municipality unless the person has complied with all the provisions of
this chapter and R.C. Chapter 1547.
   (f)   No person shall enter, operate a vessel that enters or allow a vessel
to enter a federally- declared security zone as defined in 33 C.F.R. Chapter 1,
subparts 6.01-1, 6.01-2, 6.01-3, 6.01-4, 6.01-5, 6.04-1, 6.04-5, 6.04-6, 6.04-
7 and 6.04-8.
   (g)   No person shall permit any vessel to be operated on the waters in this
municipality in violation of this section.
(R.C. § 1547.08)
   (h)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) or (g) of this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 1547.99(C))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (f) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 1547.99(B))
§ 448.09 MOORING PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN AREAS.
   (a)   No person shall moor or anchor any vessel in a designated speed zone
or water ski zone. No person, unless in distress and no other vessel is
endangered thereby, shall moor to, anchor to or tie up to any marker, aid,
buoy, light or other aid to navigation.
   (b)   No person shall operate or permit to be operated any vessel on the
waters in this municipality in violation of this section.
(R.C. § 1547.09)
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor
(R.C. § 1547.99(C))
§ 448.10 OPERATING UNDER INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL OR DRUGS PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No person shall operate or be in physical control of any vessel
underway or shall manipulate any water skis, aquaplane or similar device on the
waters in this municipality if, at the time of the operation, control or
manipulation, any of the following applies:
      (1)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a
combination of them;
      (2)   The person has a concentration of 0.08% or more by weight of
alcohol per unit volume in the person’s whole blood;
      (3)   The person has a concentration of 0.096% or more by weight per unit
volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or plasma;
      (4)   The person has a concentration of 0.11 grams or more by weight of
alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s urine;
      (5)   The person has a concentration of 0.08 grams or more by weight of
alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
      (6)   Except as provided in division (h) of this section, the person has
a concentration of any of the following controlled substances or metabolites of
a controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or
urine that equals or exceeds any of the following:
         A.   The person has a concentration of amphetamine in the person’s
urine of at least 500 nanograms of amphetamine per milliliter of the person’s
urine or has a concentration of amphetamine in the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma of at least 100 nanograms of amphetamine per milliliter
of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
         B.   The person has a concentration of cocaine in the person’s urine
of at least 150 nanograms of cocaine per milliliter of the person’s urine or
has a concentration of cocaine in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma of at least 50 nanograms of cocaine per milliliter of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma.
         C.   The person has a concentration of cocaine metabolite in the
person’s urine of at least 150 nanograms of cocaine metabolite per milliliter
of the person’s urine or has a concentration of cocaine metabolite in the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 50 nanograms of
cocaine metabolite per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma.
         D.   The person has a concentration of heroin in the person’s urine of
at least 2,000 nanograms of heroin per milliliter of the person’s urine or has
a concentration of heroin in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma
of at least 50 nanograms of heroin per milliliter of the person’s whole blood
or blood serum or plasma.
         E.   The person has a concentration of heroin metabolite (6-monoacetyl
morphine) in the person’s urine of at least ten nanograms of heroin metabolite
(6-monoacetyl morphine) per milliliter of the person’s urine or has a
concentration of heroin metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) in the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least ten nanograms of heroin
metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) per milliliter of the person’s whole blood
or blood serum or plasma.
         F.   The person has a concentration of L.S.D. in the person’s urine of
at least 25 nanograms of L.S.D. per milliliter of the person’s urine or has a
concentration of L.S.D. in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of
at least ten nanograms of L.S.D. per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma.
         G.   The person has a concentration of marihuana in the person’s urine
of at least ten nanograms of marihuana per milliliter of the person’s urine or
has a concentration of marihuana in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma of at least two nanograms of marihuana per milliliter of the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
         H.   The State Board of Pharmacy has adopted a rule pursuant to R.C. §
4729.041 that specifies the amount of salvia divinorum and the amount of
salvinorin A that constitute concentrations of salvia divinorum and salvinorin
A in a person’s urine, in a person’s whole blood, or in a person’s blood serum
or plasma at or above which the person is impaired for purposes of operating or
being in physical control of any vessel underway or manipulating any water
skis, aquaplane or similar device on the waters of this state, the rule is in
effect, and the person has a concentration of salvia divinorum or salvinorin A
of at least that amount so specified by rule in the person’s urine, in the
person’s whole blood, or in the person’s blood serum or plasma.
         I.   Either of the following applies:
            1.   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse,
or a combination of them, and, as measured by gas chromatography mass
spectrometry, the person has a concentration of marihuana metabolite in the
person’s urine of at least 15 nanograms of marihuana metabolite per milliliter
of the person’s urine or has a concentration of marihuana metabolite in the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least five nanograms of
marihuana metabolite per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum
or plasma.
            2.   As measured by gas chromatography mass spectrometry, the
person has a concentration of marihuana metabolite in the person’s urine of at
least 35 nanograms of marihuana metabolite per milliliter of the person’s urine
or has a concentration of marihuana metabolite in the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma of at least 50 nanograms of marihuana metabolite per
milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
         J.   The person has a concentration of methamphetamine in the person’s
urine of at least 500 nanograms of methamphetamine per milliliter of the
person’s urine or has a concentration of methamphetamine in the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 100 nanograms of methamphetamine per
milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
         K.   The person has a concentration of phencyclidine in the person’s
urine of at least 25 nanograms of phencyclidine per milliliter of the person’s
urine or has a concentration of phencyclidine in the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma of at least ten nanograms of phencyclidine per milliliter
of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
   (b)   No person under 21 years of age shall operate or be in physical
control of any vessel underway or shall manipulate any water skis, aquaplane or
similar device on the waters in this municipality if, at the time of the
operation, control or manipulation, any of the following applies:
      (1)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.02% but less than
0.08% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood;
      (2)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.03% but less than
0.096% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or
plasma.
      (3)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.028 grams, but less
than 0.11 grams by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s urine;
      (4)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.02 grams, but less
than 0.08 grams by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
   (c)   In any proceeding arising out of one incident, a person may be charged
with a violation of division (a)(1) and a violation of division (b)(1), (b)(2),
(b)(3) or (b)(4) of this section, but the person shall not be convicted of more
than one violation of those divisions.
   (d)   (1)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of division (a) or (b) of this section or for an equivalent offense
that is watercraft-related, the result of any test of any blood or urine
withdrawn and analyzed at any health care provider, as defined in R.C. §
2317.02, may be admitted with expert testimony to be considered with any other
relevant and competent evidence in determining the guilt or innocence of the
defendant.
      (2)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of division (a) or (b) of this section or for an equivalent offense
that is watercraft-related, the court may admit evidence on the concentration
of alcohol, drugs of abuse, controlled substances, metabolites of a controlled
substance, or a combination of them in the defendant’s or child’s whole blood,
blood serum or plasma, urine or breath at the time of the alleged violation as
shown by chemical analysis of the substance withdrawn, or specimen taken within
three hours of the time of the alleged violation. The three-hour time limit
specified in this division regarding the admission of evidence does not extend
or affect the two-hour time limit specified in §
448.12(c) or R.C. § 1547.111(C) as the maximum period of time during which a
person may consent to a chemical test or tests as described in that section.
The court may admit evidence on the concentration of alcohol, drugs of abuse,
or a combination of them as described in this division when a person submits to
a blood, breath, urine or other bodily substance test at the request of a law
enforcement officer under R.C. § 1547.111, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or a blood or urine sample is obtained pursuant to a
search warrant. Only a physician, a registered nurse, an emergency medical
technician-intermediate, an emergency medical technician-paramedic, or a
qualified technician, chemist or phlebotomist shall withdraw blood for the
purpose of determining the alcohol, drug, controlled substance, metabolite of a
controlled substance, or combination content of the whole blood, blood serum or
blood plasma. This limitation does not apply to the taking of breath or urine
specimens. A person authorized to withdraw blood under this division may refuse
to withdraw blood under this division if, in that person’s opinion, the
physical welfare of the defendant or child would be endangered by withdrawing
blood.
      (3)   The whole blood, blood serum or plasma, urine, or breath withdrawn
under division (d)(2) of this section shall be analyzed in accordance with
methods approved by the director of health by an individual possessing a valid
permit issued by the director pursuant to R.C. § 3701.143.
      (4)   In a criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of division (a) of this section or for an equivalent offense that is
watercraft-related, if there was at the time the bodily substance was taken a
concentration of less than the applicable concentration of alcohol specified
for a violation of division (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4) or (a)(5) of this section or
less than the applicable concentration of a listed controlled substance or a
listed metabolite of a controlled substance specified for a violation of
division (a)(6) of this section, that fact may be considered with other
competent evidence in determining the guilt or innocence of the defendant or in
making an adjudication for the child. This division does not limit or affect a
criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a violation of division
(b) of this section or for a violation of a prohibition that is substantially
equivalent to that division.
      (5)   Upon the request of the person who was tested, the results of the
chemical test shall be made available to the person or the person’s attorney
immediately upon completion of the test analysis.
      (6)   If the chemical test was administered pursuant to division (d)(2)
of this section, the person tested may have a physician, registered nurse or
qualified technician, chemist or phlebotomist of the person’s own choosing
administer a chemical test or tests in addition to any administered at the
direction of a law enforcement officer, and shall be so advised. The failure or
inability to obtain an additional test by a person shall not preclude the
admission of evidence relating to the test or tests taken at the direction of a
law enforcement officer.
   (e)   (1)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of division (a) or (b) of this section, of a municipal ordinance
relating to operating or being in physical control of any vessel underway or to
manipulating any water skis, aquaplane or similar device on the waters of this
state while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination
of them, or of a municipal ordinance relating to operating or being in physical
control of any vessel underway or to manipulating any water skis, aquaplane or
similar device on the waters of this state with a prohibited concentration of
alcohol, a controlled substance or a metabolite of a controlled substance in
the whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath or urine, if a law enforcement
officer has administered a field sobriety test to the operator or person found
to be in physical control of the vessel underway involved in the violation or
the person manipulating the water skis, aquaplane or similar device involved in
the violation and if it is shown by clear and convincing evidence that the
officer administered the test in substantial compliance with the testing
standards for reliable, credible and generally accepted field sobriety tests
for vehicles that were in effect at the time the tests were administered,
including but not limited to any testing standards then in effect that have
been set by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, that by their
nature are not clearly inapplicable regarding the operation or physical control
of vessels underway or the manipulation of water skis, aquaplanes or similar
devices, all of the following apply:
         A.   The officer may testify concerning the results of the field
sobriety test so administered.
         B.   The prosecution may introduce the results of the field sobriety
test so administered as evidence in any proceedings in the criminal prosecution
or juvenile court proceeding.
         C.   If testimony is presented or evidence is introduced under
division (e)(1)A. or (e)(1)B. of this section and if the testimony or evidence
is admissible under the Rules of Evidence, the court shall admit the testimony
or evidence, and the trier of fact shall give it whatever weight the trier of
fact considers to be appropriate.
      (2)   Division (e)(1) of this section does not limit or preclude a court,
in its determination of whether the arrest of a person was supported by
probable cause or its determination of any other matter in a criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding of a type described in that division,
from considering evidence or testimony that is not otherwise disallowed by
division (e)(1) of this section.
   (f)   (1)   Subject to division (f)(3) of this section, in any criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a violation of division (a) or (b)
of this section or for an equivalent offense that is substantially equivalent
to either of those divisions, the court shall admit as prima facie evidence a
laboratory report from any laboratory personnel issued a permit by the
Department of Health authorizing an analysis as described in this division that
contains an analysis of the whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, urine
or other bodily substance tested and that contains all of the information
specified in this division. The laboratory report shall contain all of the
following:
         A.   The signature, under oath, of any person who performed the
analysis;
         B.   Any findings as to the identity and quantity of alcohol, a drug
of abuse, a controlled substance, a metabolite of a controlled substance, or a
combination of them that was found;
         C.   A copy of a notarized statement by the laboratory director or a
designee of the director that contains the name of each certified analyst or
test performer involved with the report, the analyst’s or test performer’s
employment relationship with the laboratory that issued the report, and a
notation that performing an analysis of the type involved is part of the
analyst’s or test performer’s regular duties;
         D.   An outline of the analyst’s or test performer’s education,
training and experience in performing the type of analysis involved and a
certification that the laboratory satisfies appropriate quality control
standards in general and, in this particular analysis, under rules of the
Department of Health.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law regarding the admission
of evidence, a report of the type described in division (f)(1) of this section
is not admissible against the defendant or child to whom it pertains in any
proceeding, other than a preliminary hearing or a grand jury proceeding, unless
the prosecutor has served a copy of the report on the defendant’s or child’s
attorney or, if the defendant or child has no attorney, on the defendant or
child.
      (3)   A report of the type described in division (f)(1) of this section
shall not be prima facie evidence of the contents, identity or amount of any
substance if, within seven days after the defendant or child to whom the report
pertains or the defendant’s or child’s attorney receives a copy of the report,
the defendant or child or the defendant’s or child’s attorney demands the
testimony of the person who signed the report. The judge in the case may extend
the seven-day time limit in the interests of justice.
   (g)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, any physician,
registered nurse, emergency medical technician-intermediate, emergency medical
technician-paramedic, or qualified technician, chemist or phlebotomist who
withdraws blood from a person pursuant to this section, R.C. § 1547.111 or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and a hospital, first-aid station
or clinic at which blood is withdrawn from a person pursuant to this section,
R.C. § 1547.111 or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, is immune
from criminal and civil liability based upon a claim of assault and battery or
any other claim that is not a claim of malpractice, for any act performed in
withdrawing blood from the person. The immunity provided in this division also
extends to an emergency medical service organization that employs an emergency
medical technician-intermediate or an emergency medical technician-paramedic
who withdraws blood under this section. The immunity provided in this division
is not available to a person who withdraws blood if the person engages in
willful or wanton misconduct.
   (h)   Division (a)(6) of this section does not apply to a person who
operates or is in physical control of a vessel underway or manipulates any
water skis, aquaplane or similar device while the person has a concentration of
a listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance
in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine that equals or
exceeds the amount specified in that division, if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs.
      (2)   The person injected, ingested or inhaled the controlled substance
in accordance with the health professional’s directions.
   (i)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Cocaine” and “L.S.D.” Have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2925.01.
      (2)   “Controlled substance” and “marihuana.” Have the same meanings as
in R.C. § 3719.01.
      (3)   “Emergency medical technician-intermediate” and “Emergency medical
technician- paramedic.” Have the same meanings as in R.C. § 4765.01.
      (4)   “Equivalent offense.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.181.
      (5)   “Equivalent offense that is watercraft-related.” An equivalent
offense that is one of the following:
         (a)   A violation of division (a) or (b) of this section;
         (b)   A violation of a municipal ordinance prohibiting a person from
operating or being in physical control of any vessel underway or from
manipulating any water skis, aquaplane or similar device on the waters of this
state while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination
of them or prohibiting a person from operating or being in physical control of
any vessel underway or from manipulating any water skis, aquaplane or similar
device on the waters of this state with a prohibited concentration of alcohol,
a controlled substance or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine;
         (c)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance, law of
another state, or law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to
division (a) or (b) of this section;
         (d)   A violation of an existing or former law of this state that is
or was substantially equivalent to division (a) or (b) of this section.
      (6)   “National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.” Has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 4511.19.
      (7)   “Operate.” A vessel is being used on the waters in this state when
the vessel is not securely affixed to a dock or to shore or to any permanent
structure to which the vessel has the right to affix or that a vessel is not
anchored in a designated anchorage area or boat camping area that is
established by the United States Coast Guard, this state or a political
subdivision and in which the vessel has the right to anchor.
(R.C. 1547.11)
   (j)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree and shall be punished as provided in division (j)(1), (j)(2) or (j)(3)
of this section.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (j)(2) or (j)(3) of this
section, the court shall sentence the offender to a jail term of three
consecutive days and may sentence the offender pursuant to R.C. § 2929.24 to a
longer jail term. In addition, the court shall impose upon the offender a fine
of not less than $150 nor more than $1,000. The court may suspend the execution
of the mandatory jail term of three consecutive days that it is required to
impose by this division (j)(1) if the court, in lieu of the suspended jail
term, places the offender under a community control sanction pursuant to R.C. §
2929.25 and requires the offender to attend, for three consecutive days, a
drivers’ intervention program that is certified pursuant to R.C. § 5119.38. The
court also may suspend the execution of any part of the mandatory jail term of
three consecutive days that it is required to impose by this division (j)(1) if
the court places the offender under a community control sanction pursuant to
R.C. § 2929.25 for part of the three consecutive days; requires the offender to
attend, for that part of the three consecutive days, a drivers’ intervention
program that is certified pursuant to R.C. § 5119.38; and sentences the
offender to a jail term equal to the remainder of the three consecutive days
that the offender does not spend attending the drivers’ intervention program.
The court may require the offender, as a condition of community control, to
attend and satisfactorily complete any treatment or education programs, in
addition to the required attendance at a drivers’ intervention program, that
the operators of the drivers’ intervention program determine that the offender
should attend and to report periodically to the court on the offender’s
progress in the programs. The court also may impose any other conditions of
community control on the offender that it considers necessary.
      (2)   If, within ten years of the offense, the offender has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of this section, R.C. § 1547.11
or one other equivalent offense, the court shall sentence the offender to a
jail term of ten consecutive days and may sentence the offender pursuant to
R.C. § 2929.24 to a longer jail term. In addition, the court shall impose upon
the offender a fine of not less than $150 nor more than $1,000. In addition to
any other sentence that it imposes upon the offender, the court may require the
offender to attend a drivers’ intervention program that is certified pursuant
to R.C. § 5119.38.
      (3)   If, within ten years of the offense, the offender has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to more than one violation or offense identified
in division (j)(2) of this section, the court shall sentence the offender to a
jail term of 30 consecutive days and may sentence the offender to a longer jail
term of not more than one year. In addition, the court shall impose upon the
offender a fine of not less than $150 nor more than $1,000. In addition to any
other sentence that it imposes upon the offender, the court may require the
offender to attend a drivers’ intervention program that is certified pursuant
to R.C. § 5119.38.
      (4)   Upon a showing that serving a jail term would seriously affect the
ability of an offender sentenced pursuant to division (j)(1), (j)(2) or (j)(3)
of this section to continue the offender’s employment, the court may authorize
that the offender be granted work release after the offender has served the
mandatory jail term of three, ten or 30 consecutive days that the court is
required by division (j)(1), (j)(2) or (j)(3) of this section to impose. No
court shall authorize work release during the mandatory jail term of three, ten
or 30 consecutive days that the court is required by division (j)(1), (j)(2) or
(j)(3) of this section to impose. The duration of the work release shall not
exceed the time necessary each day for the offender to commute to and from the
place of employment and the place in which the jail term is served and the time
actually spent under employment.
      (5)   Notwithstanding any section of the Ohio Revised Code that
authorizes the suspension of the imposition or execution of a sentence or the
placement of an offender in any treatment program in lieu of being imprisoned
or serving a jail term, no court shall suspend the mandatory jail term of ten
or 30 consecutive days required to be imposed by division (j)(2) or (j)(3) of
this section or place an offender who is sentenced pursuant to division (j)(2)
or (j)(3) of this section in any treatment program in lieu being imprisoned or
serving a jail term until after the offender has served the mandatory jail term
of ten or 30 consecutive days required to be imposed pursuant to division (j)
(2) or (j)(3) of this section. Notwithstanding any section of the Ohio Revised
Code that authorizes the suspension of the imposition or execution of a
sentence or the placement of an offender in any treatment program in lieu of
being imprisoned or serving a jail term, no court, except as specifically
authorized by division (j)(1) of this section, shall suspend the mandatory jail
term of three consecutive days required to be imposed by division (j)(1) of
this section or place an offender who is sentenced pursuant to division (j)(1)
of this section in any treatment program in lieu of being imprisoned or serving
a jail term until after the offender has served the mandatory jail term of
three consecutive days required to be imposed pursuant to division (j)(1) of
this section.
      (6)   For the purpose of this division (j) of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         A.   “Equivalent offense.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.181.
         B.   “Jail term” and “mandatory jail term.” Have the same meanings as
in R.C. § 2929.01.
(R.C. § 1547.99(G))
§ 448.11 IMPLIED CONSENT.
   (a)   (1)   A.   Any person who operates or is in physical control of a
vessel or manipulates any water skis, aquaplane or similar device upon any
waters in this municipality shall be deemed to have given consent to a chemical
test or tests to determine the alcohol, drug of abuse, controlled substance,
metabolite of a controlled substance, or combination content of the person’s
whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath or urine if arrested for operating
or being in physical control of a vessel or manipulating any water skis,
aquaplane or similar device in violation of R.C. § 1547.11 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
         B.   The test or tests under division (a)(1)A. of this section shall
be administered at the request of a law enforcement officer having reasonable
grounds to believe the person was operating or in physical control of a vessel
or manipulating any water skis, aquaplane or similar device in violation of
R.C. § 1547.11 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance. The law
enforcement agency by which the officer is employed shall designate which test
or tests shall be administered.
      (2)   Any person who is dead or unconscious or who otherwise is in a
condition rendering the person incapable of refusal shall be deemed to have
consented as provided in division (a)(1) of this section, and the test or tests
may be administered, subject to R.C. § 313.12 to 313.16.
   (b)   (1)   If a law enforcement officer arrests a person for operating or
being in physical control of a vessel or manipulating any water skis, aquaplane
or similar device in violation of R.C. § 1547.11 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and if the person previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to two or more violations of §
1547.11 or other equivalent offenses, the law enforcement officer shall request
the person to submit, and the person shall submit, to a chemical test or tests
of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine for the
purpose of determining the alcohol, drug of abuse, controlled substance,
metabolite of a controlled substance, or combination content of the person’s
whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine. A law enforcement officer
who makes a request pursuant to this division that a person submit to a
chemical test or tests is not required to advise the person of the consequences
of refusing to submit to the test or tests and is not required to give the
person the form described in division (c) of this section, but the officer
shall advise the person at the time of the arrest that if the person refuses to
take a chemical test the officer may employ whatever reasonable means are
necessary to ensure that the person submits to a chemical test of the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma. The officer shall also advise the person
at the time of the arrest that the person may have an independent chemical test
taken at the person’s own expense. The advice shall be in written form
prescribed by the Chief of the Division of Parks and Watercraft and shall be
read to the person. The form shall contain a statement that the form was shown
to the person under arrest and read to the person by the arresting officer. The
reading of the form shall be witnessed by one or more persons, and the
witnesses shall certify to this fact by signing the form. Divisions (a)(1)B.
and (a)(2) of this section apply to the administration of a chemical test or
tests pursuant to this division.
      (2)   If a person refuses to submit to a chemical test upon a request
made pursuant to division (b)(1) of this section, the law enforcement officer
who made the request may employ whatever reasonable means are necessary to
ensure that the person submits to a chemical test of the person’s whole blood
or blood serum or plasma. A law enforcement officer who acts pursuant to this
division to ensure that a person submits to a chemical test of the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma is immune from criminal and civil
liability based upon a claim for assault and battery or any other claim for the
acts, unless the officer so acted with malicious purpose, in bad faith, or in a
wanton or reckless manner.
   (c)   Except as provided in division (b) of this section, any person under
arrest for violating R.C. § 1547.11 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance shall be advised of the consequences of refusing to submit to a
chemical test or tests designated as provided in division (a) of this section.
The advice shall be in a written form prescribed by the Chief of the Division
of Parks and Watercraft and shall be read to the person. The form shall contain
a statement that the form was shown to the person under arrest and read to the
person by the arresting officer. The reading of the form shall be witnessed by
one or more persons, and the witnesses shall certify to this fact by signing
the form. The person must submit to the chemical test or tests, subsequent to
the request of the arresting officer, within two hours of the time of the
alleged violation, and if the person does not submit to the test or tests
within that two- hour time limit, the failure to submit automatically
constitutes a refusal to submit to the test or tests.
   (d)   (1)   Except as provided in division (b) of this section, if a law
enforcement officer asks a person under arrest for violating R.C. § 1547.11 or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to submit to a chemical test or
tests as provided in division (a) of this section, if the arresting officer
advises the person of the consequences of the person’s refusal as provided in
division (c) of this section, and the person refuses to submit, no chemical
test shall be given. Upon receipt of a sworn statement of the officer that the
arresting law enforcement officer had reasonable grounds to believe the
arrested person violated R.C. § 1547.11 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance and that the person refused to submit to the chemical test upon the
request of the officer, and upon receipt of the form as provided in division
(d) of this section certifying that the arrested person was advised of the
consequences of the refusal, the Chief of the Division of Parks and Watercraft
shall inform the person by written notice that the person is prohibited from
operating or being in physical control of a vessel, from manipulating any water
skis, aquaplane or similar device, and from registering any watercraft in
accordance with R.C. § 1547.54, for one year following the date of the alleged
violation. The suspension of these operation, physical control, manipulation
and registration privileges shall continue for the entire one-year period,
subject to review as provided in this section.
      (2)   If the person under arrest is the owner of the vessel involved in
the alleged violation, the law enforcement officer who arrested the person
shall seize the watercraft registration certificate and tags from the vessel
involved in the violation and forward them to the Chief of the Division of
Parks and Watercraft. The Chief of the Division of Parks and Watercraft shall
retain the impounded registration certificate and tags and shall impound all
other registration certificates and tags issued to the person in accordance
with R.C. § 1547.54 and 1547.57, for a period of one year following the date of
the alleged violation, subject to review as provided in this section.
      (3)   If the arrested person fails to surrender the registration
certificate because it is not on the person of the arrested person or in the
watercraft, the law enforcement officer who made the arrest shall order the
person to surrender it within 24 hours to the law enforcement officer or the
law enforcement agency that employs the law enforcement officer. If the person
fails to do so, the law enforcement officer shall notify the Chief of the
Division of Parks and Watercraft of that fact in the statement the officer
submits to the Chief of the Division of Parks and Watercraft under this
division.
   (e)   Upon suspending a person’s operation, physical control, manipulation
and registration privileges in accordance with division (d) of this section,
the Chief of the Division of Parks and Watercraft shall notify the person in
writing, at the person’s last known address, and inform the person that the
person may petition for a hearing in accordance with division (f) of this
section. If a person whose operation, physical control, manipulation and
registration privileges have been suspended petitions for a hearing or appeals
any adverse decision, the suspension shall begin at the termination of any
hearing or appeal unless the hearing or appeal results in a decision favorable
to the person.
   (f)   (1)   Any person who has been notified by the Chief of the Division of
Parks and Watercraft that the person is prohibited from operating or being in
physical control of a vessel or manipulating any water skis, aquaplane or
similar device and from registering any watercraft in accordance with R.C. §
1547.54, or who has had the registration certificate and tags of the person’s
watercraft impounded pursuant to division (d) of this section, within 20 days
of the notification or impoundment, may file a petition in the municipal court
or the county court, or if the person is a minor in juvenile court, with
jurisdiction over the place at which the arrest occurred, agreeing to pay the
cost of the proceedings and alleging error in the action taken by the Chief of
the Division of Parks and Watercraft under division (d) of this section or
alleging one or more of the matters within the scope of the hearing as provided
in this section, or both. The petitioner shall notify the Chief of the Division
of Parks and Watercraft of the filing of the petition and send the Chief of the
Division of Parks and Watercraft a copy of the petition.
      (2)   The scope of the hearing is limited to the issues of whether the
law enforcement officer had reasonable grounds to believe the petitioner was
operating or in physical control of a vessel or manipulating any water skis,
aquaplane or similar device in violation of R.C. § 1547.11 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, whether the petitioner was placed under arrest,
whether the petitioner refused to submit to the chemical test upon request of
the officer, and whether the petitioner was advised of the consequences of the
petitioner’s refusal.
   (g)   (1)   The Chief of the Division of Parks and Watercraft shall furnish
the court a copy of the affidavit as provided in division (c) of this section
and any other relevant information requested by the court.
      (2)   In hearing the matter and in determining whether the person has
shown error in the decision taken by the Chief of the Division of Parks and
Watercraft as provided in division (d) of this section, the court shall decide
the issue upon the relevant, competent and material evidence submitted by the
Chief of the Division of Parks and Watercraft or the person whose operation,
physical control, manipulation and registration privileges have been suspended.
In the proceedings, the Chief of the Division of Parks and Watercraft shall be
represented by the prosecuting attorney of the county in which the petition is
filed if the petition is filed in a county court or juvenile court, except that
if the arrest occurred within a city or village within the jurisdiction of the
county court in which the petition is filed, the city director of law or
village solicitor of that city or village shall represent the Chief of the
Division of Parks and Watercraft. If the petition is filed in the municipal
court, the Chief of the Division of Parks and Watercraft shall be represented
as provided in R.C. § 1901.34.
      (3)   If the court finds from the evidence submitted that the person has
failed to show error in the action taken by the Chief of the Division of Parks
and Watercraft under division (d) of this section or in one or more of the
matters within the scope of the hearing as provided in division (f) of this
section, or both, the court shall assess the cost of the proceeding against the
person and shall uphold the suspension of the operation, physical control, use
and registration privileges provided in division (d) of this section. If the
court finds that the person has shown error in the action taken by the Chief of
the Division of Parks and Watercraft under division (d) of this section or in
one or more of the matters within the scope of the hearing as provided in
division (f) of this section, or both, the cost of the proceedings shall be
paid out of the county treasury of the county in which the proceedings were
held, Chief of the Division of Parks and Watercraft shall reinstate the
operation, physical control, manipulation and registration privileges of the
person without charge, and the Chief of the Division of Parks and Watercraft
shall return the registration certificate and tags, if impounded, without
charge.
      (4)   The court shall give information in writing of any action taken
under this section to the Chief of the Division of Parks and Watercraft.
   (h)   At the end of any period of suspension or impoundment imposed under
this section, and upon request of the person whose operation, physical control,
use and registration privileges were suspended or whose registration
certificate and tags were impounded, the Chief of the Division of Parks and
Watercraft shall reinstate the person’s operation, physical control,
manipulation and registration privileges by written notice and return the
certificate and tags.
   (i)   No person who has received written notice from the Chief of the
Division of Parks and Watercraft that the person is prohibited from operating
or being in control of a vessel, from manipulating any water skis, aquaplane or
similar device, and from registering a watercraft, or who has had the
registration certificate and tags of the person’s watercraft impounded, in
accordance with division (d) of this section or R.C. § 1547.111(D), shall
operate or be in physical control of a vessel or manipulate any water skis,
aquaplane or similar device for a period of one year following the date of the
person’s alleged violation of R.C. § 1547.11 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 1547.111)
   (j)   Whoever violates division (i) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 1547.99(B))
§ 448.12 INCAPACITATED OPERATORS PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No person shall operate any vessel if the person is so mentally or
physically incapacitated as to be unable to operate the vessel in a safe and
competent manner.
   (b)   No person shall permit any vessel to be operated on the waters in this
municipality in violation of this section.
(R.C. § 1547.12)
   (c)   Whoever violates this section without causing injury to persons or
damage to property is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 1547.99(D))
   (d)   Whoever violates this section causing injury to persons or damage to
property is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 1547.99(E))
§ 448.13 WATER SKIING CONFINED TO SKI ZONES.
   (a)   Except on the waters of the Ohio River or Lake Erie and immediately
connected harbors and bays, any person who rides or attempts to ride upon one
or more water skis, surfboard or similar device, or who engages or attempts to
engage in barefoot skiing, and any person who operates a vessel towing a person
riding or attempting to ride on one or more water skis, surfboard or similar
device, or engaging or attempting to engage in barefoot skiing, shall confine
that activity to the water area within a designated ski zone on all bodies of
water on which a ski zone has been established.
   (b)   On all bodies of water where no specific activity zones have been
established, the activities described in division (a) of this section shall be
confined to areas where the activities are not specifically restricted by this
chapter, R.C. Chapter 1547 and rules.
   (c)   Divisions (a) and (b) of this section do not apply to an activity
described in division (a) of this section if the vessel involved in the
activity is traveling at idle speed in a designated “no wake zone” and the
activity is not being conducted in any of the following areas:
      (1)   Within 300 feet of a gas dock, marina, launch ramp or harbor
entrance;
      (2)   Within a designated anchorage area, swim zone, boat swim zone or
boat camping area;
      (3)   Under a bridge or within 300 feet of a bridge underpass;
      (4)   Any area designated as a “no ski zone”.
   (d)   No person shall operate or permit to be operated any vessel on the
waters in this municipality in violation of this section.
(R.C. § 1547.14)
   (e)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 1547.99(C))
§ 448.14 OBSERVER REQUIRED WHEN TOWING SKIER.
   (a)   Any person who operates a vessel towing any person riding or
attempting to ride upon one or more water skis or upon a surfboard or similar
device, or engaging or attempting to engage in barefoot skiing, on the waters
in this municipality shall have present in the vessel a person or persons other
than the operator, ten years of age or older, who shall at all times observe
the progress of the person being towed. The operator of the towing vessel shall
at all times observe the traffic pattern toward which the vessel is
approaching.
   (b)   No person shall operate or permit to be operated any vessel on the
waters in this municipality in violation of this section.
(R.C. § 1547.15)
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 1547.99(C))
§ 448.15 WATER SKIING AFTER DARK PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No person shall ride or attempt to ride upon water skis, surfboard or
similar device, or engage or attempt to engage in barefoot skiing, or use or
operate any vessel to tow any person thereon on the waters in this municipality
during that period of the day between sunset and sunrise, except upon special
permit issued by the state department, conservancy district or political
subdivision having jurisdiction and control of the water.
(R.C. § 1547.16)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 1547.99(C))
§ 448.16 PERSONAL FLOTATION DEVICE REQUIRED FOR TOWED PERSON.
   (a)   Except as provided in division (b) of this section, no person shall
engage in any form of towed watersports without wearing an adequate and
effective Coast Guard approved wearable personal flotation device specifically
designed for towed watersports, in good and serviceable condition and of
appropriate size, except upon special permit issued by one of the following
persons or entities that manages the waterway:
      (1)   The political subdivision having primary jurisdiction;
      (2)   The administrator of a federal agency;
      (3)   The director of a state agency;
      (4)   The board of directors of a conservancy district;
      (5)   Any other governing body having jurisdiction.
   (b)   Division (a) of this section does not apply to a person engaging or
attempting to engage in barefoot skiing if the person is wearing a wet suit
specifically designed for barefoot skiing that is in good and serviceable
condition and of appropriate size.
   (c)   No operator of a vessel shall allow any person who fails to comply
with division (a) or (b) of this section to engage in any form of towed
watersports.
(R.C. § 1547.18)
   (d)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 1547.99(C))
§ 448.17 SKI JUMPS PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No person shall install or maintain any structure or inclined platform
known as a water ski jump on the waters in this municipality. No person shall
use any such platform or structure for the purpose of water ski jumping, except
upon special permit issued by the state department, conservancy district or
political subdivision having jurisdiction and control over the water.
(R.C. § 1547.19)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 1547.99(C))
§ 448.18 PERMIT FOR SPECIAL WATER EVENTS.
   (a)   No person or organization shall conduct any race, regatta or other
special event upon the waters in this municipality without first obtaining
written permission, upon application not less than 30 days prior to the time of
the proposed race, regatta or event, of the federal agency, state department,
conservancy district or political subdivision having jurisdiction and control
over the waters. Any state department, conservancy district or political
subdivision may suspend its respective rules during a race, regatta or special
event. Nothing in this section shall be construed to mean that the operator of
a vessel competing in a specially authorized race, regatta or special event
shall not attempt to attain high speeds on a marked racing course.
   (b)   On any waters in this municipality over which no federal agency, state
department, conservancy district or political subdivision has jurisdiction and
control, no person or organization shall conduct any race, regatta or other
special event without first obtaining written permission, upon application not
less than 30 days prior to the time of the proposed race, regatta or event, of
the Chief of the Division of Parks and Watercraft. The Chief of the Division of
Parks and Watercraft may, after determining that the public safety will be
adequately protected, grant written permission for holding the race, regatta or
special event. This section does not apply to privately owned lakes or ponds
nor to canoes or rowboats.
(R.C. § 1547.20)
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 1547.99(C))
§ 448.19 SALE OF SINGLE CELLED INFLATABLE VESSELS PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No person shall use or offer for use on the waters in this
municipality any inflatable vessel made of canvas, rubber, synthetic rubber or
vinyl plastic unless the inflatable vessel is of multiple air cell or
compartment construction and is capable of remaining afloat if one air cell or
compartment is punctured or collapsed.
(R.C. § 1547.21)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 1547.99(C))
§ 448.20 SITTING, STANDING, WALKING ON MOVING VESSELS RESTRICTED.
   (a)   No occupant of any vessel underway on the waters in this municipality
shall sit, stand or walk upon any portion of the vessel not specifically
designed for that movement, except when immediately necessary for the safe and
reasonable navigation or operation of the vessel. No operator of a vessel
underway on the waters in this municipality shall allow any occupant of the
vessel to sit, stand or walk on any portion of the vessel underway not
specifically designed for that use, except when immediately necessary for the
safe and reasonable navigation or operation of the vessel.
   (b)   No person shall operate or permit to be operated any vessel on the
waters in this municipality in violation of this section.
(R.C. § 1547.22)
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 1547.99(C))
§ 448.21 ENGINE WARM-UP REQUIRED.
   (a)   The pilot or engineer of any powercraft for hire to carry passengers
shall not permit passengers to come aboard before the engine of the powercraft
has been permitted to run for a minimum of two minutes.
(R.C. § 1547.23)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 1547.99(C))
§ 448.22 PERSONAL FLOTATION DEVICES FOR CHILDREN UNDER TEN.
   (a)   No person shall operate or permit to be operated any vessel under 18
feet in length while there is present in the vessel any person under ten years
of age, not wearing a Coast Guard approved wearable personal flotation device
in good and serviceable condition of appropriate size securely attached to the
person under ten years of age.
(R.C. § 1547.24)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 1547.99(C))
§ 448.23 OPERATION WITHOUT PERSONAL FLOTATION DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No person shall operate or permit to be operated any vessel, other
than a vessel exempted by rules, on the waters in this municipality:
      (1)   That is 16 feet or greater in length without carrying aboard one
wearable personal flotation device for each person aboard and one throwable
personal flotation device;
      (2)   That is less than 16 feet in length, including paddlecraft of any
length, without carrying aboard one wearable personal flotation device for each
person aboard.
   (b)   No person shall operate or permit to be operated any commercial vessel
on the waters in this municipality:
      (1)   That is less than 40 feet in length and is not carrying persons for
hire without carrying aboard at least one wearable personal flotation device
for each person aboard;
      (2)   That is carrying persons for hire or is 40 feet in length or longer
and is not carrying persons for hire without carrying aboard at least one type
one wearable personal flotation device for each person aboard that complies
with all of the following:
         A.   It is designed to support the person wearing the wearable
personal flotation device in the water in an upright or slightly backward
position and provides support to the head so that the face of an unconscious or
exhausted person is held above the water.
         B.   It is capable of turning the person wearing the wearable personal
flotation device, upon entering the water, to a safe flotation position.
         C.   It is capable of being worn inside out.
         D.   It is capable of supporting a minimum of 22 pounds in fresh water
for 48 hours.
         E.   It is a highly visible color.
      (3)   That is 26 feet in length or longer without carrying aboard at
least one throwable personal flotation device in addition to the applicable
requirements of divisions (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section.
   (c)   Each personal flotation device carried aboard a vessel, including a
commercial vessel, pursuant to this section shall be Coast Guard approved and
in good and serviceable condition, of appropriate size for the wearer, and
readily accessible to each person aboard the vessel at all times, and used in
accordance with any requirements on its approval label or in accordance with
requirements in its owner’s manual if the approval label refers to such a
manual.
   (d)   A personal flotation device shall not be used in a manner that is
inconsistent with any limitations or restrictions related to federal approval
under 46 C.F.R. 160 or special instructions for use provided by the
manufacturer. Appropriate use shall be indicated on the label of an approved
personal flotation device with one or more of the following designations:
      (1)   Conditional approval;
      (2)   Performance type;
      (3)   Type one personal flotation device;
      (4)   Type two personal flotation device;
      (5)   Type three personal flotation device;
      (6)   Type four personal flotation device;
      (7)   Type five personal flotation device;
      (8)   Throwable personal flotation device;
      (9)   Wearable personal flotation device.
   (e)   As used in this section, “commercial vessel” means any vessel used in
the carriage of any person or property for a valuable consideration whether
flowing directly or indirectly from the owner, partner, or agent or any other
person interested in the vessel. The phrase does not include any vessel that is
manufactured or used primarily for noncommercial use or that is leased, rented,
or chartered to another for noncommercial use.
(R.C. § 1547.25)
   (f)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 1547.99(F))
§ 448.24 DISTRESS SIGNAL OR FLAG REQUIRED.
   (a)   No person shall operate on the waters of Lake Erie or the immediately
connecting bays, harbors and anchorage areas at any time a vessel that is 16 or
more feet in length or any vessel carrying six or fewer passengers for hire
without carrying Coast Guard approved visual distress signals for both day and
night use.
   (b)   No person shall operate upon the waters of Lake Erie or the
immediately connecting bays, harbors and anchorage areas during the period from
sunset to sunrise according to local time any of the following without carrying
Coast Guard approved visual distress signals for night use:
      (1)   A vessel less than 16 feet in length;
      (2)   A vessel competing in an organized marine parade, race, regatta or
similar event;
      (3)   A manually propelled vessel;
      (4)   A sailboat less than 26 feet in length with completely open
construction and without propulsion machinery.
   (c)   No person shall operate a vessel on the waters in this state other
than Lake Erie or the immediately connecting bays, harbors and anchorage areas
unless the vessel carries either a distress flag at least two feet square and
international orange in color or a Coast Guard approved daytime distress
signal.
   (d)   No person shall display any distress signal unless a vessel or a
person is in distress and in need of help.
   (e)   Divisions (a) and (c) of this section do not apply to any of the
following:
      (1)   Vessels competing in an organized marine parade, race, regatta or
similar event;
      (2)   Manually propelled vessels;
      (3)   Sailboats less than 26 feet in length with completely open
construction and without propulsion machinery.
   (f)   The distress signals required by this section shall be in good and
serviceable condition, readily accessible, and of the type and quantities
required by regulations adopted under 46 U.S.C. 4302, as amended.
   (g)   No person shall operate or permit to be operated any vessel on the
waters in this municipality in violation of this section.
(R.C. § 1547.251)
   (h)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 1547.99(C))
§ 448.25 ANCHOR REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   All watercraft, except sailboats less than 16 feet long having a
cockpit depth of less than 12 inches and except canoes, shall carry an anchor
and line of sufficient weight and length to anchor the watercraft securely. The
Chief of the Division of Parks and Watercraft, by rule, may exempt other types
of watercraft from this section after determining that carrying such an anchor
and line would constitute a hazard.
   (b)   No person shall operate or permit to be operated any watercraft on the
waters in this municipality in violation of this section.
(R.C. § 1547.26)
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 1547.99(C))
§ 448.26 SPECIFICATION FOR FIRE EXTINGUISHERS.
   (a)   Except those powercraft propelled by an electric motor and those less
than 26 feet in length designed for use with an outboard motor, of open
construction, and not carrying passengers for hire, all powercraft shall carry
fire extinguishers as prescribed in this section. The fire extinguishers shall
be capable of extinguishing a burning gasoline fire, shall be so placed as to
be readily accessible and in such condition as to be ready for immediate and
effective use, and shall comply with minimum or higher standards for such
extinguishers then prevailing as prescribed by the United States Coast Guard.
   (b)   Class A and class 1 powercraft shall carry at least one B-1 fire
extinguisher. Class 2 powercraft shall carry at least two B-1 fire
extinguishers or at least one B-2 fire extinguisher. Class 3 powercraft shall
carry at least three B-1 fire extinguishers, or at least one B-1 and one B-
2 fire extinguishers. A B-1 fire extinguisher is one containing a minimum of 1-
1/4 gallons foam, four pounds carbon dioxide, two pounds dry chemical, 2-1/
2 pounds halon, or another extinguishing material approved by the United States
Coast Guard, in a quantity approved by the United States Coast Guard, for such
use. A B-2 fire extinguisher is one containing a minimum of 2-1/2 gallons foam,
15 pounds carbon dioxide, ten pounds dry chemical, ten pounds halon, or another
extinguishing material approved by the United States Coast Guard, in a quantity
approved by the United States Coast Guard, for that use.
   (c)   No person shall operate or permit to be operated on the waters in this
municipality any powercraft that does not comply with this section.
(R.C. § 1547.27)
   (d)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 1547.99(C))
§ 448.27 BACKFIRE FLAME CONTROL DEVICE REQUIRED.
   (a)   Every gasoline engine installed in a vessel after April 25, 1940,
except an outboard motor, shall be equipped with an acceptable device to
control backfire flame. The device shall comply with all of the following:
      (1)   Be securely attached to the air intake with a flame-tight
connection;
      (2)   Be in proper working order;
      (3)   Be Coast Guard approved or comply with either SAE J1928 or UL 1111;
      (4)   Be marked to indicate approval or compliance under division (a)(3)
of this section.
(R.C. § 1547.28)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 1547.99(C))
§ 448.28 VENTILATION REQUIREMENT ON POWERCRAFT.
   (a)   All powercraft using gasoline or other liquid fuel having a flashpoint
of less than 110° F. shall be provided with ventilation as follows:
      (1)   At least two ventilators fitted with cowls or their equivalent for
the purpose of properly and efficiently ventilating the bilges of every engine
and fuel tank compartment in order to remove any inflammable or explosive
gases;
      (2)   Any type of ventilating system approved for use by the United
States Coast Guard;
      (3)   The ventilation of the boat is not required where the greater
portion of the bilges of the engine and fuel tank compartment is open to the
natural atmosphere.
(R.C. § 1547.29)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 1547.99(C))
§ 448.29 ABANDONMENT OF JUNK VESSELS OR OUTBOARD MOTORS.
   (a)   Law Enforcement Official May Order Storage of Vessel or Outboard Motor
Left on Private Property; Towing by Private Dock Owner.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         A.   “Law enforcement agency.” Any organization or unit comprised of
law enforcement officers, as defined in R.C. § 2901.01.
         B.   "Vessel or outboard motor." Excludes an abandoned junk vessel or
outboard motor, as defined in division (d) of this section, or any vessel or
outboard motor under R.C. § 1547.305.
      (2)   A.   The County Sheriff, Chief of Police or other chief of a law
enforcement agency, within the Sheriff’s or Chief’s respective territorial
jurisdiction, upon complaint of any person adversely affected, may order into
storage any vessel or outboard motor that has been left on private property,
other than a private dock or mooring facility or structure, for at least 72
hours without the permission of the person having the right to the possession
of the property. The Sheriff or Chief, upon complaint of the owner of a marine
repair facility or place of storage, may order into storage any vessel or
outboard motor that has been left at the facility or place of storage for a
longer period than that agreed upon. The place of storage shall be designated
by the Sheriff or Chief. When ordering a vessel or motor into storage under
division (a)(2)A. of this section, a Sheriff or Chief, whenever possible, shall
arrange for the removal of the vessel or motor by a private tow truck operator
or towing company.
         B.   1.   Except as provided in division (a)(2)B.4. of this section,
no person, without the consent of the owner or other person authorized to give
consent, shall moor, anchor or tie a vessel or outboard motor at a private dock
or mooring facility or structure owned by another person if the owner has
posted, in a conspicuous manner, a prohibition against the mooring, anchoring
or tying of vessels or outboard motors at the dock, facility or structure by
any person not having the consent of the owner or other person authorized to
give consent.
            2.   If the owner of a private dock or mooring facility or
structure has posted at the dock, facility or structure, in a conspicuous
manner, conditions and regulations under which the mooring, anchoring or tying
of vessels or outboard motors is permitted at the dock, facility or structure,
no person, except as provided in division (a)(2)B.4. of this section, shall
moor, anchor or tie a vessel or outboard motor at the dock, facility or
structure in violation of the posted conditions and regulations.
            3.   The owner of a private dock or mooring facility or structure
may order towed into storage any vessel or outboard motor found moored,
anchored or tied in violation of division (a)(2)B.1. or (a)(2)B.2. of this
section, provided that the owner of the dock, facility or structure posts on it
a sign that states that the dock, facility or structure is private, is visible
from all entrances to the dock, facility or structure, and contains all of the
following information:
               a.   The information specified in division (a)(2)B.1. or (a)
(2)B.2. of this section, as applicable;
               b.   A notice that violators will be towed and that violators
are responsible for paying the cost of the towing;
               c.   The telephone number of the person from whom a towed vessel
or outboard motor may be recovered, and the address of the place to which the
vessel or outboard motor will be taken and the place from which it may be
recovered.
            4.   Divisions (a)(2)B.1. or (a)(2)B.2. of this section do not
prohibit a person from mooring, anchoring or tying a vessel or outboard motor
at a private dock or mooring facility or structure if either of the following
applies:
               a.   The vessel or outboard motor is disabled due to a
mechanical or structural malfunction, provided that the person immediately
removes the vessel or outboard motor from the dock, facility or structure when
the malfunction is corrected or when a reasonable attempt has been made to
correct it;
               b.   Weather conditions are creating an imminent threat to safe
operation of the vessel or outboard motor, provided that the person immediately
removes the vessel or outboard motor from the dock, facility or structure when
the weather conditions permit safe operation of the vessel or outboard motor.
            5.   A person whose vessel or outboard motor is towed into storage
under division (a)(2)B.3. of this section either shall pay the costs of the
towing of the vessel or outboard motor or shall reimburse the owner of the dock
or mooring facility or structure for the costs that the owner incurs in towing
the vessel or outboard motor.
         C.   Subject to division (a)(3) of this section, the owner of a vessel
or motor that has been removed under division (a)(2) of this section may
recover the vessel or motor only in accordance with division (a)(6) of this
section.
      (3)   If the owner or operator of a vessel or outboard motor that has
been ordered into storage under division (a)(2) of this section arrives after
the vessel or motor has been prepared for removal, but prior to its actual
removal from the property, the owner or operator shall be given the opportunity
to pay a fee of not more than one-half of the charge for the removal of vessels
or motors under division (a)(2) of this section that normally is assessed by
the person who has prepared the vessel or motor for removal, in order to obtain
release of the vessel or motor. Upon payment of that fee, the vessel or motor
shall be released to the owner or operator, and upon its release, the owner or
operator immediately shall move it so that it is not on the private property
without the permission of the person having the right to possession of the
property, or is not at the facility or place of storage without the permission
of the owner, whichever is applicable.
      (4)   The County Sheriff, Chief of Police and each other chief of a law
enforcement agency shall maintain a record of vessels or outboard motors that
are ordered into storage under division (a)(2)A. of this section. The record
shall include an entry for each such vessel or motor that identifies the
vessel’s hull identification number or serial number, if any, the vessel’s or
motor’s make, model and color, the location from which it was removed, the date
and time of its removal, the telephone number of the person from whom it may be
recovered, and the address of the place to which it has been taken and from
which it may be recovered. Any information in the record that pertains to a
particular vessel or motor shall be provided to any person who, pursuant to a
statement the person makes either in person or by telephone, is identified as
the owner or operator of the vessel or motor and requests information
pertaining to its location.
      (5)   Any person who registers a complaint that is the basis of a
Sheriff’s or Chief’s order for the removal and storage of a vessel or outboard
motor under division (a)(2)A. of this section shall provide the identity of the
law enforcement agency with which the complaint was registered to any person
who, pursuant to a statement the person makes, is identified as the owner or
operator of the vessel or motor and requests information pertaining to its
location.
      (6)   A.   The owner of a vessel or outboard motor that is ordered into
storage under division (a)(2) of this section may reclaim it upon payment of
any expenses or charges incurred in its removal, in an amount not to exceed
$200, and storage, in an amount not to exceed $5 per 24-hour period, and upon
presentation of proof of ownership, which may be evidenced by a certificate of
title to the vessel or motor, certificate of United States Coast Guard
documentation, or certificate of registration if the vessel or motor is not
subject to titling under R.C. § 1548.01.
         B.   If a vessel or outboard motor that is ordered into storage under
division (a)(2)A. of this section remains unclaimed by the owner for 30 days,
the procedures established by divisions (b) and (c) of this section shall
apply.
         C.   If a vessel or outboard motor ordered into storage under division
(a)(2)B. of this section remains unclaimed for 72 hours after being stored, the
tow truck operator or towing company that removed the vessel or outboard motor
shall provide notice of the removal and storage to the County Sheriff, Chief of
Police or other chief of a law enforcement agency within whose territorial
jurisdiction the vessel or outboard motor had been moored, anchored or tied in
violation of division (a)(2)B. of this section. The notice shall be in writing
and include the vessel’s hull identification number or serial number, if any,
the vessel’s or outboard motor’s make, model and color, the location from which
it was removed, the date and time of its removal, the telephone number of the
person from whom it may be recovered, and the address of the place to which it
has been taken and from which it may be recovered.
            1.   Upon receipt of the notice, the Sheriff or Chief immediately
shall cause a search to be made of the records of the Division of Parks and
Watercraft to ascertain the owner and any lienholder of the vessel or outboard
motor, and, if known, shall send notice to the owner and lienholder, if any, at
the owner’s and lienholder’s last known address by certified mail, return
receipt requested, that the vessel or outboard motor will be declared a
nuisance and disposed of if not claimed not later than 30 days after the date
of the mailing of the notice.
            2.   If the owner or lienholder makes no claim to the vessel or
outboard motor within 30 days of the date of the mailing of the notice, the
Sheriff or Chief shall file with the Clerk of Courts of the county in which the
place of storage is located an affidavit showing compliance with the
requirements of division (a)(6)C. of this section, and the vessel or outboard
motor shall be disposed of in accordance with division (c) of this section.
      (7)   No person shall remove, or cause the removal of, any vessel or
outboard motor from private property other than in accordance with division (a)
(2) of this section or division (b) of this section.
(R.C. § 1547.30)
   (b)   Storage of Vessel or Motor Left in Sunken, Beached, Drifting or Docked
Condition; Notice; Affidavit; Salvage Certificate.
      (1)   The County Sheriff, Chief of Police or other chief of a law
enforcement agency, within his or her respective territorial jurisdiction, or a
State Highway Patrol trooper, upon notification to the Sheriff or Chief of that
action and of the location of the place of storage, may order into storage any
vessel or outboard motor that has been left in a sunken, beached or drifting
condition for any period of time, or in a docked condition, on a public street
or other property open to the public, or upon or within the right-of-way of any
waterway, road or highway, for 48 hours or longer without notification to the
Sheriff or Chief of the reasons for leaving the vessel or motor in any such
place or condition. The Sheriff or Chief shall designate the place of storage
of any vessel or motor ordered removed by him or her.
      (2)   The Sheriff or Chief shall immediately cause a search to be made of
the records of the Division of Parks and Watercraft to ascertain the owner and
any lienholder of a vessel or outboard motor ordered into storage by the
Sheriff or Chief, and, if known, shall send notice to the owner and lienholder,
if any, at his or her last known address by certified mail, return receipt
requested, that the vessel or motor will be declared a nuisance and disposed of
if not claimed within ten days of the date of mailing of the notice. The owner
or lienholder of the vessel or motor may reclaim it upon payment of any
expenses or charges incurred in its removal and storage, and presentation of
proof of ownership, which may be evidenced by a certificate of title to the
vessel or motor, certificate of United States Coast Guard documentation, or
certificate of registration if the vessel or motor is not subject to titling
under R.C. § 1548.01.
      (3)   If the owner or lienholder makes no claim to the vessel or outboard
motor within ten days of the date of mailing of the notice, and if the vessel
or motor is to be disposed of at public auction as provided in division (c) of
this section, the Sheriff or Chief shall file with the Clerk of Courts of the
county in which the place of storage is located an affidavit showing compliance
with the requirements of this division (b). Upon presentation of the affidavit,
the Clerk of Courts shall without charge issue a salvage certificate of title,
free and clear of all liens and encumbrances, to the Sheriff or Chief and shall
send a copy of the affidavit to the Chief of the Division of Parks and
Watercraft. If the vessel or motor is to be disposed of to a marine salvage
dealer or other facility as provided in division (c) of this section, the
Sheriff or Chief shall execute in triplicate an affidavit, as prescribed by the
Chief of the Division of Parks and Watercraft, describing the vessel or motor
and the manner in which it was disposed of, and that all requirements of this
division (b) have been complied with. The Sheriff or Chief shall retain the
original of the affidavit for his or her records and shall furnish two copies
to the marine salvage dealer or other facility. Upon presentation of a copy of
the affidavit by the marine salvage dealer or other facility, the Clerk of
Courts shall issue to such owner a salvage certificate of title, free and clear
of all liens and encumbrances.
      (4)   Whenever the marine salvage dealer or other facility receives an
affidavit for the disposal of a vessel or outboard motor as provided in this
division (b), such owner shall not be required to obtain an Ohio certificate of
title to the vessel or motor in his or her own name if the vessel or motor is
dismantled or destroyed and both copies of the affidavit are delivered to the
Clerk of Courts. Upon receipt of such an affidavit, the Clerk of Courts shall
send one copy of it to the Chief of the Division of Parks and Watercraft.
(R.C. § 1547.301)
   (c)   Disposal of Unclaimed Vessel or Motor.
      (1)   Unclaimed vessels or outboard motors ordered into storage under
division (a)(2) of this section or division (b) of this section shall be
disposed of at the order of the County Sheriff, the Chief of Police or another
chief of a law enforcement agency, in any of the following ways:
         A.   To a marine salvage dealer;
         B.   To any other facility owned, operated or under contract with the
state or the county, municipality, township or other political subdivision;
         C.   To a charitable organization, religious organization or similar
organization not used and operated for profit;
         D.   By sale at public auction by the Sheriff, the Chief or an
auctioneer licensed under R.C. Chapter 4707, after giving notice of the auction
by advertisement, published once a week for two consecutive weeks in a
newspaper of general circulation in the county or as provided in R.C. § 7.16.
      (2)   Any moneys accruing from the disposition of an unclaimed vessel or
motor that are in excess of the expenses resulting from the removal and storage
of the vessel or motor shall be credited to the General Revenue Fund or to the
General Fund of the county, municipality, township or other political
subdivision, as appropriate.
      (3)   As used in this division (c), “charitable organization” has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 1716.01.
(R.C. § 1547.302)
   (d)   Disposal of Abandoned Vessel or Motor.
      (1)   For the purpose of this division and division (e) of this section,
the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
         A.   “Abandoned junk vessel or outboard motor.” Any vessel or outboard
motor meeting all of the following requirements:
            1.   It has been left on private property for at least 72 hours
without the permission of the person having the right to the possession of the
property; left in a sunken, beached or drifting condition for any period of
time; or left in a docked condition, on a public street or other property open
to the public, or upon or within the right-of-way of any waterway, road or
highway, for 48 hours or longer without notification to the County Sheriff, the
Chief of Police, or other chief of a law enforcement agency having territorial
jurisdiction with respect to the location of the vessel or motor, of the
reasons for leaving the vessel or motor in any such place or condition;
            2.   It is three years old or older;
            3.   It is extensively damaged, such damage including but not
limited to any of the following: missing deck, hull, transom, gunwales, motor
or outdrive;
            4.   It is apparently inoperable;
            5.   It has a fair market value of $200 or less.
         B.   “Law enforcement agency.” Any organization or unit comprised of
law enforcement officers, as defined in R.C. § 2901.01.
      (2)   The County Sheriff, Chief of Police or other chief of a law
enforcement agency, within the Sheriff’s or Chief’s respective territorial
jurisdiction, or a State Highway Patrol trooper, upon notification to the
Sheriff or Chief of such action, shall order any abandoned junk vessel or
outboard motor to be photographed by a law enforcement officer. The officer
shall record the make of vessel or motor, the hull identification number or
serial number when available, and shall also detail the damage or missing
equipment to substantiate the value of $200 or less. The Sheriff or Chief shall
thereupon immediately dispose of the abandoned junk vessel or outboard motor to
a marine salvage dealer or other facility owned, operated or under contract to
the state, the county, township or municipality for the destruction of such
vessels or motors. The records and photographs relating to the abandoned junk
vessel or outboard motor shall be retained by the law enforcement agency
ordering the disposition of the vessel or motor for a period of at least two
years. The law enforcement agency shall execute in quadruplicate an affidavit,
as prescribed by the Chief of the Division of Parks and Watercraft, describing
the vessel or motor and the manner in which it was disposed of, and that all
requirements of this section have been complied with, and shall sign and file
the same with the Clerk of Courts of the county in which the vessel or motor
was abandoned. The Clerk of Courts shall retain the original of the affidavit
for the Clerk’s files, shall furnish one copy thereof to the Chief of the
Division of Parks and Watercraft, one copy to the marine salvage dealer or
other facility handling the disposal of the vessel or motor, and one copy to
the law enforcement agency ordering the disposal, who shall file the copy with
the records and photographs relating to the disposal. Any moneys arising from
the disposal of an abandoned junk vessel or outboard motor shall be credited to
the General Revenue Fund, or to the General Fund of the county, township,
municipality or other political subdivision, as appropriate.
      (3)   Notwithstanding division (b) of this section, any vessel or
outboard motor meeting the requirements of divisions (d)(1)A.3. to (d)(1)A.5.
of this section which has remained unclaimed by the owner or lienholder for a
period of ten days or longer following notification as provided in division (b)
of this section may be disposed of as provided in this division (d).
(R.C. § 1547.303)
   (e)   Abandonment of Vessel or Motor Without Notice to Law Enforcement
Official Prohibited.
      (1)   No person shall purposely leave an abandoned junk vessel or
outboard motor on private property for more than 72 hours without the
permission of the person having the right to the possession of the property; in
a sunken, beached or drifting condition for any period of time; or in a docked
condition, on a public street or other property open to the public, or upon or
within the right-of- way of any waterway, road or highway, for 48 hours or
longer without notification to the County Sheriff, Chief of Police or other
chief of a law enforcement agency having territorial jurisdiction with respect
to the location of the vessel or motor, of the reasons for leaving the vessel
or motor in any such place or condition.
      (2)   For purposes of this division (e), the fact that an abandoned junk
vessel or outboard motor has been so left without permission or notification is
prima facie evidence of abandonment.
      (3)   Nothing in this section or R.C. § 1547.30, 1547.301 and 1547.303
invalidates the provisions of any ordinance of the municipality regulating or
prohibiting the abandonment of vessels or outboard motors on waterways,
beaches, docks, streets, highways, public property or private property within
the boundaries of the municipality.
(R.C. § 1547.304)
   (f)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates any provision of this section for which no penalty
is otherwise provided is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 1547.99(C))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (a)(7) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 1547.99(F))
      (3)   Whoever violates division (e) of this section guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree and also shall be assessed any costs incurred
by the state or a county, township, municipal corporation, or other political
subdivision in disposing of an abandoned junk vessel or outboard motor, less
any money accruing to the state, county, township, municipal corporation or
other political subdivision from that disposal.
(R.C. § 1547.99(H))
Statutory reference:
   Alternate procedure to obtain certificate of title for unclaimed vessel or
outboard motor, see R.C. § 1547.305
§ 448.30 EXHAUST MUFFLER REQUIRED; NOISE LEVELS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (a)   Every powercraft operated on the waters in this municipality shall be
equipped at all times with a muffler or a muffler system that is in good
working order, in constant operation, and effectively installed to prevent
excessive or unusual noise.
   (b)   (1)   No person shall operate or give permission for the operation of
a powercraft on the waters in this municipality in such a manner as to exceed a
noise level of 90 decibels on the “A” scale when subjected to a stationary
sound level test as prescribed by SAE J2005.
      (2)   No person shall operate or give permission for the operation of a
powercraft on the waters in this municipality in such a manner as to exceed a
noise level of 75 decibels on the “A” scale measured as specified by SAE J1970.
Measurement of a noise level of not more than 75 decibels on the “A” scale of a
powercraft in operation does not preclude the conducting of a stationary sound
level test as prescribed by SAE J2005.
   (c)   No person shall operate or give permission for the operation of a
powercraft on the waters in this municipality that is equipped with an altered
muffler or muffler cutout, or operate or give permission for the operation of a
powercraft on the waters in this municipality in any manner that bypasses or
otherwise reduces or eliminates the effectiveness of any muffler or muffler
system installed in accordance with this section, unless the applicable
mechanism has been permanently disconnected or made inoperable.
   (d)   No person shall remove, alter or otherwise modify in any way a muffler
or muffler system in a manner that will prevent it from being operated in
accordance with this section.
   (e)   No person shall manufacture, sell or offer for sale a powercraft that
is not equipped with a muffler or muffler system that prevents noise levels in
excess of those established in division (b)(1) of this section.
   (f)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   A powercraft that is designed, manufactured and sold for the sole
purpose of competing in racing events. The exception established under this
division (f)(1) shall be documented in each sale agreement and shall be
acknowledged formally by the signatures of the buyer and the seller. The buyer
and the seller shall maintain copies of the sale agreement. A copy of the sale
agreement shall be kept aboard the powercraft when it is operated. A powercraft
to which the exception established under this division (f)(1) applies shall be
operated on the waters in this municipality only in accordance with division
(f)(2) of this section.
      (2)   A powercraft that is actually participating in a sanctioned racing
event or in tune- up periods for a sanctioned racing event on the waters in
this municipality and that is being operated in accordance with this division
(f)(2). For the purposes of this division (f)(2), a “sanctioned racing event”
is a racing event that is conducted in accordance with §
448.18 or R.C. § 1547.20 or that is approved by the United States Coast Guard.
The operator of a powercraft that is operated on the waters in this
municipality for the purpose of a sanctioned racing event shall comply with §
448.18 and R.C. § 1547.20 and requirements established under it or with
requirements established by the Coast Guard, as appropriate. Failure to comply
subjects the operator to this section.
      (3)   A powercraft that is being operated on the waters in this
municipality by or for a boat or engine manufacturer for the purpose of
testing, development or both and that complies with this division (f)(3). The
operator of such a powercraft shall have aboard at all times and shall produce
on demand of a law enforcement officer a current, valid letter issued by the
Chief of the Division of Parks and Watercraft in accordance with rules adopted
under R.C. § 1547.31(I)(1). Failure to produce the letter subjects the operator
to this section.
   (g)   A law enforcement officer who is trained in accordance with rules
adopted under R.C. § 1547.31(I)(2) and who has reason to believe that a
powercraft is not in compliance with the noise levels established in this
section may direct the operator of the powercraft to submit it to an on-site
test to measure the level of the noise emitted by the powercraft. The operator
shall comply with that direction. The officer may remain aboard the powercraft
during the test at the officer’s discretion. If the level of the noise emitted
by the powercraft exceeds the noise levels established in this section, the
officer may direct the operator to take immediate and reasonable measures to
correct the violation, including returning the powercraft to a mooring and
keeping it at the mooring until the violation is corrected or ceases.
   (h)   A law enforcement officer who conducts powercraft noise level tests
pursuant to this section shall be trained to do so in accordance with rules
adopted under R.C. § 1547.31(I)(2).
(R.C. § 1547.31(A) - (H))
   (i)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree on a first offense. On each subsequent offense, the person is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 1547.99(J))
§ 448.31 SAFETY EQUIPMENT ON RENTAL VESSELS.
   (a)   No person who lets vessels for hire, or the agent or employee thereof,
shall rent, lease, charter or otherwise permit the use of a vessel, unless the
person provides the vessel with the equipment required under R.C. § 1547.25,
1547.251, 1547.26, 1547.27, 1547.28, 1547.29 and 1547.31 and rules, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, regarding the equipment of
vessels, and complies with the requirements of R.C. § 1547.24, 1547.40,
1547.53, 1547.57, and either 1547.54 or 1547.542, and rules, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, to implement and enforce those
sections.
(R.C. § 1547.38)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 1547.99(F))
§ 448.32 CAPACITY PLATE.
   (a)   Required; Display.
      (1)   No person, after January 1, 1977, shall manufacture, sell or offer
for sale any watercraft propelled by machinery as its principal source of
power, or watercraft designed to be manually propelled, less than 20 feet in
length, and designed to carry two or more persons, manufactured after that
date, unless a capacity plate containing the correct information, as prescribed
by regulations adopted by the United States Coast Guard, is firmly attached to
the watercraft. The capacity plate shall be attached in such a location that it
is clearly legible from the position designed or intended to be occupied by the
operator when the watercraft is underway.
      (2)   No person shall operate or permit to be operated on the waters in
this municipality watercraft for which a capacity plate is required under this
section unless the capacity plate is attached.
      (3)   No person shall alter, remove or deface any information contained
on the capacity plate unless the manufacturer has altered the watercraft in
such a way that would require a change in the information contained on the
capacity plate.
      (4)   As used in this division (a), “manufacture” means to construct or
assemble a watercraft, or to alter a watercraft in such a manner as to affect
or change its weight capacity or occupant capacity.
(R.C. § 1547.39)
   (b)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   No person shall operate or permit to be operated on the waters in
this municipality a watercraft to which a capacity plate is attached if the
total load exceeds the weight capacity indicated on the capacity plate, if the
number of persons aboard exceeds the occupant capacity indicated on the
capacity plate, or if the horsepower of any attached outboard motor exceeds the
maximum horsepower indicated on the capacity plate.
      (2)   When no capacity plate exists, no person shall operate or permit to
be operated on the waters in this municipality a watercraft if a reasonably
prudent person would believe that either of the following circumstances
applies:
         A.   The total load aboard the watercraft has associated with it a
risk of physical harm to persons or property;
         B.   The total horsepower of any inboard engine or attached outboard
motor has associated with it a risk of physical harm to persons or property.
(R.C. § 1547.40)
   (c)   Penalty. Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 1547.99(F))
§ 448.33 DWELLINGS: SANITARY SYSTEMS.
   (a)   Watercraft Dwelling Unlawful If a Nuisance; Exception. No person shall
use any vessel for the purpose of establishing or maintaining a dwelling which
creates a nuisance of either permanent or temporary nature on any of the waters
in this state except Lake Erie, the Muskingum River, the Ohio River, and the
immediately connected harbors and anchorage facilities or in such other areas
as may be designated for the purpose.
(R.C. § 1547.32)
    (b)   Discharging Sanitary Systems Prohibited; Exception. Except on the
waters of Lake Erie, the Muskingum River or the Ohio River, no person shall
launch, moor, dock, use, operate or permit to be operated on any of the waters
in this state any vessel that contains a sink, toilet or sanitary system that
is capable of discharging urine, fecal matter, contents of a chemical commode,
kitchen wastes, laundry wastes, slop sink drainage or other household wastes
into the waters in this state. Such a sink, toilet or sanitary system shall be
removed, sealed or made to drain into a tank or reservoir that can be carried
or pumped ashore for disposal in a sewage treatment works approved by the
Director of Environmental Protection.
(R.C. § 1547.33)
   (c)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor
(R.C. § 1547.99(C))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 1547.99(F))
§ 448.34 PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE OF NEGLIGENCE.
   Violations of §§
448.02 to
448.33 and
448.39(a) and/or R.C. § 1547.02 to 1547.36 which result in injury to persons or
damage to property shall constitute prima facie evidence of negligence in a
civil action.
(R.C. § 1547.34)
§ 448.35 REQUIREMENTS FOR OPERATING PERSONAL WATERCRAFT.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall operate or permit the operation of a personal
watercraft unless each person on the watercraft is wearing a Coast Guard
approved wearable personal flotation device used in compliance with
manufacturer labeling.
      (2)   A person operating a personal watercraft that is equipped by the
manufacturer with a lanyard type engine cutoff switch shall attach the lanyard
to the person, the person’s clothing, or the personal flotation device as
appropriate for the specific watercraft.
      (3)   No person shall operate a personal watercraft at any time between
sunset and sunrise.
      (4)   No person who owns a personal watercraft or who has charge over or
control of a personal watercraft shall authorize or knowingly permit the
personal watercraft to be operated in violation of this chapter or R.C. Chapter
1547.
   (b)   This section does not apply to a person who is participating in a
regatta, race, marine parade, tournament or exhibition that is operated in
accordance with §
448.18 or R.C. § 1547.20 or that is United States Coast Guard approved.
(R.C. § 1547.41)
   (c)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 1547.99(C))
§ 448.36 NUMBERING.
   (a)   Every watercraft operated on the waters in this municipality shall be
numbered by this state in accordance with federal law or a federally approved
numbering system of another state. A watercraft numbered by this state shall
display the number on the watercraft as provided in R.C. § 1547.57. Watercraft
exempt from numbering by the state are:
      (1)   Those currently documented by the United States Coast Guard or its
successor;
      (2)   Those whose principal use is not on the waters in this state and
that have not been used within this state for more than 60 days and have a
valid number assigned under a federally approved numbering system by another
state if the number is displayed in accordance with the requirements of that
system and the certificate of number is available for inspection whenever the
watercraft is on waters in this state;
      (3)   Those from a country other than the United States, temporarily
using the waters in this state;
      (4)   Those whose owner is the United States, a state or a political
subdivision of a state, that fit either of the following descriptions, and that
are clearly identifiable as such:
         A.   A powercraft that principally is used for governmental purposes
other than recreational purposes;
         B.   A watercraft other than a powercraft.
      (5)   A ship’s lifeboat. As used in this division, “lifeboat” means a
watercraft that is held aboard another vessel and used exclusively for
emergency purposes.
      (6)   Those that have been exempted from numbering by the Chief of the
Division of Parks and Watercraft after the Chief of the Division of Parks and
Watercraft has found that the numbering of the watercraft will not materially
aid in their identification and, if an agency of the United States has a
numbering system applicable to the watercraft, after the Chief of the Division
of Parks and Watercraft has further found that they also would be exempt from
numbering by the United States government if they were subject to the federal
law;
      (7)   Those temporarily using the waters in this state under a waiver
issued by the Chief of the Division of Parks and Watercraft to an organization
sponsoring a race, regatta or special event. The Chief of the Division of Parks
and Watercraft may issue a waiver upon application by the sponsoring
organization at least 15 days before the date of the proposed race, regatta or
special event. The waiver shall be effective for ten days including the day or
days of the proposed race, regatta or special event. Such a waiver does not
obviate the need for compliance with §
448.18 or R.C. § 1547.20;
      (8)   Canoes, rowboats, and inflatable watercraft that are registered
under R.C. § 1547.54 and that an owner, in accordance with this division,
chooses not to have numbered under this section. An owner of a canoe, rowboat
or inflatable watercraft may choose to do either of the following:
         A.   Have it numbered under this section, pay a lesser registration
fee under R.C. § 1547.54(A)(2)(a), and obtain square tags under R.C. § 1547.57
(A);
         B.   Not have it numbered under this section, pay a higher
registration fee under R.C. § 1547.54(A)(2)(b), and obtain a rectangular tag
under R.C. § 1547.57(C).
(R.C. § 1547.53)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 1547.99(C))
§ 448.37 REGISTRATION.
   (a)   (1)   Except as provided in division (a)(2) or (b) of this section, no
person shall operate or give permission for the operation of any watercraft on
the waters in this municipality unless the watercraft is registered in the name
of the current owner in accordance with R.C. § 1547.54, and the registration is
valid and in effect.
      (2)   A.   On and after January 1, 1999, if a watercraft that is required
to be issued a certificate of title under R.C. Chapter 1548 is transferred to a
new owner, it need not be registered under R.C. § 1547.54 for 60 days following
the date of the transfer, provided that the new owner purchases a temporary
watercraft registration under division (a) of this section or holds a bill of
sale from a watercraft dealer.
         B.   For the purposes of division (a)(2) of this section, a temporary
watercraft registration or a bill of sale from a watercraft dealer shall
contain at least all of the following information:
            1.   The hull identification number or serial number of the
watercraft;
            2.   The make of the watercraft;
            3.   The length of the watercraft;
            4.   The type of propulsion, if any;
            5.   The state in which the watercraft principally is operated;
            6.   The name of the owner;
            7.   The address of the owner, including the zip code;
            8.   The signature of the owner;
            9.   The date of purchase;
            10.   A notice to the owner that the temporary watercraft
registration expires 60 days after the date of purchase of the watercraft or
that the watercraft cannot be operated on the waters in this state solely under
the bill of sale beginning 60 days after the date of purchase of the
watercraft, as applicable.
      (3)   A person may purchase a temporary watercraft registration from the
Chief of the Division of Parks and Watercraft or from an authorized agent
designated under R.C. § 1547.54. The Chief of the Division of Parks and
Watercraft shall furnish forms for temporary watercraft registrations to
authorized agents. In addition to completing the registration form with the
information specified in division (a)(2) of this section, the person shall pay
one of the applicable fees required under R.C. § 1547.54(A)(2)(a) to (g) as
provided in that section. Moneys received for the payment of temporary
watercraft registrations shall be deposited to the credit of the Waterways
Safety Fund created in R.C. § 1547.75.
      (4)   In addition to the applicable fee required under division (a)(3) of
this section, the Chief of the Division of Parks and Watercraft or an
authorized agent shall charge an additional writing fee of $3 for a temporary
watercraft registration that the Chief of the Division of Parks and Watercraft
or the authorized agent issues. When the temporary watercraft registration is
issued by an authorized agent, the agent may retain the additional writing fee.
When the temporary watercraft registration is issued by the Chief of the
Division of Parks and Watercraft, the additional writing fee shall be deposited
to the credit of the Waterways Safety Fund.
      (5)   A person who purchases a temporary watercraft registration for a
watercraft and who subsequently applies for a registration certificate under
R.C. § 1547.54 need not pay the fee required under R.C. § 1547.54(A)(2) for the
initial registration certificate issued for that watercraft, provided that at
the time of application for the registration certificate, the person furnishes
proof of payment for the temporary watercraft registration.
      (6)   A person who purchases a temporary watercraft registration, who
subsequently applies for a registration certificate under R.C. § 1547.54, and
who is exempt from payment for the registration certificate under R.C. §
1547.54(P), may apply to the Chief of the Division of Parks and Watercraft for
a refund of the amount paid for the temporary watercraft registration at the
time that the person applies for a registration certificate. The Chief of the
Division of Parks and Watercraft shall refund that amount upon issuance to the
person of a registration certificate.
      (7)   All records of the Division of Parks and Watercraft made or
maintained for the purposes of divisions (a)(2) to (a)(8) of this section are
public records. The records shall be available for inspection at reasonable
hours and in a manner that is compatible with normal operations of the
division.
      (8)   Pursuant to R.C. § 1546.04(C)(2), the Chief of the Division of
Parks and Watercraft may adopt rules establishing all of the following:
         A.   Record-keeping requirements governing the issuance of temporary
watercraft registrations and the use of bills of sale from watercraft dealers
for the purposes of division (a)(2) of this section;
         B.   Procedures and requirements for the refund of fees under division
(a)(6) of this section;
         C.   Any other procedures and requirements necessary for the
administration and enforcement of divisions (a)(2) to (a)(8) of this section.
   (b)   All of the following watercraft are exempt from registration:
      (1)   Those that are exempt from numbering by the state under R.C. §
1547.53(B) to (G);
      (2)   Those that have been issued a commercial documentation by the
United States Coast Guard or its successor and are used exclusively for
commercial purposes;
      (3)   Those that have been documented by the United States Coast Guard or
its successor as temporarily transiting, whose principal use is not on the
waters in this state, and that have not been used within this state for more
than 60 days.
   (c)   No person shall operate a watercraft documented by the United States
Coast Guard or its successor unless the certificate of documentation is valid,
is on the watercraft for which it has been issued, and is available for
inspection whenever the watercraft is in operation. In accordance with 46
C.F.R. 67, as amended, the watercraft shall display the official number, the
vessel name and the home port listed on the certificate of documentation.
   (d)   (1)   For the purposes of this section and R.C. § 1547.53, a
watercraft is principally using the waters in this state if any of the
following applies:
         A.   The owner resides in this state and declares that the watercraft
principally is using the waters in this state;
         B.   The owner resides in another state but declares that the
watercraft principally is using the waters in this state;
         C.   The watercraft is registered in another state or documented by
the United States Coast Guard and is used within this state for more than 60
days regardless of whether it has been assigned a seasonal or permanent mooring
at any public or private docking facility in this state.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (d)(1)C. of this section, a person on
active duty in the armed forces of the United States may register a watercraft
in the person’s state of permanent residence in lieu of registering it in this
state regardless of the number of days that the watercraft is used in this
state.
(R.C. § 1547.531)
   (e)   No person shall operate a watercraft in this municipality if it
displays an identification number or registration decal that is any of the
following:
      (1)   Fictitious;
      (2)   A counterfeit or an unlawfully made copy of any identification
number or registration decal;
      (3)   An identification number or registration decal that belongs to
another watercraft.
(R.C. 1547.533)
   (f)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 1547.99(C))
§ 448.38 ALTERING OF SERIAL NUMBERS; FALSE INFORMATION PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No person shall deface or alter any serial number, model designation
or other identifying mark on any watercraft or motor as placed thereon by the
manufacturer thereof, or remove, deface or alter the registration number of any
watercraft as the registration number appears on the bow thereof except by
specific order of the Chief of the Division of Parks and Watercraft.
   (b)   No person shall give purposely false information concerning any
watercraft or motor when applying for registration of the watercraft. Any
certificate issued which is found to be based on such false information is
void.
(R.C. § 1547.66)
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 1547.99(B))
§ 448.39 ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   (a)   Operator to Stop and Furnish Information upon Accident or Collision.
      (1)   In case of accident to or collision with persons or property on the
waters of this municipality, due to the operation of any vessel, the operator
having knowledge of the accident or collision shall immediately stop the vessel
at the scene of the accident or collision, to the extent that it is safe and
practical, and shall remain at the scene of the accident or collision until he
or she has given his or her name and address and, if he or she is not the
owner, the name and address of the owner of the vessel, together with the
registration number of the vessel, if any, to any person injured in the
accident or collision or to the operator, occupant, owner or attendant of any
vessel damaged in the accident or collision, or to any law enforcement officer
at the scene of the accident or collision.
      (2)   If the injured person is unable to comprehend and record the
information required to be given by this section, the other operator involved
in the accident or collision shall forthwith notify the nearest law enforcement
agency having authority concerning the location of the accident or collision,
and his or her name, address and the registration number, if any, of the vessel
he or she was operating, and then remain at the scene of the accident or
collision or at the nearest location from which notification is possible until
a law enforcement officer arrives, unless removed from the scene by an
emergency vehicle operated by the state or a political subdivision or by an
ambulance.
      (3)   If the accident or collision is with an unoccupied or unattended
vessel, the operator so colliding with the vessel shall securely attach the
information required to be given in this section, in writing, to a conspicuous
place in or on the unoccupied or unattended vessel.
(R.C. § 1547.10)
   (b)   Duties after Collision or Accident; Accident Reports.
      (1)   The operator of a vessel involved in a collision, accident or other
casualty, so far as the operator can do so without serious danger to the
operator’s own vessel, crew and passengers, shall render to other persons
affected by the collision, accident or other casualty such assistance as may be
practicable and as may be necessary in order to save them from or minimize any
danger caused by the collision, accident or other casualty. The operator also
shall give the operator’s name, address and identification of the operator’s
vessel in writing to any person injured and to the owner of any property
damaged in the collision, accident or other casualty.
      (2)   Any person who renders assistance at the scene of a collision,
accident or other casualty involving a vessel is not liable in a civil action
for damages or injury to persons or property resulting from any act or omission
in rendering assistance or in providing or arranging salvage, towage, medical
treatment or other assistance, except that the person is liable for willful or
wanton misconduct in rendering assistance. Nothing in this section precludes
recovery from any tortfeasor causing a collision, accident or other casualty of
damages caused or aggravated by the rendering of assistance.
      (3)   In the case of collision, accident or other casualty involving a
vessel, the operator thereof, if the collision, accident or other casualty
results in loss of life, personal injury requiring medical treatment beyond
first aid, or damage to property in excess of $1,000, or the total loss of a
vessel, shall file with the Chief of the Division of Parks and Watercraft a
full description of the collision, accident or other casualty on a form
prescribed by the Chief of the Division of Parks and Watercraft.
      (4)   If the operator of the vessel involved in a collision, accident or
other casualty is incapacitated, the investigating law enforcement officer
shall file the required form as prescribed by the Chief of the Division of
Parks and Watercraft.
(R.C. § 1547.59)
   (c)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 1547.99(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 1547.99(C))
§ 448.40 ENFORCEMENT.
   Every Sheriff, Deputy Sheriff, Marshal, Deputy Marshal, member of the
organized police department of any municipal corporation, police constable of
any township, wildlife officer, natural resources officer, conservancy district
police officer and other law enforcement officer, within the area of any such
law enforcement officer’s authority, may enforce this chapter, R.C. Chapter
1547 and rules and, in the exercise thereof, may stop and board any vessel
subject to this chapter and R.C. Chapter 1547, and rules.
(R.C. § 1547.63)
§ 448.41 CERTIFICATE OF TITLE; EXCEPTIONS.
   (a)   No person, except as provided in §
448.42, shall sell or otherwise dispose of a watercraft or outboard motor
without delivering to the purchaser or transferee a physical certificate of
title with an assignment on it as is necessary to show title in the purchaser
or transferee; nor shall any person purchase or otherwise acquire a watercraft
or outboard motor without obtaining a certificate of title for it in the
person’s name in accordance with R.C. Chapter 1548; however, a purchaser may
take possession of and operate a watercraft or outboard motor on the waters in
this state without a certificate of title for a period not exceeding 30 days if
the purchaser has been issued and has in the purchaser’s possession a dealer’s
dated bill of sale, or in the case of a casual sale, a notarized bill of sale.
(R.C. § 1548.03)
   (b)   Division (a) of this section and §§
448.42 and
448.43 do not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   A watercraft covered by a marine document in effect that has been
assigned to it by the United States government pursuant to federal law;
      (2)   A watercraft from a country other than the United States
temporarily using the waters in this state;
      (3)   A watercraft whose owner is the United States, a state or a
political subdivision of a state;
      (4)   A ship’s lifeboat. As used in this division (b)(4), “lifeboat”
means a watercraft that is held aboard another vessel and used exclusively for
emergency purposes.
      (5)   A canoe;
      (6)   A watercraft less than 14 feet in length without a permanently
affixed mechanical means of propulsion;
      (7)   A watercraft less than 14 feet in length with a permanently fixed
mechanical means of propulsion of less than ten horsepower as determined by the
manufacturer’s rating;
      (8)   Outboard motors of less than ten horsepower as determined by the
manufacturer’s rating.
   (c)   The various certificates, applications and assignments necessary to
provide certificates of title for watercraft and outboard motors shall be made
on appropriate forms approved by the Chief of the Division of Parks and
Watercraft.
(R.C. § 1548.01(B), (C))
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
§ 448.42 MANUFACTURER’S OR IMPORTER’S CERTIFICATE.
   (a)   No manufacturer, importer, dealer or other person shall sell or
otherwise dispose of a new watercraft or outboard motor to a dealer to be used
by the dealer for purposes of display and resale without delivering to the
dealer a manufacturer’s or importer’s certificate executed in accordance with
this section and with such assignments on it as are necessary to show title in
the name of the purchaser. No dealer shall purchase or acquire a new watercraft
or outboard motor without obtaining from the seller the manufacturer’s or
importer’s certificate.
   (b)   A manufacturer’s or importer’s certificate of the origin of a
watercraft or outboard motor shall contain the following information in such
form and together with such further information as the Chief of the Division of
Parks and Watercraft may require:
      (1)   Description of the watercraft, including the make, year, length,
series or model, if any, body type, hull identification number or serial
number, and make, manufacturer’s serial number and horsepower of any inboard
motor or motors; or description of the outboard motor, including the make,
year, series or model, if any, manufacturer’s serial number, and horsepower;
      (2)   Certification of the date of transfer of the watercraft or outboard
motor to a distributor or dealer or other transferee, and the name and address
of the transferee;
      (3)   Certification that this was the first transfer of the new
watercraft or outboard motor in ordinary trade and commerce;
      (4)   Signature and address of a representative of the transferor.
   (c)   An assignment of a manufacturer’s or importer’s certificate before a
notary public or other officer empowered to administer oaths shall be printed
on the reverse side of the manufacturer’s or importer’s certificate in the form
to be prescribed by the Chief of the Division of Parks and Watercraft. The
assignment form shall include the name and address of the transferee, a
certification that the watercraft or outboard motor is new, and a warranty that
the title at the time of delivery is subject only to such liens and
encumbrances as are set forth and described in full in the assignment.
(R.C. § 1548.05)
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
§ 448.43 PROHIBITIONS.
   (a)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate in this municipality a watercraft for which a certificate
of title is required or a watercraft powered by an outboard motor for which a
certificate of title is required without having the certificate or a valid
temporary permit and number in accordance with R.C. Chapter 1548 or, if a
physical certificate of title has not been issued for it, operate the
watercraft or outboard motor in this state knowing that the ownership
information relating to the watercraft or outboard motor has not has not been
entered into the automated title processing system by a Clerk of a Court of
Common Pleas;
      (2)   Operate in this municipality a watercraft for which a certificate
of title is required, or a watercraft powered by an outboard motor for which a
certificate of title is required, upon which the certificate of title has been
canceled;
      (3)   Fail to surrender any certificate of title upon cancellation of it
by the Chief of the Division of Parks and Watercraft and notice of the
cancellation as prescribed in R.C. Chapter 1548;
      (4)   Fail to surrender the certificate of title to a Clerk of a Court of
Common Pleas as provided in R.C. Chapter 1548, in case of the destruction or
dismantling or change of a watercraft or outboard motor in such respect that it
is not the watercraft or outboard motor described in the certificate of title;
      (5)   Violate any provision of R.C. Chapter 1548 for which no penalty is
otherwise provided, or any lawful rules adopted pursuant to R.C. Chapter 1548;
      (6)   Operate in this municipality a watercraft or outboard motor knowing
that the certificate of title to or ownership of the watercraft or outboard
motor as otherwise reflected in the automated title processing system has been
canceled.
(R.C. § 1548.18)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 1548.99(A))
§ 448.44 PERMANENTLY DISPLAYED HULL IDENTIFICATION NUMBER.
   (a)   A watercraft constructed on or after November 1, 1972, shall have a
hull identification number permanently displayed and affixed to it in
accordance with federal law.
   (b)   A watercraft constructed before November 1, 1972, shall have a hull
identification number assigned to it by the Chief of the Division of Parks and
Watercraft at the time of registration, at the time of application for title,
after transfer of ownership, or at the time of a change to this state as the
principal location of operation. The number shall be permanently displayed and
affixed as prescribed by rules.
   (c)   A person who builds a watercraft or imports a watercraft from another
county for personal use and not for the purpose of sale shall request a hull
identification number from the Chief of the Division of Parks and Watercraft
and permanently display and affix the number as prescribed by rules.
   (d)   No person shall operate or permit to be operated any watercraft on the
waters in this state in violation of this section.
(R.C. § 1547.65)
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 1547.99(F))
§ 448.45 FIREARMS OFFENSES; SIGNALING DEVICES.
   (a)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Active duty,” “concealed handgun license,” “firearm,” “handgun,”
and “valid concealed handgun license.” Have the same meanings as in R.C. §
2923.11.
      (2)   “Unloaded.” Has the same meaning meanings as in R.C. § 2923.16(K)
(5) and (K)(6), except that all references in the definition in R.C. § 2923.16
(K)(5) to “vehicle” shall be construed for purposes of this section to be
references to “vessel”.
   (b)   No person shall knowingly discharge a firearm while in or on a vessel.
   (c)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a loaded firearm in a
vessel in a manner that the firearm is accessible to the operator or any
passenger.
   (d)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a firearm in a vessel
unless it is unloaded and is carried in one of the following ways:
      (1)   In a closed package, box or case;
      (2)   In plain sight with the action opened or the weapon stripped, or,
if the firearm is of a type on which the action will not stay open or that
cannot easily be stripped, in plain sight.
   (e)   (1)   The affirmative defenses authorized in R.C. § 2923.12(D)(1) and
(D)(2) are affirmative defenses to a charge under division (c) or (d) of this
section that involves a firearm other than a handgun. It is an affirmative
defense to a charge under division (c) or (d) of this section of transporting
or having a firearm of any type, including a handgun, in a vessel that the
actor transported or had the firearm in the vessel for any lawful purpose and
while the vessel was on the actor’s own property, provided that this
affirmative defense is not available unless the actor, prior to arriving at the
vessel on the actor’s own property, did not transport or possess the firearm in
the vessel or in a motor vehicle in a manner prohibited by this section or R.C.
§ 2923.16(B) or (C) while the vessel was being operated on a waterway that was
not on the actor’s own property or while the motor vehicle was being operated
on a street, highway or other public or private property used by the public for
vehicular traffic.
      (2)   No person who is charged with a violation of division (c) or (d) of
this section shall be required to obtain a license or temporary emergency
license to carry a concealed handgun under R.C. § 2923.125 or 2923.1213 as a
condition for the dismissal of the charge.
   (f)   Divisions (b), (c) and (d) of this section do not apply to the
possession or discharge of a United States Coast Guard approved signaling
device required to be carried aboard a vessel under R.C. § 1547.251 when the
signaling device is possessed or used for the purpose of giving a visual
distress signal. No person shall knowingly transport or possess any signaling
device of that nature in or on a vessel in a loaded condition at any time other
than immediately prior to the discharge of the signaling device for the purpose
of giving a visual distress signal.
   (g)   No person shall operate or permit to be operated any vessel on the
waters in this municipality in violation of this section.
   (h)   (1)   This section does not apply to officers any of the following:
         A.   An officer, agent or employee of this or any other state or of
the United States, or to a law enforcement officer, when authorized to carry or
have loaded or accessible firearms in a vessel and acting within the scope of
the officer’s, agent’s or employee’s duties;
         B.   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry or have loaded or accessible firearms in a vessel, and who is subject to
and in compliance with the requirements of R.C. § 109.801, unless the
appointing authority of the person has expressly specified that the exemption
provided in this division (h)(1)B. does not apply to the person;
         C.   Any person legally engaged in hunting.
      (2)   Divisions (c) and (d) of this section do not apply to a person who
transports or possesses a handgun in a vessel and who has been issued a
concealed handgun license that is valid at the time of that transportation or
possession or who, at the time of that transportation or possession, is an
active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is carrying a
valid military identification card and documentation of successful completion
of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements described
in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), unless the person knowingly is in a place on the
vessel described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
   (i)   If a law enforcement officer stops a vessel for a violation of this
section or any other law enforcement purpose, if any person on the vessel
surrenders a firearm to the officer, either voluntarily or pursuant to a
request or demand of the officer, and if the officer does not charge the person
with a violation of this section or arrest the person for any offense, the
person is not otherwise prohibited by law from possessing the firearm, and the
firearm is not contraband, the officer shall return the firearm to the person
at the termination of the stop.
   (j)   The provisions of R.C. § 2923.16(L) applies with respect to division
(a)(2) of this section, except that all references in R.C. § 2923.16(L) to
“vehicle”, to “this chapter”, or to “division (K)(5)(a) or (b) of this section”
shall be construed for purposes of this section to be, respectively, references
to “vessel”, to “this section”, and to R.C. § 2923.16(K)(5)(a) and (K)(5)(b) as
incorporated under the definition of “firearm” adopted under division (a) of
this section.
(R.C. § 1547.69)
   (k)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. 1547.99(F))
§ 448.46 TAMPERING WITH NAVIGATION AID OR VESSEL PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly:
      (1)   Damage, remove or tamper with any signal, buoy or other aid to
navigation;
      (2)   Sever the mooring lines of, set adrift or tamper with any vessel
that is moored or tied up on the waters in this municipality.
(R.C. § 1547.92)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 1547.99(F))
§ 448.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   Whoever violates a provision of this chapter for which no penalty is
otherwise provided, is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 1547.99(C))
   (b)   The sentencing court, in addition to the penalty provided under this
chapter for a violation of this chapter that involves a powercraft powered by
more than ten horsepower and that, in the opinion of the court, involves a
threat to the safety of persons or property, shall order the offender to
complete successfully a boating course approved by the National Association of
State Boating Law Administrators before the offender is allowed to operate a
powercraft powered by more than ten horsepower on the waters in this state.
Violation of a court order entered under this division is punishable as
contempt under R.C. Chapter 2705.
(R.C. § 1547.99(L))
TITLE EIGHT: PARKING
CHAPTER 452: PARKING GENERALLY
Section
452.01   Prohibition against parking on streets or highways.
452.02   Police may remove illegally parked vehicle.
452.03   Prohibited standing or parking places.
452.04   Manner of parallel and angle parking; handicapped persons.
452.05   Willfully leaving vehicles on private or public property.
452.06   Parking prohibitions on private property; private tow-away zones.
452.07   Unattended vehicles; duty to lock ignition, remove key, set brake and
the like.
452.08   Opening doors on side available to traffic.
452.09   Selling, washing or repairing vehicle upon roadway.
452.10   Truck loading zones.
452.11   Bus stops and taxicab stands.
452.12   Parking in alleys and narrow streets; exceptions.
452.13   Parking of recreational vehicles and equipment.
452.14   Parking in yards and on unpaved or grassy areas.
452.15   Repealed.
452.16   Parking during heavy snowfalls.
452.17   Registered owner prima facie liable for unlawful parking.
452.18   Waiver.
452.99   Penalty.
Cross-references:
   Impounding; redemption, see §
404.07
   Lights on parked or stopped vehicles, see §
438.09
   Parking defined, see §
402.01
   Parking near stopped fire apparatus, see §
432.27
   Parking of bicycles; locks, see §
444.08
   Police may remove ignition key from unattended vehicle, see §
404.01
   Stop defined, see §
402.01
   Stopping and standing defined, see §
402.01
   Storage of junk vehicles, see §
660.07
§ 452.01 PROHIBITION AGAINST PARKING ON STREETS OR HIGHWAYS.
   (a)   (1)   Upon any highway, no person shall stop, park or leave standing
any vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon the paved or main traveled
part of the highway if it is practicable to stop, park or so leave the vehicle
off the paved or main traveled part of the highway. In every event a clear and
unobstructed portion of the highway opposite the standing vehicle shall be left
for the free passage of other vehicles, and a clear view of the stopped vehicle
shall be available from a distance of 200 feet in each direction upon the
highway.
      (2)   This section does not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is
disabled while on the paved or improved or main traveled portion of a highway
in such manner and to the extent that it is impossible to avoid stopping and
temporarily leaving the disabled vehicle in that position.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.66)
§ 452.02 POLICE MAY REMOVE ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLE.
   (a)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a highway in
violation of R.C. § 4511.66 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
the officer may move the vehicle, or require the driver or other person in
charge of the vehicle to move the same, to a position off the paved or improved
or main traveled part of the highway.
   (b)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any
highway, bridge or causeway, or in any tunnel, where the vehicle constitutes an
obstruction to traffic, the officer may provide for the removal of the vehicle
to the nearest garage or other place of safety.
(R.C. § 4511.67)
§ 452.03 PROHIBITED STANDING OR PARKING PLACES.
   (a)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or to comply with the provisions of this
title, or while obeying the directions of a police officer or a traffic-control
device, in any of the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk, except as provided in division (b) of this section;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within ten feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (7)   Within 30 feet of, and upon the approach to, any flashing beacon,
stop sign or traffic-control device;
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by a traffic-control device;
      (9)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (10)   Within 20 feet of a driveway entrance to any fire station and, on
the side of the street opposite the entrance to any fire station, within 75
feet of the entrance when it is properly posted with signs;
      (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
the standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (12)   Alongside any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street;
      (13)   Upon any bridge or elevated structure upon a highway, or within a
highway tunnel;
      (14)   At any place where signs prohibit stopping;
      (15)   Within one foot of another parked vehicle;
      (16)   On the roadway portion of a freeway, expressway or thruway.
   (b)   A person is permitted, without charge or restriction, to stand or park
on a sidewalk a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter that has an engine not
larger than 150 cubic centimeters, a low-speed micromobility device, or a
bicycle or electric bicycle, provided that the motor-driven cycle, motor
scooter, low-speed micromobility device, bicycle, or electric bicycle does not
impede the normal flow of pedestrian traffic. This division does not authorize
any person to operate a vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.711, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (a) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.68)
§ 452.04 MANNER OF PARALLEL AND ANGLE PARKING; HANDICAPPED PERSONS.
   (a)   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway where there is an
adjacent curb shall be stopped or parked with the right-hand wheels of the
vehicle parallel with and not more than 12 inches from the right-hand curb,
unless it is impossible to approach so close to the curb; in this case the stop
shall be made as close to the curb as possible and only for the time necessary
to discharge and receive passengers or to load or unload merchandise. Local
authorities by ordinance may permit angle parking on any roadway under their
jurisdiction, except that angle parking shall not be permitted on a state route
within the municipality unless an unoccupied roadway width of not less than 25
feet is available for free- moving traffic.
   (b)   Local authorities by ordinance may permit parking of vehicles with the
left-hand wheels adjacent to and within 12 inches of the left-hand curb of a
one-way roadway.
   (c)   (1)   A.   Except as provided in division (c)(1)B. of this section, no
vehicle shall be stopped or parked on a road or highway with the vehicle facing
in a direction other than the direction of travel on that side of the road or
highway.
         B.   The operator of a motorcycle may back the motorcycle into an
angled parking space so that when the motorcycle is parked it is facing in a
direction other than the direction of travel on the side of the road or
highway.
      (2)   The operator of a motorcycle may back the motorcycle into a parking
space that is located on the side of, and parallel to, a road or highway. The
motorcycle may face any direction when so parked. Not more than two motorcycles
at a time shall be parked in a parking space as described in this division (c)
(2) of this section irrespective of whether or not the space is metered.
   (d)   Notwithstanding any statute or any rule, regulation, resolution or
ordinance, air compressors, tractors, trucks and other equipment, while being
used in the construction, reconstruction, installation, repair or removal of
facilities near, on, over or under a street or highway, may stop, stand or park
where necessary in order to perform the work, provided a flagperson is on duty
or warning signs or lights are displayed as may be prescribed by the Director
of Transportation.
   (e)   Special parking locations and privileges for persons with disabilities
that limit or impair the ability to walk, also known as handicapped parking
spaces or disability parking spaces, shall be provided and designated by all
political subdivisions and by the state and all agencies and instrumentalities
thereof at all offices and facilities where parking is provided, whether owned,
rented or leased, and at all publicly owned parking garages. The locations
shall be designated through the posting of an elevated sign, whether
permanently affixed or movable, imprinted with the international symbol of
access and shall be reasonably close to exits, entrances, elevators and ramps.
All elevated signs posted in accordance with this division and R.C. § 3781.111
(C) shall be mounted on a fixed or movable post, and the distance from the
ground to the bottom edge of the sign shall measure not less than five feet. If
a new sign or a replacement sign designating a special parking location is
posted on or after October 14, 1999, there also shall be affixed upon the
surface of that sign or affixed next to the designating sign a notice that
states the fine applicable for the offense of parking a motor vehicle in the
special designated parking location if the motor vehicle is not legally
entitled to be parked in that location.
   (f)   (1)   A.   No person shall stop, stand or park any motor vehicle at
special parking locations provided under division (e) of this section, or at
special clearly marked parking locations provided in or on privately owned
parking lots, parking garages or other parking areas and designated in
accordance with that division, unless one of the following applies:
            1.   The motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of
a person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk and is
displaying a valid removable windshield placard or special license plates; or
            2.   The motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of
a handicapped person and is displaying a parking card or special handicapped
license plates.
         B.   Any motor vehicle that is parked in a special marked parking
location in violation of division (f)(1)A.1. or (f)(1)A.2. of this section may
be towed or otherwise removed from the parking location by the law enforcement
agency of the municipality. A motor vehicle that is so towed or removed shall
not be released to its owner until the owner presents proof of ownership of the
motor vehicle and pays all towing and storage fees normally imposed by the
municipality for towing and storing motor vehicles. If the motor vehicle is a
leased vehicle, it shall not be released to the lessee until the lessee
presents proof that that person is the lessee of the motor vehicle and pays all
towing and storage fees normally imposed by the municipality for towing and
storing motor vehicles.
         C.   If a person is charged with a violation of division (f)(1)A.1. or
(f)(1)A.2. of this section, it is an affirmative defense to the charge that the
person suffered an injury not more than 72 hours prior to the time the person
was issued the ticket or citation and that, because of the injury, the person
meets at least one of the criteria contained in R.C. § 4503.44(A)(1).
      (2)   No person shall stop, stand, or park any motor vehicle in an area
that is commonly known as an access aisle, which area is marked by diagonal
stripes and is located immediately adjacent to a special parking location
provided under division (e) of this section or at a special clearly marked
parking location provided in or on a privately owned parking lot, parking
garage, or other parking area and designated in accordance with that division.
   (g)   When a motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of a
person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk and is
displaying a removable windshield placard or a temporary removable windshield
placard or special license plates, or when a motor vehicle is being operated by
or for the transport of a handicapped person, and is displaying a parking card
or special handicapped license plates, the motor vehicle is permitted to park
for a period of two hours in excess of the legal parking period permitted by
local authorities, except where local ordinances or police rules provide
otherwise or where the vehicle is parked in such a manner as to be clearly a
traffic hazard.
   (h)   No owner of an office, facility or parking garage where special
parking locations are required to be designated in accordance with division (e)
of this section shall fail to properly mark the special parking locations in
accordance with that division or fail to maintain the markings of the special
locations, including the erection and maintenance of the fixed or movable
signs.
   (i)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require a person or
organization to apply for a removable windshield placard or special license
plates if the parking card or special license plates issued to the person or
organization under prior law have not expired or been surrendered or revoked.
   (j)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Handicapped person.” Any person who has lost the use of one or
both legs or one or both arms, who is blind, deaf or so severely handicapped as
to be unable to move without the aid of crutches or a wheelchair, or whose
mobility is restricted by a permanent cardiovascular, pulmonary or other
handicapping condition.
      (2)   “Person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to
walk.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4503.44.
      (3)   “Special license plates” and “removable windshield placard.” Any
license plates or removable windshield placard or temporary removable
windshield placard issued under R.C. § 4503.41 or 4503.44, and also mean any
substantially equivalent license plates or removable windshield placard or
temporary removable windshield placard issued by a state, district, country or
sovereignty.
   (k)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (a) or (c) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   A.   Whoever violates division (f)(1)A.1. or (f)(1)A.2. of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in
division (k)(2)A. and (k)(2)B. of this section. Except as otherwise provided in
division (k)(2)A. of this section, an offender who violates division (f)(1)A.1.
or (f)(1)A.2. of this section shall be fined not less than $250 nor more than
$500. An offender who violates division (f)(1)A.1. or (f)(1)A.2. of this
section shall be fined not more than $100 if the offender, prior to sentencing,
proves either of the following to the satisfaction of the court:
            1.   At the time of the violation of division (f)(1)A.1. of this
section, the offender or the person for whose transport the motor vehicle was
being operated had been issued a removable windshield placard that then was
valid or special license plates that then were valid but the offender or the
person neglected to display the placard or license plates as described in
division (f)(1)A.1. of this section.
            2.   At the time of the violation of division (f)(1)A.2. of this
section, the offender or the person for whose transport the motor vehicle was
being operated had been issued a parking card that then was valid or special
handicapped license plates that then were valid but the offender or the person
neglected to display the card or license plates as described in division (f)
(1)A.2. of this section.
         B.   In no case shall an offender who violates division (f)(1)A.1. or
(f)(1)A.2. be sentenced to any term of imprisonment.
         C.   An arrest or conviction for a violation of division (f)(1)A.1. or
(f)(1)A.2. of this section does not constitute a criminal record and need not
be reported by the person so arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries
contained in any application for employment, license or other right or
privilege, or made in connection with the person’s appearance as a witness.
         D.   The Clerk of the Court shall pay every fine collected under
divisions (k)(2) and (k)(3) of this section to the municipality. Except as
provided in division (k)(2) of this section, the municipality shall use the
fine moneys it receives under divisions (k)(2) and (k)(3) of this section to
pay the expenses it incurs in complying with the signage and notice
requirements contained in division (e) of this section. The municipality may
use up to 50% of each fine it receives under divisions (k)(2) and (k)(3) of
this section to pay the costs of educational, advocacy, support and assistive
technology programs for persons with disabilities, and for public improvements
within the municipality that benefit or assist persons with disabilities, if
governmental agencies or nonprofit organizations offer the programs.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (f)(2) of this section shall be fined not
less than $250 nor more than $500. In no case shall an offender who violates
division (f)(2) of this section be sentenced to any term of imprisonment. An
arrest or conviction for a violation of division (f)(2) of this section does
not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries contained in any application
for employment, license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection
with the person’s appearance as a witness.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (h) of this section shall be punished as
follows:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (k)(4) of this section,
the offender shall be issued a warning.
         B.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (h) of this section or of a municipal
ordinance that is substantially equivalent to that division, the offender shall
not be issued a warning but shall be fined not more than $25 for each parking
location that is not properly marked or whose markings are not properly
maintained.
(R.C. § 4511.69)
§ 452.05 WILLFULLY LEAVING VEHICLES ON PRIVATE OR PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (a)   The County Sheriff or Chief of Police, within the Sheriff’s or Chief’s
respective territorial jurisdiction, or a state highway patrol trooper, upon
notification to the Sheriff or Chief of Police of such action and of the
location of the place of storage, may order into storage any motor vehicle,
including an abandoned junk motor vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4513.63, that:
      (1)   Has come into the possession of the Sheriff, Chief of Police, or
state highway patrol trooper as a result of the performance of the Sheriff’s,
Chief’s, or trooper’s duties; or
      (2)   Has been left on a public street or other property open to the
public for purposes of vehicular travel, or upon or within the right-of-way of
any road or highway, for 48 hours or longer without notification to the Sheriff
or Chief of Police of the reasons for leaving the motor vehicle in such place.
However, when such a motor vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic it may
be ordered into storage immediately unless either of the following applies:
         A.   The vehicle was involved in an accident and is subject to R.C. §
4513.66, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
         B.   The vehicle is a commercial motor vehicle. If the vehicle is a
commercial motor vehicle, the Sheriff, Chief of Police, or state highway patrol
trooper shall allow the owner or operator of the vehicle the opportunity to
arrange for the removal of the motor vehicle within a period of time specified
by the Sheriff, Chief of Police, or state highway patrol trooper. If the
Sheriff, Chief of Police, or state highway patrol trooper determines that the
vehicle cannot be removed within the specified period of time, the Sheriff,
Chief of Police, or state highway patrol trooper shall order the removal of the
vehicle.
      (3)   Subject to division (c) of this section, the Sheriff or Chief of
Police shall designate the place of storage of any motor vehicle so ordered
removed.
   (b)   If the Sheriff, Chief of Police, or a state highway patrol trooper
issues an order under division (a) of this section and arranges for the removal
of a motor vehicle by a towing service, the towing service shall deliver the
motor vehicle to the location designated by the Sheriff or Chief of Police not
more than two hours after the time it is removed.
   (c)   (1)   The Sheriff or Chief of Police shall cause a search to be made
of the records of an applicable entity listed in R.C. § 4513.601(F)(1) to
ascertain the identity of the owner and any lienholder of a motor vehicle
ordered into storage by the Sheriff or Chief of Police, or by a state highway
patrol trooper within five business days of the removal of the vehicle. Upon
obtaining such identity, the Sheriff or Chief of Police shall send or cause to
be sent to the owner or lienholder at the owner's or lienholder's last known
address by certified or express mail with return receipt requested, by
certified mail with electronic tracking, or by a commercial carrier service
utilizing any form of delivery requiring a signed receipt. The notice shall
inform the owner or lienholder that the motor vehicle will be declared a
nuisance and disposed of if not claimed within ten days of the date of the
sending of the notice.
      (2)   A.   The owner or lienholder of the motor vehicle may reclaim the
motor vehicle upon payment of any expenses or charges incurred in its removal
and storage, and presentation of proof of ownership, which may be evidenced by
a certificate of title or memorandum certificate of title to the motor vehicle,
a certificate of registration for the motor vehicle, or a lease agreement. Upon
presentation of proof of ownership evidenced as provided above, the owner of
the motor vehicle also may retrieve any personal items from the vehicle without
retrieving the vehicle and without paying any fee. However, a towing service or
storage facility may charge an after-hours retrieval fee established by the
Public Utilities Commission in rules adopted under R.C. § 4921.25 if the owner
retrieves the personal items after hours, unless the towing service or storage
facility fails to provide the notice required under R.C. § 4513.69(B)(3), if
applicable. However, the owner shall not do either of the following:
            1.   Retrieve any personal item that has been determined by the
Sheriff, Chief of Police, or a state highway patrol trooper, as applicable, to
be necessary to a criminal investigation;
            2.   Retrieve any personal item from a vehicle if it would endanger
the safety of the owner, unless the owner agrees to sign a waiver of liability.
         B.   For purposes of division (c)(2) of this section, “personal items”
do not include any items that are attached to the vehicle.
      (3)   If the owner or lienholder of the motor vehicle reclaims it after a
search of the applicable records has been conducted and after notice has been
sent to the owner or lienholder as described in this section, and the search
was conducted by the place of storage, and the notice was sent to the motor
vehicle owner by the place of storage, the owner or lienholder shall pay to the
place of storage a processing fee of $25, in addition to any expenses or
charges incurred in the removal and storage of the vehicle.
   (d)   If the owner or lienholder makes no claim to the motor vehicle within
ten days of the date of sending the notice, and if the vehicle is to be
disposed of at public auction as provided in R.C. § 4513.62 or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the Sheriff or Chief of Police,
without charge to any party, shall file with the Clerk of Courts of the county
in which the place of storage is located an affidavit showing compliance with
the requirements of this section. Upon presentation of the affidavit, the
Clerk, without charge, shall issue a salvage certificate of title, free and
clear of all liens and encumbrances, to the Sheriff or Chief of Police. If the
vehicle is to be disposed of to a motor vehicle salvage dealer or other
facility as provided in R.C. § 4513.62 or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, the Sheriff or Chief of Police shall execute in triplicate
an affidavit, as prescribed by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, describing the
motor vehicle and the manner in which it was disposed of, and that all
requirements of this section have been complied with. The Sheriff or Chief of
Police shall retain the original of the affidavit for the Sheriff's or Chief's
records, and shall furnish two copies to the motor vehicle salvage dealer or
other facility. Upon presentation of a copy of the affidavit by the motor
vehicle salvage dealer, the Clerk of Courts, within 30 days of the
presentation, shall issue a salvage certificate of title, free and clear of all
liens and encumbrances.
   (e)   Whenever a motor vehicle salvage dealer or other facility receives an
affidavit for the disposal of a motor vehicle as provided in this section, the
dealer or facility shall not be required to obtain an Ohio certificate of title
to the motor vehicle in the dealer’s or facility’s own name if the vehicle is
dismantled or destroyed and both copies of the affidavit are delivered to the
Clerk of Courts.
   (f)   No towing service or storage facility shall fail to comply with this
section.
(R.C. § 4513.61)
   (g)   Abandonment of Junk Motor Vehicle Prohibited.
      (1)   A.   No person shall willfully leave an abandoned junk motor
vehicle, as defined in R.C. § 4513.63, on private property for more than 72
hours without the permission of the person having the right to the possession
of the property, or on a public street or other property open to the public for
purposes of vehicular travel or parking, or upon or within the right-of-way of
any road or highway for 48 hours or longer without notification to the Police
Chief of the reason for leaving the motor vehicle in that place.
         B.   For purposes of this division (g)(1), the fact that a motor
vehicle has been so left without permission or notification is prima facie
evidence of abandonment.
         C.   Nothing contained in this section and R.C. § 4513.60, 4513.61 and
4513.63 shall invalidate or prevent the enactment of further provisions of
municipal ordinances regulating or prohibiting the abandonment of motor
vehicles on streets, highways, public property or private property within the
municipality.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (g) is guilty of a minor misdemeanor
and shall also be assessed any costs incurred by the municipality in disposing
of the abandoned junk motor vehicle, less any money accruing to the
municipality from the disposal.
(R.C. § 4513.64)
§ 452.06 PARKING PROHIBITIONS ON PRIVATE PROPERTY; PRIVATE TOW-AWAY ZONES.
   (a)   (1)   The Sheriff or Chief of Police, upon complaint of any person
adversely affected, may order into storage any motor vehicle, other than an
abandoned junk motor vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4513.63, that has been left
on private residential or private agricultural property for at least four hours
without the permission of the person having the right to the possession of the
property. The Sheriff or Chief of Police, upon complaint of a repair garage or
place of storage, may order into storage any motor vehicle, other than an
abandoned junk motor vehicle, that has been left at the garage or place of
storage for a longer period than that agreed upon. When ordering a motor
vehicle into storage pursuant to this division, the Sheriff or Chief of Police
may arrange for the removal of the motor vehicle by a towing service and shall
designate a storage facility.
      (2)   A towing service towing a motor vehicle under division (a)(1) of
this section shall remove the motor vehicle in accordance with that division.
The towing service shall deliver the motor vehicle to the location designated
by the Sheriff or Chief of Police not more than two hours after the time it is
removed from the private property, unless the towing service is unable to
deliver the motor vehicle within two hours due to an uncontrollable force,
natural disaster, or other event that is not within the power of the towing
service.
      (3)   Subject to division (b) of this section, the owner of a motor
vehicle that has been removed pursuant to this division may recover the vehicle
only in accordance with division (d) of this section.
      (4)   As used in this section, “private residential property” means
private property on which is located one or more structures that are used as a
home, residence, or sleeping place by one or more persons, if no more than
three separate households are maintained in the structure or structures. The
phrase does not include any private property on which is located one or more
structures that are used as a home, residence, or sleeping place by two or more
persons, if more than three separate households are maintained in the structure
or structures.
   (b)   (1)   If the owner or operator of a motor vehicle that has been
ordered into storage pursuant to division (a)(1) of this section arrives after
the motor vehicle has been prepared for removal, but prior to its actual
removal from the property, the towing service shall give the owner or operator
oral or written notification at the time of such arrival that the vehicle owner
or operator may pay a fee of not more than one-half of the fee for the removal
of the motor vehicle established by the Public Utilities Commission in rules
adopted under R.C. § 4921.25, in order to obtain release of the motor vehicle.
However, if the vehicle is within a municipal corporation and the municipal
corporation has established a vehicle removal fee, the towing service shall
give the owner or operator oral or written notification that the owner or
operator may pay not more than one-half of that fee to obtain release of the
motor vehicle. That fee may be paid by use of a major credit card unless the
towing service uses a mobile credit card processor and mobile service is not
available at the time of the transaction.
      (2)   Upon payment of the applicable fee, the towing service shall give
the vehicle owner or operator a receipt showing both the full amount normally
assessed and the actual amount received and shall release the motor vehicle to
the owner or operator. Upon its release, the owner or operator immediately
shall move it so that it is not on the private residential or private
agricultural property without the permission of the person having the right to
possession of the property, or is not at the garage or place of storage without
the permission of the owner, whichever is applicable.
   (c)   (1)   The Sheriff and Chief of Police shall maintain a record of motor
vehicles that the Sheriff or Chief of Police orders into storage pursuant to
division (a)(1) of this section. The record shall include an entry for each
such motor vehicle that identifies the motor vehicle’s license number, make,
model, and color, the location from which it was removed, the date and time of
its removal, the telephone number of the person from whom it may be recovered,
and the address of the place to which it has been taken and from which it may
be recovered. The Sheriff or Chief of Police shall provide any information in
the record that pertains to a particular motor vehicle to any person who,
either in person or pursuant to a telephone call, identifies self as the owner
or operator of the motor vehicle and requests information pertaining to its
location.
      (2)   Any person who registers a complaint that is the basis of the
Sheriff’s or Police Chief’s order for the removal and storage of a motor
vehicle under division (a)(1) of this section shall provide the identity of the
law enforcement agency with which the complaint was registered to any person
who identifies self as the owner or operator of the motor vehicle and requests
information pertaining to its location.
   (d)   (1)   The owner or lienholder of a motor vehicle that is ordered into
storage pursuant to division (a)(1) of this section may reclaim it upon both of
the following:
         A.   Payment of all applicable fees established by the Public
Utilities Commission in rules adopted under R.C. § 4921.25 or, if the vehicle
was towed within a municipal corporation that has established fees for vehicle
removal and storage, payment of all applicable fees established by the
municipal corporation.
         B.   Presentation of proof of ownership, which may be evidenced by a
certificate of title to the motor vehicle, a certificate of registration for
the motor vehicle, or a lease agreement.
      (2)   When the owner of a vehicle towed under this section retrieves the
vehicle, the towing service or storage facility in possession of the vehicle
shall give the owner written notice that if the owner disputes that the motor
vehicle was lawfully towed, the owner may be able to file a civil action under
R.C. § 4513.611.
      (3)   Upon presentation of proof of ownership as required under division
(d)(1)B. of this section, the owner of a motor vehicle that is ordered into
storage under division (a)(1) of this section may retrieve any personal items
from the motor vehicle without retrieving the vehicle and without paying any
fee. However, a towing service or storage facility may charge an after-hours
retrieval fee established by the Public Utilities Commission in rules adopted
under R.C. § 4921.25 if the owner retrieves the personal items after hours,
unless the towing service or storage facility fails to provide the notice
required under R.C. § 4513.69(B)(3), if applicable. The owner of a motor
vehicle shall not do either of the following:
         A.   Retrieve any personal item that has been determined by the
Sheriff or Chief of Police, as applicable, to be necessary to a criminal
investigation;
         B.   Retrieve any personal item from a vehicle if it would endanger
the safety of the owner, unless the owner agrees to sign a waiver of liability.
      (4)   For purposes of division (d)(3) of this section, “personal items”
do not include any items that are attached to the motor vehicle.
      (5)   If a motor vehicle that is ordered into storage pursuant to
division (a)(1) of this section remains unclaimed by the owner for 30 days, the
procedures established by R.C. § 4513.61 and 4513.62 apply.
   (e)   (1)   No person shall remove, or cause the removal of, any motor
vehicle from any private residential or private agricultural property other
than in accordance with division (a)(1) of this section or R.C. § 4513.61 to
4513.65.
      (2)   No towing service or storage facility shall fail to comply with the
requirements of this section.
   (f)   This section does not apply to any private residential or private
agricultural property that is established as a private tow-away zone in
accordance with division (h) of this section or R.C. § 4513.601.
   (g)   Whoever violates division (e) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.60)
   (h)   Private Tow-Away Zones.
      (1)   The owner of a private property may establish a private tow-away
zone, but may do so only if all of the following conditions are satisfied:
         A.   The owner of the private property posts on the property a sign,
that is at least 18 inches by 24 inches in size, that is visible from all
entrances to the property, and that includes all of the following information:
            1.   A statement that the property is a tow-away zone;
            2.   A description of persons authorized to park on the property.
If the property is a residential property, the owner of the private property
may include on the sign a statement that only tenants and guests may park in
the private tow-away zone, subject to the terms of the property owner. If the
property is a commercial property, the owner of the private property may
include on the sign a statement that only customers may park in the private
tow-away zone. In all cases, if it is not apparent which persons may park in
the private tow-away zone, the owner of the private property shall include on
the sign the address of the property on which the private tow-away zone is
located or the name of the business that is located on the property designated
as a private tow-away zone.
            3.   If the private tow-away zone is not enforceable at all times,
the times during which the parking restrictions are enforced;
            4.   The telephone number and the address of the place from which a
towed vehicle may be recovered at any time during the day or night;
            5.   A statement that the failure to recover a towed vehicle may
result in the loss of title to the vehicle as provided in R.C. § 4505.101(B).
            6.   In order to comply with the requirements of division (h)(1)A.
of this section, the owner of a private property may modify an existing sign by
affixing to the existing sign stickers or an addendum in lieu of replacing the
sign.
         B.   A towing service ensures that a vehicle towed under this division
(h) is taken to a location from which it may be recovered that complies with
all of the following:
            1.   It is located within 25 linear miles of the location of the
private tow- away zone, unless it is not practicable to take the vehicle to a
place of storage within 25 linear miles.
            2.   It is well-lighted.
            3.   It is on or within a reasonable distance of a regularly
scheduled route of one or more modes of public transportation, if any public
transportation is available in the municipal corporation or township in which
the private tow-away zone is located.
      (2)   A.   If a vehicle is parked on private property that is established
as a private tow-away zone in accordance with division (h)(1) of this section,
without the consent of the owner of the private property or in violation of any
posted parking condition or regulation, the owner of the private property may
cause the removal of the vehicle by a towing service. The towing service shall
remove the vehicle in accordance with this division (h). The vehicle owner and
the operator of the vehicle are considered to have consented to the removal and
storage of the vehicle, to the payment of the applicable fees established by
the Public Utilities Commission in rules adopted under R.C. § 4921.25, and to
the right of a towing service to obtain title to the vehicle if it remains
unclaimed as provided in R.C. § 4505.101. The owner or lienholder of a vehicle
that has been removed under this division (h), subject to division (h)(3) of
this section, may recover the vehicle in accordance with division (h)(7) of
this section.
         B.   If a municipal corporation requires tow trucks and tow truck
operators to be licensed, no owner of a private property located within the
municipal corporation shall cause the removal and storage of any vehicle
pursuant to division (h)(2) of this section by an unlicensed tow truck or
unlicensed tow truck operator.
         C.   No towing service shall remove a vehicle from a private tow-away
zone except pursuant to a written contract for the removal of vehicles entered
into with the owner of the private property on which the private tow-away zone
is located.
      (3)   If the owner or operator of a vehicle that is being removed under
authority of division (h)(2) of this section arrives after the vehicle has been
prepared for removal, but prior to its actual removal from the property, the
towing service shall give the vehicle owner or operator oral or written
notification at the time of such arrival that the vehicle owner or operator may
pay a fee of not more than one-half of the fee for the removal of the vehicle
established by the Public Utilities Commission in rules adopted under R.C. §
4921.25 in order to obtain release of the vehicle. That fee may be paid by use
of a major credit card unless the towing service uses a mobile credit card
processor and mobile service is not available at the time of the transaction.
Upon payment of that fee, the towing service shall give the vehicle owner or
operator a receipt showing both the full amount normally assessed and the
actual amount received and shall release the vehicle to the owner or operator.
Upon its release, the owner or operator immediately shall move the vehicle so
that the vehicle is not parked on the private property established as a private
tow-away zone without the consent of the owner of the private property or in
violation of any posted parking condition or regulation.
      (4)   A.   Prior to towing a vehicle under division (h)(2) of this
section, a towing service shall make all reasonable efforts to take as many
photographs as necessary to evidence that the vehicle is clearly parked on
private property in violation of a private tow-away zone established under
division (h)(1) of this section. The towing service shall record the time and
date of the photographs taken under this division (h). The towing service shall
retain the photographs and the record of the time and date, in electronic or
printed form, for at least 30 days after the date on which the vehicle is
recovered by the owner or lienholder or at least two years after the date on
which the vehicle was towed, whichever is earlier.
         B.   A towing service shall deliver a vehicle towed under division (h)
(2) of this section to the location from which it may be recovered not more
than two hours after the time it was removed from the private tow-away zone,
unless the towing service is unable to deliver the motor vehicle within two
hours due to an uncontrollable force, natural disaster, or other event that is
not within the power of the towing service.
      (5)   A.   If an owner of a private property that is established as a
private tow-away zone in accordance with division (h)(1) of this section causes
the removal of a vehicle from that property by a towing service under division
(h)(2) of this section, the towing service, within two hours of removing the
vehicle, shall provide notice to the Sheriff or the Police Department
concerning all of the following:
            1.   The vehicle’s license number, make, model, and color;
            2.   The location from which the vehicle was removed;
            3.   The date and time the vehicle was removed;
            4.   The telephone number of the person from whom the vehicle may
be recovered;
            5.   The address of the place from which the vehicle may be
recovered.
         B.   The Sheriff and Chief of Police shall maintain a record of any
vehicle removed from private property in the Sheriff’s or Police Chief’s
jurisdiction that is established as a private tow-away zone of which the
Sheriff or Police Chief has received notice under this division (h). The record
shall include all information submitted by the towing service. The Sheriff or
Police Chief shall provide any information in the record that pertains to a
particular vehicle to a person who, either in person or pursuant to a telephone
call, identifies self as the owner, operator, or lienholder of the vehicle and
requests information pertaining to the vehicle.
      (6)   A.   When a vehicle is removed from private property in accordance
with this section, within three business days of the removal, the towing
service or storage facility from which the vehicle may be recovered shall cause
a search to be made of either of the following to ascertain the identity of the
owner and any lienholder of the vehicle:
            1.   The records of the Bureau of Motor Vehicles;
            2.   The records of any vendor or vendors, approved by the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles, that are capable of providing real-time access to
owner and lienholder information.
         B.   The towing service or storage facility may search the National
Motor Vehicle Title Information System in order to determine the state in which
the vehicle is titled. The entity that provides the record of the owner and any
lienholder under this division shall ensure that such information is provided
in a timely manner.
         C.   Subject to division (h)(6)F. of this section, the towing service
or storage facility shall send notice to the vehicle owner and any known
lienholder as follows:
            1.   Within five business days after the applicable entity provides
the identity of the owner and any lienholder of the motor vehicle, if the
vehicle remains unclaimed, to the owner's and lienholder's last known address
by certified or express mail with return receipt requested, by certified mail
with electronic tracking, or by a commercial carrier service utilizing any form
of delivery requiring a signed receipt;
            2.   If the vehicle remains unclaimed 30 days after the first
notice is sent, in the manner required under division (h)(6)C.1. of this
section.
         D.   Sixty days after any notice sent pursuant to division (h)(6)C. of
this section is received, as evidenced by a receipt signed by any person, or
the towing service or storage facility has been notified that delivery was not
possible, the towing service or storage facility, if authorized under R.C. §
4505.101(B), may initiate the process for obtaining a certificate of title to
the motor vehicle as provided in that section.
         E.   A towing service or storage facility that does not receive a
signed receipt of notice, or a notification that delivery was not possible,
shall not obtain, and shall not attempt to obtain, a certificate of title to
the motor vehicle under R.C. § 4505.101(B).
         F.   With respect to a vehicle concerning which a towing service or
storage facility is not eligible to obtain title under R.C. § 4505.101, the
towing service or storage facility need only comply with the initial notice
required under division (h)(6)C.1. of this section.
      (7)   A.   The owner or lienholder of a vehicle that is removed under
division (h)(2) of this section may reclaim it upon both of the following:
            1.   Presentation of proof of ownership, which may be evidenced by
a certificate of title to the vehicle, a certificate of registration for the
motor vehicle, or a lease agreement;
            2.   Payment of the following fees:
               a.   All applicable fees established by the Public Utilities
Commission in rules adopted under R.C. § 4921.25, except that the lienholder of
a vehicle may retrieve the vehicle without paying any storage fee for the
period of time that the vehicle was in the possession of the towing service or
storage facility prior to the date the lienholder received the notice sent
under division (h)(6)A.1. of this section;
               b.   If notice has been sent to the owner and lienholder as
described in division (h)(6) of this section, a processing fee of $25.
         B.   A towing service or storage facility in possession of a vehicle
that is removed under authority of division (h)(2) of this section shall show
the vehicle owner, operator, or lienholder who contests the removal of the
vehicle all photographs taken under division (h)(4) of this section. Upon
request, the towing service or storage facility shall provide a copy of all
photographs in the medium in which the photographs are stored, whether paper,
electronic, or otherwise.
         C.   When the owner of a vehicle towed under this section retrieves
the vehicle, the towing service or storage facility in possession of the
vehicle shall give the owner written notice that if the owner disputes that the
motor vehicle was lawfully towed, the owner may be able to file a civil action
under R.C. § 4513.611.
         D.   Upon presentation of proof of ownership, which may be evidenced
by a certificate of title to the vehicle, a certificate of registration for the
motor vehicle, or a lease agreement, the owner of a vehicle that is removed
under authority of division (h)(2) of this section may retrieve any personal
items from the vehicle without retrieving the vehicle and without paying any
fee. The owner of the vehicle shall not retrieve any personal items from a
vehicle if it would endanger the safety of the owner, unless the owner agrees
to sign a waiver of liability. For purposes of division (h)(7)D. of this
section, “personal items” do not include any items that are attached to the
vehicle.
      (8)   No person shall remove, or cause the removal of, any vehicle from
private property that is established as a private tow-away zone under this
division (h) or store such a vehicle other than in accordance with this
division (h), or otherwise fail to comply with any applicable requirement of
this division (h).
      (9)   This section does not affect or limit the operation of divisions
(a) through (g) of this section, R.C. § 4513.60, 4513.61 to 4613.65 as they
relate to property other than private property that is established as a private
tow-away zone under division (h)(1) of this section.
      (10)   Whoever violates division (h)(8) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
      (11)   As used in this section, “owner of a private property” or “owner
of the private property” includes, with respect to a private property, any of
the following:
         A.   Any person who holds title to the property;
         B.   Any person who is a lessee or sublessee with respect to a lease
or sublease agreement for the property;
         C.   A person who is authorized to manage the property;
         D.   A duly authorized agent of any person listed in divisions (h)
(11)A. to (h)(11)C. of this section.
(R.C. § 4513.601)
   (i)   If an owner of private property posts on the property in a conspicuous
manner a prohibition against parking on the property or conditions and
regulations under which parking is permitted, no person shall do either of the
following:
      (1)   Park a vehicle on the property without the owner’s consent;
      (2)   Park a vehicle on the property in violation of any condition or
regulation posted by the owner.
   (j)   Whoever violates division (i) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.681)
§ 452.07 UNATTENDED VEHICLES; DUTY TO LOCK IGNITION, REMOVE KEY, SET BRAKE AND
THE LIKE.
   (a)   (1)   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit
it to stand unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition,
removing the key from the ignition, effectively setting the parking brake, and,
when the motor vehicle is standing upon any grade, turning the front wheels to
the curb or side of the highway.
      (2)   The requirements of this section relating to the stopping of the
engine, locking of the ignition, and removing the key from the ignition of a
motor vehicle do not apply to any of the following:
         A.   A motor vehicle that is parked on residential property;
         B.   A motor vehicle that is locked, regardless of where it is parked;
         C.   An emergency vehicle ;
         D.   A public safety vehicle.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.661)
§ 452.08 OPENING DOORS ON SIDE AVAILABLE TO TRAFFIC.
   (a)   No person shall open the door of a vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, and can be done
without interfering with the movement of other traffic, nor shall any person
leave a door open on the side of a vehicle available to moving traffic for a
period of time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.70)
§ 452.09 SELLING, WASHING OR REPAIRING VEHICLE UPON ROADWAY.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon any roadway for the
principal purpose of:
   (a)   Displaying the vehicle for sale; or
   (b)   Washing, greasing or repairing the vehicle except repairs necessitated
by an emergency.
§ 452.10 TRUCK LOADING ZONES.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or length of
time, other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pickup and
loading of materials, in any place marked as a truck loading zone during hours
when the provisions applicable to those zones are in effect. In no case shall
the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed 30 minutes.
§ 452.11 BUS STOPS AND TAXICAB STANDS.
   (a)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle other than a bus in a
bus stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand, when any such stop or
stand has been officially designated and appropriately posted, except that the
driver of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of,
and while actually engaged in, loading or unloading passengers when the
stopping does not interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about
to enter the zone, and then only for a period not to exceed three minutes, if
the stopping is not prohibited therein by posted signs.
   (b)   No operator of a bus shall stop, stand or park the vehicle upon any
street or other public way at any place for the purpose of loading or unloading
passengers or their baggage other than at a bus stop so designated and posted
as such, except in case of an emergency.
   (c)   No operator of a bus shall fail to enter a bus stop on a street or
other public way in such a manner that the bus when stopped to load or unload
passengers or baggage is in a position with the right front wheel of the
vehicle not further than 18 inches from the curb and the bus approximately
parallel to the curb so as not to unduly impede the movement of other vehicular
traffic.
   (d)   No operator of a taxicab shall stand or park the vehicle upon any
street or other public way at any place other than in a taxicab stand so
designated and posted as such. This provision shall not prevent the operator of
a taxicab from temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or
parking provisions at any place for the purpose of, and while actually engaged
in, the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers.
§ 452.12 PARKING IN ALLEYS AND NARROW STREETS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (a)   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle upon a street, other
than an alley, in such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available
less than ten feet of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular
traffic, except that a driver may stop temporarily during the actual loading or
unloading of passengers or when directed to by a police officer or traffic-
control signal.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided by law, no person shall stop, stand or
park a vehicle within an alley except while actually loading and unloading, and
then only for a period not to exceed 30 minutes.
§ 452.13 PARKING OF RECREATIONAL VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT.
   (a)   As used in this section, recreational equipment is defined as and
shall include the following.
      (1)   “Boats” and “boat trailers” mean boats, floats and rafts, in
addition to the normal equipment to transport the same on a highway.
      (2)   “Folding tent trailer” means a canvas folding structure, mounted on
wheels and designed for travel and vacation use.
      (3)   “Motorized home” means a portable dwelling designed and constructed
as an integral part of a self-propelled vehicle.
      (4)   “Pick-up camper” means a structure designed primarily to be mounted
on a pick- up or truck chassis and with sufficient equipment to render it
suitable for use as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational or vacation
uses.
      (5)   “Travel trailer” means a vehicular, portable structure built on a
chassis designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational
and vacation uses and permanently identified as such by the manufacturer.
   (b)   Any owner of camping and recreational equipment may park or store such
equipment on single-family residential property subject to the following
conditions.
      (1)   Recreational equipment parked and stored shall not have fixed
connections to electrical, water, gas or sanitary sewer facilities, and at no
time shall this equipment be used for living or housekeeping purposes.
      (2)   If the camping and recreational equipment is parked or stored
outside of a garage, it shall be parked or stored ten feet to the rear of the
front line of the dwelling. The setback requirement in the side or rear yard
shall be a minimum of three feet.
   (c)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (b)(2) of this section,
camping and recreational equipment may be parked anywhere on the premises for
loading or unloading purposes for a period of not more than 72 hours.
   (d)   All recreational equipment must be kept in good repair and carry the
current year’s license and/or registration.
(Ord. 148, passed 5-12-1970)
§ 452.14 PARKING IN YARDS AND ON UNPAVED OR GRASSY AREAS.
   No person shall park a truck, van, boat, mobile home, motor vehicle or other
mobile equipment in a side or open yard or on an unpaved or grassy area. All
vehicles shall be parked in a driveway or along the street curb abutting a
premises, unless other arrangements are made and approved by the Planning and
Zoning Commission. Temporary parking in restricted areas is hereby authorized
for the purpose of repairing or resurfacing of driveways or other parking
areas.
452.15 REPEALED.
§ 452.16 PARKING DURING HEAVY SNOWFALLS.
   (a)   In order to facilitate the clearing of streets and to expedite the
safe, free flow of vehicular and pedestrian traffic during periods of
measureable snowfall, motor vehicles shall not be parked on streets:
      (1)   At such times as the National Weather Service indicates two inches
of snow have fallen and there is prospect of further snowfall or ice
accumulation;
      (2)   When the Mayor/Administrator or Chief of Police, at his or her
discretion, declares an emergency due to excessive snow;
      (3)   When a Level 1 or greater snow emergency has been declared by the
Franklin County Sheriff.
   (b)   All motor vehicles parked on streets prior to the time weather
conditions dictate prohibited parking must be removed promptly by the owners or
operators. In the event that a snow emergency has been declared, motor vehicles
must be removed from roadways within two hours after announcement of such
emergency. Any vehicle parked in violation of these prohibitions shall be
subject to fines provided herein and may be removed by authorized agents of the
Village of Minerva Park at the order of the Chief of Police or Mayor/
Administrator.
   (c)   The Mayor/Administrator or Chief of Police shall, through readily
available media (such as the Village website or social media outlets),
disseminate information as to the existence of a declared emergency. It shall
be the responsibility of the owners or operators of motor vehicles to ascertain
if weather conditions or a declared emergency requires the removal of their
motor vehicles from the streets and to remove all vehicles parked in violation
of this section.
   (d)   Any vehicles removed by authorized agents of the Village shall be
removed to a motor vehicle pound as designated by the Chief of Police or Mayor/
Administrator. Records of motor vehicles removed, and their locations, shall be
maintained by the Police Department.
(Ord. 12-78, passed 11-13-1978; Ord. 03-2018, passed 3-26-2018)
§ 452.17 REGISTERED OWNER PRIMA FACIE LIABLE FOR UNLAWFUL PARKING.
   In any hearing on a charge of illegally parking a motor vehicle, testimony
that a vehicle bearing a certain license plate was found unlawfully parked as
prohibited by the provisions of this traffic code, and further testimony that
the record of the Ohio Registrar of Motor Vehicles shows that the license plate
was issued to the defendant, shall be prima facie evidence that the vehicle
which was unlawfully parked, was so parked by the defendant. A certified
registration copy, showing that fact, from the Registrar shall be proof of
ownership.
§ 452.18 WAIVER.
   Any person charged with a violation of any provision of this chapter for
which payment of a prescribed fine may be made, may pay the sum in the manner
prescribed on the issued traffic ticket. This payment shall be deemed a plea of
guilty, waiver of court appearance and acknowledgment of conviction of the
alleged offense and may be accepted in full satisfaction of the prescribed
penalty for the alleged violation. Payment of the prescribed fine need not be
accepted when laws prescribe that a certain number of such offenses shall
require court appearance.
§ 452.99 PENALTY.
Editor’s note:
   See §§
408.01 and
408.02 for general traffic code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
PART SIX: GENERAL OFFENSES CODE
            
CHAP. 606.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
            
CHAP. 608.   PUBLIC SERVICE, ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
            
CHAP. 612.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
            
CHAP. 618.   ANIMALS
            
CHAP. 624.   DRUGS
            
CHAP. 630.   GAMBLING
            
CHAP. 636.   OFFENSES RELATING TO PERSONS
            
CHAP. 642.   OFFENSES RELATING TO PROPERTY
            
CHAP. 648.   PEACE DISTURBANCES
            
CHAP. 660.   SAFETY, SANITATION AND HEALTH
            
CHAP. 665.   WEEDS AND GRASS
            
CHAP. 666.   SEX RELATED OFFENSES
            
CHAP. 672.   THEFT AND FRAUD
            
CHAP. 678.   WEAPONS AND EXPLOSIVES
            
CHAP. 698.   PENALTIES AND SENTENCING
CHAPTER 606: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
606.01   Definitions.
606.02   Classification of offenses.
606.03   Offenses defined.
606.04   Rules of construction.
606.05   Criminal law jurisdiction.
606.06   Limitation on criminal prosecutions.
606.07   Requirements for criminal liability; voluntary intoxication.
606.08   Culpable mental states.
606.09   Organizational criminal liability.
606.10   Personal accountability for organizational conduct.
606.11   Attempts.
606.12   Complicity.
606.13   Self defense; limitations on duty to retreat prior to using force.
Statutory reference:
   Burden and degree of proof, see R.C. § 2901.05
   Definition of “imprisoned”, see R.C. § 1.05
   Statute of limitations for income tax violations, see R.C. § 718.06
   Venue, see R.C. § 2901.12, 2931.29 et seq.
§ 606.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (a)   “Campaign committee,” “contribution,” “legislative campaign fund,”
“political action committee,” “political contributing entity” and “political
party.” Have the same meanings as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   (b)   “Contraband.” Any property that is illegal for a person to acquire or
possess under a statute, ordinance or rule, or that a trier of fact lawfully
determines to be illegal to possess by reason of the property’s involvement in
an offense. “Contraband” includes but is not limited to all of the following:
      (1)   Any controlled substance, as defined in R.C. § 3719.01, or any
device or paraphernalia related thereto;
      (2)   Any unlawful gambling device or paraphernalia;
      (3)   Any dangerous ordnance or obscene material.
   (c)   “Deadly force.” Any force that carries a substantial risk that it will
proximately result in the death of any person.
   (d)   “Detention.” Arrest; confinement in any vehicle subsequent to an
arrest; confinement in any public or private facility for custody of persons
charged with or convicted of crime in this state or another state or under the
laws of the United States or alleged or found to be a delinquent child or
unruly child in this state or another state or under the laws of the United
States; hospitalization, institutionalization or confinement in any public or
private facility that is ordered pursuant to or under the authority of R.C. §
2945.37, 2945.371, 2945.38, 2945.39, 2945.40, 2945.401 or 2945.402; confinement
in any vehicle for transportation to or from any facility of any of those
natures; detention for extradition or deportation; except as provided in this
division, supervision by any employee of any facility of any of those natures
that is incidental to hospitalization, institutionalization or confinement in
the facility but that occurs outside the facility; supervision by an employee
of the Department of Rehabilitation and Correction of a person on any type of
release from a state correctional institution; or confinement in any vehicle,
airplane or place while being returned from outside of this state into this
state by a private person or entity pursuant to a contract entered into under
R.C. § 311.29(E) or 5149.03(B). For a person confined in a county jail who
participates in a county jail industry program pursuant to R.C. § 5147.30,
“detention” includes time spent at an assigned work site and going to and from
the work site.
   (e)   “Detention facility.” Any public or private place used for the
confinement of a person charged with or convicted of any crime in this state or
another state or under the laws of the United States or alleged or found to be
a delinquent child or an unruly child in this state or another state or under
the laws of the United States.
   (f)   “Force.” Any violence, compulsion or constraint physically exerted by
any means upon or against a person or thing.
   (g)   “Law enforcement officer.” Any of the following:
      (1)   A Sheriff, Deputy Sheriff, constable, police officer of a township
or joint police district, Marshal, Deputy Marshal, municipal police officer,
member of a police force employed by a metropolitan housing authority under
R.C. § 3735.31(D) or State Highway Patrol trooper.
      (2)   An officer, agent or employee of the state or any of its agencies,
instrumentalities or political subdivisions, upon whom, by statute, a duty to
conserve the peace or to enforce all or certain laws is imposed and the
authority to arrest violators is conferred, within the limits of such statutory
duty and authority.
      (3)   The Mayor, in a capacity as chief conservator of the peace within
the municipality.
      (4)   A member of an auxiliary police force organized by the county,
township or municipal law enforcement authorities, within the scope of the
member’s appointment or commission.
      (5)   A person lawfully called pursuant to R.C. § 311.07 to aid a sheriff
in keeping the peace, for the purposes and during the time when the person is
called.
      (6)   A person appointed by a Mayor pursuant to R.C. § 737.01 as a
special patrolling officer during a riot or emergency, for the purposes and
during the time when the person is appointed.
      (7)   A member of the organized militia of this state or the Armed Forces
of the United States, lawfully called to duty to aid civil authorities in
keeping the peace or protect against domestic violence.
      (8)   A prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, secret
service officer or municipal prosecutor.
      (9)   A veterans’ home police officer appointed under R.C. § 5907.02.
      (10)   A member of a police force employed by a regional transit
authority under R.C. § 306.35(Y).
      (11)   A special police officer employed by a port authority under R.C. §
4582.04 or 4582.28.
      (12)   The House of Representatives Sergeant at Arms if the House of
Representatives Sergeant at Arms has arrest authority pursuant to R.C. §
101.311(E)(1) and an Assistant House of Representatives Sergeant at Arms.
      (13)   The Senate Sergeant at Arms and an Assistant Senate Sergeant at
Arms.
      (14)   A special police officer employed by a municipal corporation at a
municipal airport, or other municipal air navigation facility, that has
scheduled operations, as defined in 14 C.F.R. 119.3, as amended, and that is
required to be under a security program and is governed by aviation security
rules of the Transportation Security Administration of the United States
Department of Transportation as provided in 49 C.F.R. Parts 1542 and 1544, as
amended.
   (h)   “Not guilty by reason of insanity.” A person is “not guilty by reason
of insanity” relative to a charge of an offense only if the person proves, in
the manner specified in R.C. § 2901.05, that at the time of the commission of
the offense, he or she did not know, as a result of a severe mental disease or
defect, the wrongfulness of his or her acts.
   (i)   “Offense of violence.”
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.01, 2903.02, 2903.03, 2903.04, 2903.11,
2903.12, 2903.13, 2903.15, 2903.21, 2903.211, 2903.22, 2905.01, 2905.02,
2905.11, 2905.32, 2907.02, 2907.03, 2907.05, 2909.02, 2909.03, 2909.24,
2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2917.01, 2917.02, 2917.03, 2917.31, 2919.25,
2921.03, 2921.04, 2921.34 or 2923.161, of division (A)(1) of R.C. § 2903.34, of
division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3) of R.C. § 2911.12, or of division (B)(1), (B)
(2), (B)(3) or (B)(4) of R.C. § 2919.22, or felonious sexual penetration in
violation of former R.C. § 2907.12;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States, substantially equivalent to
any section, division or offense listed in division (1) of this definition;
      (3)   An offense, other than a traffic offense, under an existing or
former municipal ordinance or law of this or any other state or of the United
States, committed purposely or knowingly, and involving physical harm to
persons or a risk of serious physical harm to persons;
      (4)   A conspiracy or attempt to commit, or complicity in committing, any
offense under division (1), (2) or (3) of this definition.
   (j)   “Official proceeding.” Any proceeding before a legislative, judicial,
administrative or other governmental agency or official authorized to take
evidence under oath, and includes any proceeding before a referee, hearing
examiner, commissioner, notary or other person taking testimony or a deposition
in connection with an official proceeding.
   (k)   “Party official.” Any person who holds an elective or appointive post
in a political party in the United States or this state, by virtue of which he
or she directs, conducts or participates in directing or conducting party
affairs at any level of responsibility.
   (l)   “Person.”
      (1)   A.   Subject to division (2) of this definition, as used in any
section contained in this general offenses code that sets forth a criminal
offense, “person” includes all of the following:
            1.   An individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership and association.
            2.   An unborn human who is viable.
         B.   As used in any section contained in this general offenses code
that does not set forth a criminal offense, “person” includes an individual,
corporation, business trust, estate, partnership and association.
         C.   As used in division (1)A.2. of this definition, “unborn human”
means an individual organism of the species homo sapiens from fertilization
until live birth. “Viable” means the stage of development of a human fetus at
which there is a realistic probability of maintaining and nourishing of a life
outside the womb with or without temporary artificial life-sustaining support.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (1)A. of this definition, in no case shall
the portion of the definition of the term “person” that is set forth in
division (1)A.2. of this definition be applied or construed in any section
contained in this general offenses code that sets forth a criminal offense in
any of the following manners:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (2)A. of this
definition, in a manner so that the offense prohibits or is construed as
prohibiting any pregnant woman or her physician from performing an abortion
with the consent of the pregnant woman, with the consent of the pregnant woman
implied by law in a medical emergency, or with the approval of one otherwise
authorized by law to consent to medical treatment on behalf of the pregnant
woman. An abortion that violates the conditions described in the immediately
preceding sentence may be punished as a violation of R.C. § 2903.01, 2903.02,
2903.03, 2903.04, 2903.05, 2903.06, 2903.08, 2903.11, 2903.12, 2903.13,
2903.14, 2903.21 or 2903.22, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, as applicable. An abortion that does not violate the conditions
described in the second immediately preceding sentence but that does violate
R.C. § 2919.12, 2919.13(B), 2919.15, 2919.151, 2919.17 or 2919.18, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, may be punished as a violation of
that section, as applicable. Consent is sufficient under this division if it is
of the type otherwise adequate to permit medical treatment to the pregnant
woman, even if it does not comply with R.C. § 2919.12.
         B.   In a manner so that the offense is applied or is construed as
applying to a woman based on an act or omission of the woman that occurs while
she is or was pregnant and that results in any of the following:
            1.   Her delivery of a stillborn baby.
            2.   Her causing, in any other manner, the death in utero of a
viable, unborn human that she is carrying.
            3.   Her causing the death of her child who is born alive but who
dies from one or more injuries that are sustained while the child is a viable,
unborn human.
            4.   Her causing her child who is born alive to sustain one or more
injuries while the child is a viable, unborn human.
            5.   Her causing, threatening to cause, or attempting to cause, in
any other manner, an injury, illness, or other psychological illness or
condition, regardless of its duration or gravity, to a viable, unborn human
that she is carrying.
   (m)   “Physical harm to persons.” Any injury, illness or other physiological
impairment, regardless of its gravity or duration.
   (n)   “Physical harm to property.” Any tangible or intangible damage to
property that, in any degree, results in loss to its value or interferes with
its use or enjoyment. “Physical harm to property” does not include wear and
tear occasioned by normal use.
   (o)   “Privilege.” An immunity, license or right conferred by law, or
bestowed by express or implied grant, or arising out of status, position,
office or relationship, or growing out of necessity.
   (p)   “Property.”
      (1)   Any property, real or personal, tangible or intangible, and any
interest or license in that property. “Property” includes but is not limited to
cable television service, other telecommunications service, telecommunications
devices, information service, computers, data, computer software, financial
instruments associated with computers, other documents associated with
computers, or copies of the documents, whether in machine or human-readable
form, trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights, patents, and property protected by
a trademark, copyright or patent. “Financial instruments associated with
computers” include but are not limited to checks, drafts, warrants, money
orders, notes of indebtedness, certificates of deposit, letters of credit,
bills of credit or debit cards, financial transaction authorization mechanisms,
marketable securities or any computer system representations of any of them.
      (2)   As used in this definition, “trade secret” has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 1333.61, and “telecommunications service” and “information service”
have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      (3)   As used in this definition and in the definition of “contraband” in
this section, “cable television service,” “computer,” “computer network,”
“computer software,” “computer system,” “data,” and “telecommunications device”
have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   (q)   “Provider agreement.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5164.01.
   (r)   “Public official.” Any elected or appointed officer, employee or agent
of the state or any political subdivision thereof, whether in a temporary or
permanent capacity, and includes but is not limited to legislators, judges and
law enforcement officers. The term does not include an employee, officer, or
governor-appointed member of the board of directors of the nonprofit
corporation formed under R.C. § 187.01.
   (s)   “Public servant.”
      (1)   Any of the following:
         A.   Any public official.
         B.   Any person performing ad hoc a governmental function, including
but not limited to a juror, member of a temporary commission, master,
arbitrator, advisor or consultant.
         C.   A person who is a candidate for public office, whether or not he
or she is elected or appointed to the office for which he or she is a
candidate. A person is a candidate for purposes of this division if he or she
has been nominated according to law for election or appointment to public
office, or if he or she has filed a petition or petitions as required by law to
have his or her name placed on the ballot in a primary, general or special
election, or if he or she campaigns as a write-in candidate in any primary,
general or special election.
      (2)   The term does not include an employee, officer, or governor-
appointed member of the board of directors of the nonprofit corporation formed
under R.C. § 187.01.
   (t)   “Risk.” A significant possibility, as contrasted with a remote
possibility, that a certain result may occur or that certain circumstances may
exist.
   (u)   “School,” “school building” and “school premises.” Have the same
meanings as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   (v)   “School activity.” Any activity held under the auspices of a board of
education of a city, local, exempted village, joint vocational or cooperative
education school district; a governing authority of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314; a governing board of an educational
service center; or the governing body of a nonpublic school for which the State
Board of Education prescribes minimum standards under R.C. § 3301.07.
   (w)   “School bus.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   (x)   “School safety zone.” Consists of a school, school building, school
premises, school activity and school bus.
   (y)   “Serious physical harm to persons.” Any of the following:
      (1)   Any mental illness or condition of such gravity as would normally
require hospitalization or prolonged psychiatric treatment;
      (2)   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death;
      (3)   Any physical harm that involves some permanent incapacity, whether
partial or total, or that involves some temporary, substantial incapacity;
      (4)   Any physical harm that involves some permanent disfigurement, or
that involves some temporary, serious disfigurement;
      (5)   Any physical harm that involves acute pain of such duration as to
result in substantial suffering, or that involves any degree of prolonged or
intractable pain.
   (z)   “Serious physical harm to property.” Any physical harm to property
that does either of the following:
      (1)   Results in substantial loss to the value of the property, or
requires a substantial amount of time, effort or money to repair or replace;
      (2)   Temporarily prevents the use or enjoyment of the property, or
substantially interferes with its use or enjoyment for an extended period of
time.
   (aa)   “Substantial risk.” A strong possibility, as contrasted with a remote
or significant possibility, that a certain result may occur or that certain
circumstances may exist.
   (bb)   “Valuable thing” or “valuable benefit.” Includes but is not limited
to a contribution. This inclusion does not indicate or imply that a
contribution was not included in those terms before September 17, 1986.
(R.C. § 2901.01, 2921.01)
§ 606.02 CLASSIFICATION OF OFFENSES.
   As used in this general offenses code:
   (a)   Offenses include misdemeanors of the first, second, third and fourth
degree, minor misdemeanors and offenses not specifically classified.
   (b)   Regardless of the penalty that may be imposed, any offense
specifically classified as a misdemeanor is a misdemeanor.
   (c)   Any offense not specifically classified is a misdemeanor if
imprisonment for not more than one year may be imposed as a penalty.
   (d)   Any offense not specifically classified is a minor misdemeanor if the
only penalty that may be imposed is one of the following:
      (1)   For an offense committed prior to January 1, 2004, a fine not
exceeding $100;
      (2)   For an offense committed on or after January 1, 2004, a fine not
exceeding $150, community service under R.C. § 2929.27(D), or a financial
sanction other than a fine under R.C. § 2929.28.
(R.C. § 2901.02)
§ 606.03 OFFENSES DEFINED.
   (a)   No conduct constitutes a criminal offense against the municipality
unless it is defined as an offense in this general offenses code.
   (b)   An offense is defined when one or more sections of this general
offenses code state a positive prohibition or enjoin a specific duty, and
provide a penalty for violation of the prohibition or failure to meet that
duty.
   (c)   This section does not affect the power of a court to punish for
contempt or to employ any sanction authorized by law to enforce an order, civil
judgment or decree.
(R.C. § 2901.03)
§ 606.04 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (c) or (d) of this section,
sections of this general offenses code defining offenses or penalties shall be
strictly construed against the municipality and liberally construed in favor of
the accused.
   (b)   Rules of criminal procedure and sections of this general offenses code
providing for criminal procedure shall be construed so as to effect the fair,
impartial, speedy and sure administration of justice.
   (c)   Any provision of a section of this general offenses code that refers
to a previous conviction of or plea of guilty to a violation of a section of
this general offenses code, the Ohio Revised Code or a division of a section of
this general offenses code or the Ohio Revised Code shall be construed to also
refer to a previous conviction of or plea of guilty to a substantially
equivalent offense under an existing or former law of this municipality, state,
another state or the United States or under an existing or former municipal
ordinance.
   (d)   Any provision of this code that refers to a section, or to a division
of a section, of this code that defines or specifies a criminal offense shall
be construed to also refer to an existing or former law of this state, another
state or the United States, to an existing or former municipal ordinance, or to
an existing or former division of any such existing or former law or ordinance
that defines or specifies, or that defined or specified, a substantially
equivalent offense.
(R.C. § 2901.04)
§ 606.05 CRIMINAL LAW JURISDICTION.
   (a)   A person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in this
municipality if any of the following occur:
      (1)   The person commits an offense under the laws of this municipality,
any element of which takes place in this municipality;
      (2)   While in this municipality, the person attempts to commit, or is
guilty of complicity in the commission of, an offense in another jurisdiction,
which offense is an offense under both the laws of this municipality and the
other jurisdiction, or, while in this municipality, the person conspires to
commit an offense in another jurisdiction, which offense is an offense under
both the laws of this municipality and the other jurisdiction, and a
substantial overt act in furtherance of the conspiracy is undertaken in this
municipality by the person or another person involved in the conspiracy,
subsequent to the person’s entrance into the conspiracy. In any case in which a
person attempts to commit, is guilty of complicity in the commission of, or
conspires to commit an offense in another jurisdiction as described in this
division, the person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in this
municipality for the attempt, complicity or conspiracy, and for any resulting
offense that is committed or completed in the other jurisdiction;
      (3)   While out of this municipality, the person conspires or attempts to
commit, or is guilty of complicity in the commission of, an offense in this
municipality;
      (4)   While out of this municipality, the person omits to perform a legal
duty imposed by the laws of this municipality, which omission affects a
legitimate interest of the municipality in protecting, governing or regulating
any person, property, thing, transaction or activity in this municipality;
      (5)   While out of this municipality, the person unlawfully takes or
retains property and subsequently brings any of the unlawfully taken or
retained property into this municipality;
      (6)   While out of this municipality, the person unlawfully takes or
entices another person and subsequently brings the other person into this
municipality;
      (7)   The person, by means of a computer, computer system, computer
network, telecommunication, telecommunications device, telecommunications
service or information service, causes or knowingly permits any writing, data,
image or other telecommunication to be disseminated or transmitted into this
municipality in violation of the law of this state or municipality.
   (b)   In homicide, the element referred to in division (a)(1) of this
section includes the act that causes death, the physical contact that causes
death, the death itself, or any other element that is set forth in the offense
in question. If any part of the body of a homicide victim is found in this
municipality, the death is presumed to have occurred within this municipality.
   (c)   (1)   This municipality includes the land and water within its
boundaries and the air space above that land and water, with respect to which
this municipality has either exclusive or concurrent legislative jurisdiction.
Where the boundary between this municipality and another jurisdiction is
disputed, the disputed territory is conclusively presumed to be within this
municipality for purposes of this section.
      (2)   The Courts of Common Pleas of Adams, Athens, Belmont, Brown,
Clermont, Columbiana, Gallia, Hamilton, Jefferson, Lawrence, Meigs, Monroe,
Scioto and Washington counties have jurisdiction beyond the north or northwest
shore of the Ohio River extending to the opposite shore line, between the
extended boundary lines of any adjacent counties or adjacent state. Each of
those Courts of Common Pleas has concurrent jurisdiction on the Ohio River with
any adjacent Court of Common Pleas that borders on that river and with any
court of Kentucky or of West Virginia that borders on the Ohio River and that
has jurisdiction on the Ohio River under the law of Kentucky or the law of West
Virginia, whichever is applicable, or under federal law.
   (d)   When an offense is committed under the laws of this municipality, and
it appears beyond a reasonable doubt that the offense or any element of the
offense took place either in this municipality or in another jurisdiction or
jurisdictions, but it cannot reasonably be determined in which it took place,
the offense or element is conclusively presumed to have taken place in this
municipality for purposes of this section.
   (e)   When a person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in
this municipality for an offense committed or completed outside this
municipality, the person is subject to all specifications for that offense that
would be applicable if the offense had been committed within this municipality.
   (f)   Any act, conduct or element that is a basis of a person being subject
under this section to criminal prosecution and punishment in this municipality
need not be committed personally by the person as long as it is committed by
another person who is in complicity or conspiracy with the person.
   (g)   This section shall be liberally construed, consistent with
constitutional limitations, to allow this municipality the broadest possible
jurisdiction over offenses and persons committing offenses in, or affecting,
this municipality.
   (h)   For purposes of division (a)(2) of this section, an overt act is
substantial when it is of a character that manifests a purpose on the part of
the actor that the object of the conspiracy should be completed.
   (i)   As used in this section, “computer,” “computer system,” “computer
network,” “information service,” “telecommunication,” “telecommunications
device,” “telecommunications service,” “data” and “writing” have the same
meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
(R.C. § 2901.11)
§ 606.06 LIMITATION ON CRIMINAL PROSECUTIONS.
   (a)   (1)   Except as provided in division (a)(2), (a)(3) or (a)(4) of this
section or as otherwise provided in this section, a prosecution shall be barred
unless it is commenced within the following periods after an offense is
committed:
         A.   For a felony, six years;
         B.   For a misdemeanor other than a minor misdemeanor, two years;
         C.   For a minor misdemeanor, six months.
      (2)   There is no period of limitation for the prosecution of a violation
of R.C. § 2903.01 or 2903.02.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (b) to (j) of this
section, a prosecution of any of the following offenses shall be barred unless
it is commenced within 20 years after the offense is committed:
         A.   A violation of R.C. § 2903.03, 2903.04, 2905.01, 2905.32,
2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.21, 2909.02, 2909.22, 2909.23, 2909.24, 2909.26,
2909.27, 2909.28, 2909.29, 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2911.12 or 2917.02, a
violation of R.C. § 2903.11 or 2903.12 if the victim is a peace officer, a
violation of R.C. § 2903.13 that is a felony, or a violation of former R.C. §
2907.12.
         B.   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing a violation set forth in division (a)(3)A. of this section.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (d) to (l) of this
section, a prosecution of a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 or a
conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in committing a
violation of either section shall be barred unless it is commenced within 25
years after the offense is committed.
   (b)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (b)(2) of this section,
if the period of limitation provided in division (a)(1) or (a)(3) of this
section has expired, prosecution shall be commenced for an offense of which an
element is fraud or breach of fiduciary duty within one year after discovery of
the offense either by an aggrieved person or by the aggrieved person’s legal
representative who is not a party to the offense.
      (2)   If the period of limitation provided in division (a)(1) or (a)(3)
of this section has expired, prosecution for a violation of R.C. § 2913.49
shall be commenced within five years after discovery of the offense either by
an aggrieved person or the aggrieved person’s legal representative who is not a
party to the offense.
   (c)   (1)   If the period of limitation provided in division (a)(1) or (a)
(3) of this section has expired, prosecution shall be commenced for the
following offenses during the following specified periods of time:
         A.   For an offense involving misconduct in office by a public servant
at any time while the accused remains a public servant, or within two years
thereafter;
         B.   For an offense by a person who is not a public servant but whose
offense is directly related to the misconduct in office of a public servant, at
any time while that public servant remains a public servant, or within two
years thereafter.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         A.   “Offense is directly related to the misconduct in office of a
public servant.” The phrase includes but is not limited to a violation of R.C.
§ 101.71, 101.91, 121.61 or 2921.13, 102.03(F) or (H), 2921.02(A), 2921.43(A)
or (B), or 3517.13(F) or (G), that is directly related to an offense involving
misconduct in office of a public servant, or a violation of any municipal
ordinance substantially equivalent to those Ohio Revised Code sections listed
in this division (c)(2)A.
         B.   “Public servant” has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.01.
   (d)   (1)   If a DNA record made in connection with the criminal
investigation of the commission of a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 is
determined to match another DNA record that is of an identifiable person and if
the time of the determination is later than 25 years after the offense is
committed, prosecution of that person for a violation of the section may be
commenced within five years after the determination is complete.
      (2)   If a DNA record made in connection with the criminal investigation
of the commission of a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 is determined to
match another DNA record that is of an identifiable person and if the time of
the determination is within 25 years after the offense is committed,
prosecution of that person for a violation of the section may be commenced
within the longer of 25 years after the offense is committed or five years
after the determination is complete.
      (3)   As used in this division, “DNA record” has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 109.573.
   (e)   An offense is committed when every element of the offense occurs. In
the case of an offense of which an element is a continuing course of conduct,
the period of limitation does not begin to run until the course of conduct or
the accused’s accountability for it terminates, whichever occurs first.
   (f)   A prosecution is commenced on the date an indictment is returned or an
information filed, or on the date a lawful arrest without a warrant is made, or
on the date a warrant, summons, citation or other process is issued, whichever
occurs first. A prosecution is not commenced by the return of an indictment or
the filing of an information unless reasonable diligence is exercised to issue
and execute process on the same. A prosecution is not commenced upon issuance
of a warrant, summons, citation or other process unless reasonable diligence is
exercised to execute the same.
   (g)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time when the corpus
delicti remains undiscovered.
   (h)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time when the
accused purposely avoids prosecution. Proof that the accused departed this
municipality or conceals the accused’s identity or whereabouts is prima facie
evidence of the accused’s purpose to avoid prosecution.
   (i)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time a prosecution
against the accused based on the same conduct is pending in this state, even
though the indictment, information or process that commenced the prosecution is
quashed or the proceedings on the indictment, information or process are set
aside or reversed on appeal.
   (j)   The period of limitation for a violation of this Part 6 or Title XXIX
of the Ohio Revised Code that involves a physical or mental wound, injury,
disability or condition of a nature that reasonably indicates abuse or neglect
of a child under 18 years of age or of a child with a developmental disability
or physical impairment under 21 years of age shall not begin to run until
either of the following occurs:
      (1)   The victim of the offense reaches the age of majority.
      (2)   A public children services agency, or a municipal or county peace
officer that is not the parent or guardian of the child, in the county in which
the child resides or in which the abuse or neglect is occurring or has occurred
has been notified that abuse or neglect is known, suspected or believed to have
occurred.
   (k)   As used in this section, “peace officer” has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2935.01.
   (l)   The amendments to divisions (a) and (d) of this section apply to a
violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 committed on and after July 16, 2015,
and apply to a violation of either of those sections committed prior to July
16, 2015, if prosecution for that violation was not barred under this section
as it existed on July 15, 2015.
(R.C. § 2901.13)
§ 606.07 REQUIREMENTS FOR CRIMINAL LIABILITY; VOLUNTARY INTOXICATION.
   (a)   Except as provided in division (b) of this section, a person is not
guilty of an offense unless both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person’s liability is based on conduct that includes either a
voluntary act, or an omission to perform an act or duty that the person is
capable of performing;
      (2)   The person has the requisite degree of culpability for each element
as to which a culpable mental state is specified by the language defining the
offense.
   (b)   When the language defining an offense does not specify any degree of
culpability, and plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict criminal
liability for the conduct described in the section, then culpability is not
required for a person to be guilty of the offense. The fact that one division
of a section plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict liability for an
offense defined in that division does not by itself plainly indicate a purpose
to impose strict criminal liability for an offense defined in other divisions
of the section that do not specify a degree of culpability.
   (c)   (1)   When language defining an element of an offense that is related
to knowledge or intent or to which mens rea could fairly be applied neither
specifies culpability nor plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict
liability, the element of the offense is established only if a person acts
recklessly.
      (2)   Division (c)(1) of this section does not apply to offenses defined
in R.C. Title XLV.
      (3)   Division (c)(1) of this section does not relieve the prosecution of
the burden of proving the culpable mental state required by any definition
incorporated into the offense.
   (d)   Voluntary intoxication may not be taken into consideration in
determining the existence of a mental state that is an element of a criminal
offense. Voluntary intoxication does not relieve a person of a duty to act if
failure to act constitutes a criminal offense. Evidence that a person was
voluntarily intoxicated may be admissible to show whether or not the person was
physically capable of performing the act with which the person is charged.
   (e)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Culpability.” Purpose, knowledge, recklessness or negligence, as
defined in R.C. § 2901.22.
      (2)   “Intoxication.” Includes but is not limited to intoxication
resulting from the ingestion of alcohol, a drug, or alcohol and a drug.
      (3)   “Involuntary acts.” Reflexes, convulsions, body movements during
unconsciousness or sleep, and body movements that are not otherwise a product
of the actor’s volition are “involuntary acts.”
      (4)   “Possession.” A voluntary act if the possessor knowingly procured
or received the thing possessed, or was aware of the possessor’s control of the
thing possessed for a sufficient time to have ended possession.
(R.C. § 2901.21)
§ 606.08 CULPABLE MENTAL STATES.
   (a)   A person acts purposely when it is the person’s specific intention to
cause a certain result, or, when the gist of the offense is a prohibition
against conduct of a certain nature, regardless of what the offender intends to
accomplish thereby, it is the offender’s specific intention to engage in
conduct of that nature.
   (b)   A person acts knowingly, regardless of purpose, when the person is
aware that the person’s conduct will probably cause a certain result or will
probably be of a certain nature. A person has knowledge of circumstances when
the person is aware that such circumstances probably exist. When knowledge of
the existence of a particular fact is an element of an offense, such knowledge
is established if a person subjectively believes that there is a high
probability of its existence and fails to make inquiry or acts with a conscious
purpose to avoid learning the fact.
   (c)   A person acts recklessly when, with heedless indifference to the
consequences, the person disregards a substantial and unjustifiable risk that
the person’s conduct is likely to cause a certain result or is likely to be of
a certain nature. A person is reckless with respect to circumstances when, with
heedless indifference to the consequences, the person disregards a substantial
and unjustifiable risk that such circumstances are likely to exist.
   (d)   A person acts negligently when, because of a substantial lapse from
due care, the person fails to perceive or avoid a risk that the person’s
conduct may cause a certain result or may be of a certain nature. A person is
negligent with respect to circumstances when, because of a substantial lapse
from due care, the person fails to perceive or avoid a risk that such
circumstances may exist.
   (e)   When the section defining an offense provides that negligence suffices
to establish an element thereof, then recklessness, knowledge or purpose is
also sufficient culpability for that element. When recklessness suffices to
establish an element of an offense, then knowledge or purpose is also
sufficient culpability for that element. When knowledge suffices to establish
an element of an offense, then purpose is also sufficient culpability for that
element.
(R.C. § 2901.22)
§ 606.09 ORGANIZATIONAL CRIMINAL LIABILITY.
   (a)   An organization may be convicted of an offense under any of the
following circumstances:
      (1)   The offense is a minor misdemeanor committed by an officer, agent
or employee of the organization acting in its behalf and within the scope of
the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s office or employment, except that if the
section defining the offense designates the officers, agents or employees for
whose conduct the organization is accountable or the circumstances under which
it is accountable, those provisions shall apply.
      (2)   A purpose to impose organizational liability plainly appears in the
section defining the offense, and the offense is committed by an officer, agent
or employee of the organization acting in its behalf and within the scope of
the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s office or employment, except that if the
section defining the offense designates the officers, agents or employees for
whose conduct the organization is accountable or the circumstances under which
it is accountable, those provisions shall apply.
      (3)   The offense consists of an omission to discharge a specific duty
imposed by law on the organization.
      (4)   If, acting with the kind of culpability otherwise required for the
commission of the offense, its commission was authorized, requested, commanded,
tolerated or performed by the board of directors, trustees, partners, or by a
high managerial officer, agent or employee acting in behalf of the organization
and within the scope of such a board’s or person’s office or employment.
   (b)   If strict liability is imposed for the commission of an offense, a
purpose to impose organizational liability shall be presumed, unless the
contrary plainly appears.
   (c)   In a prosecution of an organization for an offense other than one for
which strict liability is imposed, it is a defense that the high managerial
officer, agent or employee having supervisory responsibility over the subject
matter of the offense exercised due diligence to prevent its commission. This
defense is not available if it plainly appears inconsistent with the purpose of
the section defining the offense.
   (d)   As used in this section, “organization” means a corporation for profit
or not for profit, partnership, limited partnership, joint venture,
unincorporated nonprofit association, estate, trust or other commercial or
legal entity. “Organization” does not include an entity organized as or by a
governmental agency for the execution of a governmental program.
(R.C. § 2901.23)
§ 606.10 PERSONAL ACCOUNTABILITY FOR ORGANIZATIONAL CONDUCT.
   (a)   An officer, agent or employee of an organization, as defined in R.C. §
2901.23, may be prosecuted for an offense committed by the organization, if he
or she acts with the kind of culpability required for the commission of the
offense, and any of the following apply:
      (1)   In the name of the organization or in its behalf, he or she engages
in conduct constituting the offense, or causes another to engage in that
conduct, or tolerates that conduct when it is of a type for which he or she has
direct responsibility;
      (2)   He or she has primary responsibility to discharge a duty imposed on
the organization by law, and the duty is not discharged.
   (b)   When a person is convicted of an offense by reason of this section, he
or she is subject to the same penalty as if he or she had acted in his or her
own behalf.
(R.C. § 2901.24)
§ 606.11 ATTEMPTS.
   (a)   No person, purposely or knowingly, and when purpose or knowledge is
sufficient culpability for the commission of an offense, shall engage in
conduct that, if successful, would constitute or result in the offense.
   (b)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that, in retrospect,
commission of the offense that was the object of the attempt was either
factually or legally impossible under the attendant circumstances, if that
offense could have been committed had the attendant circumstances been as the
actor believed them to be.
   (c)   No person who is convicted of committing a specific offense, of
complicity in the commission of an offense or of conspiracy to commit an
offense, shall be convicted of an attempt to commit the same offense in
violation of this section.
   (d)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that the
actor abandoned his or her effort to commit the offense or otherwise prevented
its commission, under circumstances manifesting a complete and voluntary
renunciation of his or her criminal purpose.
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of an attempt to commit an
offense. An attempt to commit aggravated murder, murder or an offense for which
the maximum penalty is imprisonment for life is a felony of the first degree,
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. An attempt to commit a drug abuse
offense for which the penalty is determined by the amount or number of unit
doses of the controlled substance involved in the drug abuse offense is an
offense of the same degree as the drug abuse offense attempted would be if that
drug abuse offense had been committed and had involved an amount or number of
unit doses of the controlled substance that is within the next lower range of
controlled substance amounts than was involved in the attempt. An attempt to
commit any other offense is an offense of the next lesser degree than the
offense attempted. In the case of an attempt to commit an offense other than a
violation of R.C. Chapter 3734 that is not specifically classified, an attempt
is a misdemeanor of the first degree if the offense attempted is a felony, and
a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if the offense attempted is a misdemeanor.
In the case of an attempt to commit a violation of any provision of R.C.
Chapter 3734, other than R.C. § 3734.18, that relates to hazardous wastes, an
attempt is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. An attempt to
commit a minor misdemeanor, or to engage in conspiracy, is not an offense under
this section.
   (f)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Drug abuse offense.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
      (2)   “Motor vehicle.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
(R.C. § 2923.02)
§ 606.12 COMPLICITY.
   (a)   No person, acting with the kind of culpability required for the
commission of an offense, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Solicit or procure another to commit the offense;
      (2)   Aid or abet another in committing the offense;
      (3)   Conspire with another to commit the offense in violation of R.C. §
2923.01;
      (4)   Cause an innocent or irresponsible person to commit the offense.
   (b)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that no person with
whom the accused was in complicity has been convicted as a principal offender.
   (c)   No person shall be convicted of complicity under this section unless
an offense is actually committed, but a person may be convicted of complicity
in an attempt to commit an offense in violation of R.C. § 2923.02 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (d)   If an alleged accomplice of the defendant testifies against the
defendant in a case in which the defendant is charged with complicity in the
commission of or an attempt to commit an offense, an attempt to commit an
offense, or an offense, the court shall charge the jury in accordance with R.C.
§ 2923.03(D).
   (e)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that,
prior to the commission of or attempt to commit the offense, the actor
terminated his or her complicity, under circumstances manifesting a complete
and voluntary renunciation of his or her criminal purpose.
   (f)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of complicity in the
commission of an offense, and shall be prosecuted and punished as if he or she
were a principal offender. A charge of complicity may be stated in terms of
this section, or in terms of the principal offense.
(R.C. § 2923.03)
§ 606.13 SELF DEFENSE; LIMITATIONS ON DUTY TO RETREAT PRIOR TO USING FORCE.
   (a)   As used in this section, "residence" has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2901.05.
   (b)   For purposes of any section of this code that sets forth a criminal
offense, a person has no duty to retreat before using force in self-defense,
defense of another, or defense of that person's residence if that person is in
a place in which the person lawfully has a right to be.
   (c)   A trier of fact shall not consider the possibility of retreat as a
factor in determining whether or not a person who used force in self-defense,
defense of another, or defense of that person's residence reasonably believed
that the force was necessary to prevent injury, loss, or risk to life or
safety.
(R.C. § 2901.09)
CHAPTER 608: PUBLIC SERVICE, ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
Section
608.01   Falsification
608.02   False report of child abuse or neglect
608.03   Compounding a crime
608.04   Failure to report a crime or death
608.05   Failure to aid a law enforcement officer
608.06   Obstructing official business
608.07   Obstructing justice
608.08   Resisting arrest
608.09   Compliance with lawful order of police officer; fleeing
608.10   Having an unlawful interest in a public contract
608.11   Soliciting or receiving improper compensation
608.12   Dereliction of duty
608.13   Interfering with civil rights
608.14   Impersonating an officer
608.15   Display of law enforcement agency emblem
608.16   Disposition of unclaimed or forfeited property held by Police
Department
608.17   Detention of shoplifters and those committing motion picture piracy;
protection of institutional property
608.18   Failure to disclose personal information
608.19   Misuse of 9-1-1 system
608.20   Using sham legal process
Statutory reference:
   Arrest without warrant for misdemeanor, see R.C. § 2935.03
   Criteria for probation; conditions of probation, see R.C. § 2951.02    
   Degree of offense; charge and verdict; prior conviction, see R.C. § 2945.75
   Discharge for delay in trial, see R.C. § 2945.73
   Extension of time for hearing or trial, see R.C. § 2945.72
   Procedure on affidavit or complaint; withdrawal of unexecuted warrants, see
R.C. § 2935.10
   Registration of sex offenders in cities and counties, see R.C. § 2950.01 et
seq.
   Right of trial by jury, see R.C. § 2945.17
   Satisfaction of fine; credit for time served, see R.C. § 2947.14
   Time within which hearing or trial must be held, see R.C. § 2945.71
   Treatment of drug dependent persons in lieu of conviction, see R.C. §
2951.041
Cross-reference:
   Declaratory judgment in sex related offenses, see §
666.16
   Injunction and abatement of nuisance in sex related offenses, see §
666.17
   Justifiable use of force to suppress riot, see §
648.03
   License or permit to possess dangerous ordnance, see §
678.05    
   Making false alarms, see §
648.08
   Misconduct at an emergency, see §
648.06
   Penalties and sentencing, see
Ch. 698
   Rabies quarantine, see §
618.11
   Registration of dogs, see §
618.08
   Rules of evidence in sex related offenses, see §
666.09
§ 608.01 FALSIFICATION.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement, or knowingly swear
or affirm the truth of a false statement previously made, when any of the
following applies:
      (1)   The statement is made in any official proceeding.
      (2)   The statement is made with purpose to incriminate another.
      (3)   The statement is made with purpose to mislead a public official in
performing his or her official function.
      (4)   The statement is made with purpose to secure the payment of
unemployment compensation; Ohio Works First; prevention, retention and
contingency benefits and services; disability financial assistance; retirement
benefits or health care coverage from a state retirement system; economic
development assistance as defined in R.C. § 9.66; or other benefits
administered by a governmental agency or paid out of a public treasury.
      (5)   The statement is made with purpose to secure the issuance by a
governmental agency of a license, permit, authorization, certificate,
registration, release or provider agreement.
      (6)   The statement is sworn or affirmed before a notary public or
another person empowered to administer oaths.
      (7)   The statement is in writing on or in connection with a report or
return that is required or authorized by law.
      (8)   The statement is in writing, and is made with purpose to induce
another to extend credit to or employ the offender, or to confer any degree,
diploma, certificate of attainment, award of excellence or honor on the
offender, or to extend to or bestow upon the offender any other valuable
benefit or distinction, when the person to whom the statement is directed
relies upon it to his or her detriment.
      (9)   The statement is made with purpose to commit or facilitate the
commission of a theft offense.
      (10)   The statement is knowingly made to a probate court in connection
with any action, proceeding or other matter within its jurisdiction, either
orally or in a written document, including but not limited to an application,
petition, complaint or other pleading, or an inventory, account or report.
      (11)   The statement is made on an account, form, record, stamp, label or
other writing that is required by law.
      (12)   The statement is made in connection with the purchase of a
firearm, as defined in R.C. § 2923.11, and in conjunction with the furnishing
to the seller of the firearm of a fictitious or altered driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit, a fictitious or altered identification card, or any
other document that contains false information about the purchaser’s identity.
      (13)   The statement is made in a document or instrument of writing that
purports to be a judgment, lien or claim of indebtedness and is filed or
recorded with the Secretary of State, a County Recorder, or the clerk of a
court of record.
      (14)   The statement is made in an application filed with a county
sheriff pursuant to R.C. § 2923.125 in order to obtain or renew a concealed
handgun license or is made in an affidavit submitted to a county sheriff to
obtain a concealed handgun license on a temporary emergency basis under R.C. §
2923.1213.
      (15)   The statement is required under R.C. § 5743.71 in connection with
the person’s purchase of cigarettes or tobacco products in a delivery sale.
   (b)   No person, in connection with the purchase of a firearm as defined in
R.C. § 2923.11, shall knowingly furnish to the seller of the firearm a
fictitious or altered driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit, a
fictitious or altered identification card, or any other document that contains
false information about the purchaser’s identity.
   (c)   No person, in an attempt to obtain a concealed handgun license under
R.C. § 2923.125, shall knowingly present to a sheriff a fictitious or altered
document that purports to be certification of the person’s competence in
handling a handgun as described in division (B)(3) of that section.
   (d)   It is no defense to a charge under division (a)(6) of this section
that the oath or affirmation was administered or taken in an irregular manner.
   (e)   If contradictory statements relating to the same fact are made by the
offender within the period of the statute of limitations for falsification, it
is not necessary for the prosecution to prove which statement was false, but
only that one or the other was false.
   (f)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)
(5), (a)(6), (a)(7), (a)(8), (a)(10), (a)(11), (a)(13) or (a)(15) of this
section is guilty of falsification. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, falsification is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (a)(9) of this section is guilty of
falsification in a theft offense. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, falsification in a theft offense is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the value of the property or services stolen is $1,000 or more,
falsification in a theft offense is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (a)(12) or (b) of this section is guilty
of falsification to purchase a firearm, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (a)(14) or (c) of this section is guilty
of falsification to obtain a concealed handgun license, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section in removal
proceedings under R.C. § 319.26, 321.37, 507.13 or 733.78 is guilty of
falsification regarding a removal proceeding, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.13)
   (g)   (1)   No person who has knowingly failed to maintain proof of
financial responsibility in accordance with R.C. § 4509.101 shall produce any
document or present to a peace officer an electronic wireless communications
device that is displaying any text or images with the purpose to mislead a
peace officer upon the request of a peace officer for proof of financial
responsibility made in accordance with R.C. § 4509.101(D)(2).
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (g) is guilty of falsification, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4509.102)
Statutory reference:
   Civil liability for violations of this section, see R.C. § 2921.13(G)
§ 608.02 FALSE REPORT OF CHILD ABUSE OR NEGLECT.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly make or cause another person to make a false
report under R.C. § 2151.421(B) alleging that any person has committed an act
or omission that resulted in a child being an abused child as defined in R.C. §
2151.031 or a neglected child as defined in R.C. § 2151.03.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making or causing a false
report of child abuse or child neglect, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.14)
§ 608.03 COMPOUNDING A CRIME.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly demand, accept or agree to accept anything
of value in consideration of abandoning or agreeing to abandon a pending
criminal prosecution.
   (b)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section when both
of the following apply:
      (1)   The pending prosecution involved is for a violation of R.C. §
2913.02, 2913.11, 2913.21(B)(2) or 2913.47, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, of which the actor under this section was the victim.
      (2)   The thing of value demanded, accepted or agreed to be accepted, in
consideration of abandoning or agreeing to abandon the prosecution, did not
exceed an amount that the actor reasonably believed due him or her as
restitution for the loss caused him or her by the offense.
   (c)   When a prosecuting witness abandons or agrees to abandon a prosecution
under division (b) of this section, the abandonment or agreement in no way
binds the state to abandoning the prosecution.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of compounding a crime, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.21)
§ 608.04 FAILURE TO REPORT A CRIME OR DEATH.
   (a)   (1)   Except as provided in division (a)(2) of this section, no
person, knowing that a felony has been or is being committed, shall knowingly
fail to report the information to law enforcement authorities.
      (2)   No person, knowing that a violation of R.C. § 2913.04(B) has been
or is being committed or that the person has received information derived from
such a violation, shall knowingly fail to report the violation to law
enforcement authorities.
   (b)   Except for conditions that are within the scope of division (e) of
this section, no person giving aid to a sick or injured person shall
negligently fail to report to law enforcement authorities any gunshot or stab
wound treated or observed by the person, or any serious physical harm to
persons that the person knows or has reasonable cause to believe resulted from
an offense of violence.
   (c)   No person who discovers the body or acquires the first knowledge of
the death of a person shall fail to report the death immediately to a physician
or advanced practice registered nurse whom the person knows to be treating the
deceased for a condition from which death at such time would not be unexpected,
or to a law enforcement officer, an ambulance service, an emergency squad, or
the coroner in a political subdivision in which the body is discovered, the
death is believed to have occurred, or knowledge concerning the death is
obtained. For purposes of this division, “advanced practice registered nurse”
does not include a certified registered nurse anesthetist.
   (d)   No person shall fail to provide upon request of the person to whom a
report required by division (c) of this section was made, or to any law
enforcement officer who has reasonable cause to assert the authority to
investigate the circumstances surrounding the death, any facts within his or
her knowledge that may have a bearing on the investigation of the death.
   (e)   (1)   As used in this section, “burn injury” means any of the
following:
         A.   Second or third degree burns;
         B.   Any burns to the upper respiratory tract or laryngeal edema due
to the inhalation of super-heated air;
         C.   Any burn injury or wound that may result in death.
      (2)   No physician, nurse physician assistant, or limited practitioner
who, outside a hospital, sanitarium or other medical facility, attends or
treats a person who has sustained a burn injury inflicted by an explosion or
other incendiary device, or that shows evidence of having been inflicted in a
violent, malicious or criminal manner, shall fail to report the burn injury
immediately to the local arson bureau, if there is such a bureau in the
jurisdiction in which the person is attended or treated, or otherwise to local
law enforcement authorities.
      (3)   No manager, superintendent or other person in charge of a hospital,
sanitarium or other medical facility in which a person is attended or treated
for any burn injury inflicted by an explosion or other incendiary device, or
that shows evidence of having been inflicted in a violent, malicious or
criminal manner, shall fail to report the burn injury immediately to the local
arson bureau, if there is such a bureau in the jurisdiction in which the person
is attended or treated, or otherwise to local law enforcement authorities.
      (4)   No person who is required to report any burn injury under division
(e)(2) or (e)(3) of this section shall fail to file, within three working days
after attending or treating the victim, a written report of the burn injury
with the office of the State Fire Marshal. The report shall be made on a form
provided by the State Fire Marshal.
   (5)   Anyone participating in the making of reports under division (e) of
this section or anyone participating in a judicial proceeding resulting from
the reports is immune from any civil or criminal liability that otherwise might
be incurred or imposed as a result of such actions. Notwithstanding R.C. §
4731.22, the physician-patient relationship or advanced practice registered
nurse-patient relationship is not a ground for excluding evidence regarding a
person’s burn injury or the cause of the burn injury in any judicial proceeding
resulting from a report submitted under division (e) of this section.
   (f)   (1)   Any doctor of medicine or osteopathic medicine, hospital intern
or resident, nurse, psychologist, social worker, independent social worker,
social work assistant, licensed professional clinical counselor, licensed
professional counselor, independent marriage and family therapist, or marriage
and family therapist who knows or has reasonable cause to believe that a
patient or client has been the victim of domestic violence, as defined in R.C.
§ 3113.31, shall note that knowledge or belief and the basis for it in the
patient’s or client’s records.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 4731.22, the physician-patient privilege or
advanced practice registered nurse-patient privilege shall not be a ground for
excluding any information regarding the report containing the knowledge or
belief noted under division (f)(1) of this section, and the information may be
admitted as evidence in accordance with the Rules of Evidence.
   (g)   Division (a) or (d) of this section does not require disclosure of
information, when any of the following applies:
      (1)   The information is privileged by reason of the relationship between
attorney and client; physician and patient; advanced practice registered nurse
and patient; licensed psychologist or licensed school psychologist and client;
licensed professional clinical counselor, licensed professional counselor,
independent social worker, social worker, independent marriage and family
therapist, or marriage and family therapist and client; member of the clergy,
rabbi, minister, or priest and any person communicating information
confidentially to the member of the clergy, rabbi, minister, or priest for a
religious counseling purpose of a professional character; husband and wife; or
a communications assistant and those who are a party to a telecommunications
relay service call.
      (2)   The information would tend to incriminate a member of the actor’s
immediate family.
      (3)   Disclosure of the information would amount to revealing a news
source, privileged under R.C. § 2739.04 or 2739.12.
      (4)   Disclosure of the information would amount to disclosure by a
member of the ordained clergy of an organized religious body of a confidential
communication made to him or her in his or her capacity as such by a person
seeking his or her aid or counsel.
      (5)   Disclosure would amount to revealing information acquired by the
actor in the course of his or her duties in connection with a bona fide program
of treatment or services for drug dependent persons or persons in danger of
drug dependence, which program is maintained or conducted by a hospital,
clinic, person, agency or community addiction services provider whose alcohol
and drug addiction services are certified pursuant to R.C. § 5119.36.
      (6)   Disclosure would amount to revealing information acquired by the
actor in the course of his or her duties in connection with a bona fide program
for providing counseling services to victims of crimes that are violations of
R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.05, or to victims of felonious sexual penetration in
violation of former R.C. § 2907.12. As used in this division, “counseling
services” include services provided in an informal setting by a person who, by
education or experience, is competent to provide those services.
   (h)   No disclosure of information pursuant to this section gives rise to
any liability or recrimination for a breach of privilege or confidence.
   (i)   Whoever violates division (a) or (b) of this section is guilty of
failure to report a crime. Violation of division (a)(1) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Violation of division (a)(2) or (b) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (j)   Whoever violates division (c) or (d) of this section is guilty of
failure to report knowledge of a death, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (k)   (1)   Whoever negligently violates division (e) of this section is
guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Whoever knowingly violates division (e) of this section is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (l)   As used in this section, “nurse” includes an advanced practice
registered nurse, registered nurse, and licensed practical nurse.
(R.C. § 2921.22)
§ 608.05 FAILURE TO AID A LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (a)   No person shall negligently fail or refuse to aid a law enforcement
officer, when called upon for assistance in preventing or halting the
commission of an offense, or in apprehending or detaining an offender, when the
aid can be given without a substantial risk of physical harm to the person
giving it.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to aid a law
enforcement officer, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2921.23)
§ 608.06 OBSTRUCTING OFFICIAL BUSINESS.
   (a)   No person, without privilege to do so and with purpose to prevent,
obstruct or delay the performance by a public official of any authorized act
within the public official’s official capacity, shall do any act that hampers
or impedes a public official in the performance of the public official’s lawful
duties.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of obstructing official
business. Except as otherwise provided in this division, obstructing official
business is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If a violation of this section
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, obstructing official business is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.31)
§ 608.07 OBSTRUCTING JUSTICE.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to hinder the discovery, apprehension,
prosecution, conviction or punishment of another for crime, or to assist
another to benefit from the commission of a crime, and no person, with purpose
to hinder the discovery, apprehension, prosecution, adjudication as a
delinquent child, or disposition of a child for an act that if committed by an
adult would be a crime or to assist a child to benefit from the commission of
an act that if committed by an adult would be a crime, shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Harbor or conceal the other person or child.
      (2)   Provide the other person or child with money, transportation, a
weapon, a disguise or other means of avoiding discovery or apprehension.
      (3)   Warn the other person or child of impending discovery or
apprehension.
      (4)   Destroy or conceal physical evidence of the crime or act, or induce
any person to withhold testimony or information or to elude legal process
summoning him or her to testify or supply evidence.
      (5)   Communicate false information to any person.
      (6)   Prevent or obstruct any person, by means of force, intimidation or
deception, from performing any act to aid in the discovery, apprehension or
prosecution of the other person or child.
   (b)   A person may be prosecuted for, and may be convicted of or adjudicated
a delinquent child for committing, a violation of division (a) of this section
regardless of whether the person or child aided ultimately is apprehended for,
is charged with, is convicted of, pleads guilty to or is adjudicated a
delinquent child for committing the crime or act the person or child aided
committed. The crime or act the person or child aided committed shall be used
under division (c) of this section in determining the penalty for violation of
division (a) of this section, regardless of whether the person or child aided
ultimately is apprehended for, is charged with, is convicted of, pleads guilty
to or is adjudicated a delinquent child for committing the crime or act the
person or child aided committed.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of obstructing justice.
      (1)   If the crime committed by the person aided is a misdemeanor or if
the act committed by the child aided would be a misdemeanor if committed by an
adult, obstructing justice is a misdemeanor of the same degree as the crime
committed by the person aided or a misdemeanor of the same degree that the act
committed by the child aided would be if committed by an adult.
      (2)   If the crime committed by the person aided is a felony or if the
act committed by the child aided would be a felony if committed by an adult, or
if the crime or act committed by the person or child aided is an act of
terrorism, obstructing justice is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (d)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Act of terrorism.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.21.
      (2)   “Adult” and “child.” Have the same meaning as in R.C. § 2151.011.
      (3)   “Delinquent child.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2152.02.
(R.C. § 2921.32)
§ 608.08 RESISTING ARREST.
   (a)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of himself, herself or another.
   (b)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of the person or another person and, during the course of or as a
result of the resistance or interference, cause physical harm to a law
enforcement officer.
   (c)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of the person or another person if either of the following
applies:
      (1)   The offender, during the course of or as a result of the resistance
or interference, recklessly causes physical harm to a law enforcement officer
by means of a deadly weapon; or
      (2)   The offender, during the course of the resistance or interference,
brandishes a deadly weapon.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of resisting arrest. A
violation of division (a) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. A violation of division (b) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. A violation of division (c) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (e)   As used in this section, “deadly weapon” has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2923.11.
(R.C. § 2921.33)
Statutory reference:
   Unlawful taking of deadly weapon from law enforcement officer, felony, see
R.C. § 2911.01
§ 608.09 COMPLIANCE WITH LAWFUL ORDER OF POLICE OFFICER; FLEEING.
   (a)   No person shall fail to comply with any lawful order or direction of
any police officer invested with authority to direct, control or regulate
traffic.
   (b)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle so as willfully to elude or
flee a police officer after receiving a visible or audible signal from a police
officer to bring the person’s motor vehicle to a stop.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to comply
with an order or signal of a police officer.
      (2)   A violation of division (a) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (3)   Except as provided in divisions (c)(4) and (c)(5) of this section,
a violation of division (b) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (c)(5) of this section, a violation
of division (b) of this section is a felony and shall be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the jury or judge as trier of fact finds by proof
beyond a reasonable doubt that in committing the offense, the offender was
fleeing immediately after the commission of a felony.
      (5)   A.   A violation of division (b) of this section is a felony and
shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the jury or judge as trier
of fact finds any of the following by proof beyond a reasonable doubt:
            1.   The operation of the motor vehicle by the offender was a
proximate cause of serious physical harm to persons or property.
            2.   The operation of the motor vehicle by the offender caused a
substantial risk of serious physical harm to persons or property.
         B.   If a police officer pursues an offender who is violating division
(b) of this section and division (c)(5)A. of this section applies, the
sentencing court, in determining the seriousness of an offender’s conduct for
purposes of sentencing the offender for a violation of division (b) of this
section, shall consider, along with the factors set forth in R.C. § 2929.12 and
2929.13 that are required to be considered, all of the following:
            1.   The duration of the pursuit;
            2.   The distance of the pursuit;
            3.   The rate of speed at which the offender operated the motor
vehicle during the pursuit;
            4.   Whether the offender failed to stop for traffic lights or stop
signs during the pursuit;
            5.   The number of traffic lights or stop signs for which the
offender failed to stop during the pursuit;
            6.   Whether the offender operated the motor vehicle during the
pursuit without lighted lights during a time when lighted lights are required;
            7.   Whether the offender committed a moving violation during the
pursuit;
            8.   The number of moving violations the offender committed during
the pursuit;
            9.   Any other relevant factors indicating that the offender’s
conduct is more serious than conduct normally constituting the offense.
   (d)   In addition to any other sanction imposed for a violation of division
(a) of this section or a misdemeanor violation of division (b) of this section,
the court shall impose a class five suspension from the range specified in R.C.
§ 4510.02(A)(5). If the offender previously has been found guilty of an offense
under this section or under R.C. § 2921.331 or any other substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, in addition to any other sanction imposed for
the offense, the court shall impose a class one suspension as described in R.C.
§ 4510.02(A)(1). The court may grant limited driving privileges to the offender
on a suspension imposed for a misdemeanor violation of this section as set
forth in R.C. § 4510.021. No judge shall suspend any portion of the suspension
under a class one suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege
required by this division.
   (e)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Moving violation.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2743.70.
      (2)   “Police officer.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 2921.331(A) - (C), (E), (F))
§ 608.10 HAVING AN UNLAWFUL INTEREST IN A PUBLIC CONTRACT.
   (a)   No public official shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Authorize or employ the authority of the public official’s office
to secure authorization of any public contract in which the public official, a
member of the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s
business associates has an interest.
      (2)   Authorize or employ the authority or influence of the public
official’s office to secure the investment of public funds in any share, bond,
mortgage or other security with respect to which the public official, a member
of the public official’s family or any of the public official’s business
associates either has an interest, is an underwriter or receives any brokerage,
origination or servicing fees.
      (3)   During the public official’s term of office or within one year
thereafter, occupy any position of profit in the prosecution of a public
contract authorized by the public official or by a legislative body, commission
or board of which the public official was a member at the time of
authorization, unless the contract was let by competitive bidding to the lowest
and best bidder.
      (4)   Have an interest in the profits or benefits of a public contract
entered into by or for the use of the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality with which the public official is connected.
      (5)   Have an interest in the profits or benefits of a public contract
that is not let by competitive bidding when required by law, and that involves
more than $150.
   (b)   In the absence of bribery or a purpose to defraud, a public official,
member of a public official’s family or any of a public official’s business
associates shall not be considered as having an interest in a public contract
or the investment of public funds, if all of the following apply:
      (1)   The interest of that person is limited to owning or controlling
shares of the corporation, or being a creditor of the corporation or other
organization, that is the contractor on the public contract involved, or that
is the issuer of the security in which public funds are invested.
      (2)   The shares owned or controlled by that person do not exceed 5% of
the outstanding shares of the corporation, and the amount due that person as
creditor does not exceed 5% of the total indebtedness of the corporation or
other organization.
      (3)   That person, prior to the time the public contract is entered into,
files with the political subdivision or governmental agency or instrumentality
involved, an affidavit giving that person’s exact status in connection with the
corporation or other organization.
   (c)   This section does not apply to a public contract in which a public
official, member of a public official’s family, or one of a public official’s
business associates has an interest, when all of the following apply:
      (1)   The subject of the public contract is necessary supplies or
services for the political subdivision or governmental agency or
instrumentality involved.
      (2)   The supplies or services are unobtainable elsewhere for the same or
lower cost, or are being furnished to the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality as part of a continuing course of dealing established
prior to the public official’s becoming associated with the political
subdivision or governmental agency or instrumentality involved.
      (3)   The treatment accorded the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality is either preferential to or the same as that
accorded other customers or clients in similar transactions.
      (4)   The entire transaction is conducted at arm’s length, with full
knowledge by the political subdivision or governmental agency or
instrumentality involved, of the interest of the public official, member of the
public official’s family, or business associate, and the public official takes
no part in the deliberations or decision of the political subdivision or
governmental agency or instrumentality with respect to the public contract.
   (d)   Division (a)(4) of this section does not prohibit participation by a
public employee in any housing program funded by public moneys if the public
employee otherwise qualifies for the program and does not use the authority or
influence of the public employee’s office or employment to secure benefits from
the program and if the moneys are to be used on the primary residence of the
public employee. This participation does not constitute an unlawful interest in
a public contract in violation of this section.
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of having an unlawful interest
in a public contract. Violation of division (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. Violation of division
(a)(3), (a)(4) or (a)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (f)   It is not a violation of this section for a prosecuting attorney to
appoint assistants and employees in accordance with R.C. § 309.06 and 2921.421,
or for a chief legal officer of a municipality or an official designated as
prosecutor in a municipality to appoint assistants and employees in accordance
with R.C. § 733.621 and 2921.421, or for a township law director appointed
under R.C. § 504.15 to appoint assistants and employees in accordance with R.C.
§ 504.151 and 2921.421.
   (g)   Any public contract in which a public official, a member of the public
official’s family or any of the public official’s business associates has an
interest in violation of this section is void and unenforceable. Any contract
securing the investment of public funds in which a public official, a member of
the public official’s family or any of the public official’s business
associates has an interest, is an underwriter or receives any brokerage,
origination or servicing fees and that was entered into in violation of this
section is void and unenforceable.
   (h)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Chief legal officer.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 733.621.
      (2)   “Public contract.” Any of the following:
         A.   The purchase or acquisition, or a contract for the purchase or
acquisition, of property or services by or for the use of the state or any of
its political subdivisions, or any agency or instrumentality of either,
including the employment of an individual by the state, any of its political
subdivisions, or any agency or instrumentality of either.
         B.   A contract for the design, construction, alteration, repair or
maintenance of any public property.
(R.C. § 2921.42)
§ 608.11 SOLICITING OR RECEIVING IMPROPER COMPENSATION.
   (a)   No public servant shall knowingly solicit or accept and no person
shall knowingly promise or give to a public servant either of the following:
      (1)   Any compensation, other than as allowed by R.C. § 102.03(G), (H),
(I) or other provisions of law, to perform the public servant’s official
duties, to perform any other act or service in the public servant’s public
capacity, for the general performance of the duties of the public servant’s
public office or public employment, or as a supplement to the public servant’s
public compensation.
      (2)   Additional or greater fees or costs than are allowed by law to
perform the public servant’s official duties.
   (b)   No public servant for the public servant’s own personal or business
use and no person for the person’s own personal or business use or for the
personal or business use of a public servant or party official, shall solicit
or accept anything of value in consideration of either of the following:
      (1)   Appointing or securing, maintaining or renewing the appointment of
any person to any public office, employment or agency.
      (2)   Preferring, or maintaining the status of, any public employee with
respect to compensation, duties, placement, location, promotion or other
material aspects of employment.
   (c)   No person for the benefit of a political party, campaign committee,
legislative campaign fund, political action committee or political contributing
entity shall coerce any contribution in consideration of either of the
following:
      (1)   Appointing or securing, maintaining or renewing the appointment of
any person to any public office, employment or agency.
      (2)   Preferring, or maintaining the status of, any public employee with
respect to compensation, duties, placement, location, promotion or other
material aspects of employment.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of soliciting improper
compensation, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (e)   A public servant who is convicted of a violation of this section is
disqualified from holding any public office, employment or position of trust in
this state for a period of seven years from the date of conviction.
   (f)   Divisions (a), (b) and (c) of this section do not prohibit any person
from making voluntary contributions to a political party, campaign committee,
legislative campaign fund, political action committee or political contributing
entity or prohibit a political party, campaign committee, legislative campaign
fund, political action committee or political contributing entity from
accepting voluntary contributions.
(R.C. § 2921.43)
§ 608.12 DERELICTION OF DUTY.
   (a)   No law enforcement officer shall negligently do any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to serve a lawful warrant without delay.
      (2)   Fail to prevent or halt the commission of an offense or to
apprehend an offender, when it is in the law enforcement officer’s power to do
so alone or with available assistance.
   (b)   No law enforcement, ministerial or judicial officer shall negligently
fail to perform a lawful duty in a criminal case or proceeding.
   (c)   No officer, having charge of a detention facility, shall negligently
do any of the following:
      (1)   Allow the detention facility to become littered or unsanitary.
      (2)   Fail to provide persons confined in the detention facility with
adequate food, clothing, bedding, shelter and medical attention.
      (3)   Fail to control an unruly prisoner, or to prevent intimidation of
or physical harm to a prisoner by another.
      (4)   Allow a prisoner to escape.
      (5)   Fail to observe any lawful and reasonable regulation for the
management of the detention facility.
   (d)   No public official shall recklessly create a deficiency, incur a
liability or expend a greater sum than is appropriated by the Council for the
use in any one year of the department, agency, or institution with which the
public official is connected.
   (e)   No public servant shall recklessly fail to perform a duty expressly
imposed by law with respect to the public servant’s office, or recklessly do
any act expressly forbidden by law with respect to the public servant’s office.
   (f)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of dereliction of duty, a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (g)   Except as otherwise provided by law, a public servant who is a county
treasurer; county auditor; township fiscal officer; city auditor; city
treasurer; village fiscal officer; village clerk-treasurer; village clerk; in
the case of a municipal corporation having a charter that designates an officer
who, by virtue of the charter, has duties and functions similar to those of the
city or village officers referred to in this section, the officer so designated
by the charter; school district treasurer; fiscal officer of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314; treasurer of a science, technology,
engineering, and mathematics school established under R.C. Chapter 3326; or
fiscal officer of a college-preparatory boarding school established under R.C.
Chapter 3328 and is convicted of or pleads guilty to dereliction of duty is
disqualified from holding any public office, employment, or position of trust
in this state for four years following the date of conviction or of entry of
the plea, and is not entitled to hold any public office until any repayment or
restitution required by the court is satisfied.
   (h)   As used in this section, “public servant” includes the following:
      (1)   An officer or employee of a contractor as defined in R.C. § 9.08;
      (2)   A fiscal officer employed by the operator of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314 or by the operator of a college-preparatory
boarding school established under R.C. Chapter 3328.
(R.C. § 2921.44)
§ 608.13 INTERFERING WITH CIVIL RIGHTS.
   (a)   No public servant, under color of the public servant's office,
employment, or authority, shall knowingly deprive, or conspire or attempt to
deprive any person of a constitutional or statutory right.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interfering with civil
rights, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.45)
Statutory reference:
   Restraining or confining pregnant children or pregnant women, see R.C. §
2152.75(B) and R.C. § 2901.10
§ 608.14 IMPERSONATING AN OFFICER.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Federal law enforcement officer.” An employee of the United States
who serves in a position the duties of which are primarily the investigation,
apprehension or detention of individuals suspected or convicted of offenses
under the criminal laws of the United States.
      (2)   “Impersonate.” To act the part of, assume the identity of, wear the
uniform or any part of the uniform of, or display the identification of a
particular person or of a member of a class of persons with purpose to make
another person believe that the actor is that particular person or is a member
of that class of persons.
      (3)   “Investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.11.
      (4)   “Peace officer.” A Sheriff, Deputy Sheriff, Marshal, Deputy
Marshal, member of the organized police department of a municipal corporation
or township constable, who is employed by a political subdivision of this
state; a member of a police force employed by a metropolitan housing authority
under R.C. § 3735.31(D); a member of a police force employed by a regional
transit authority under R.C. § 306.35(Y); a state university law enforcement
officer appointed under R.C. § 3345.04; a veterans’ home police officer
appointed under R.C. § 5907.02; a special police officer employed by a port
authority under R.C. § 4582.04 or 4582.28; an officer, agent or employee of the
state or any of its agencies, instrumentalities or political subdivisions, upon
whom, by statute, a duty to conserve the peace or to enforce all or certain
laws is imposed and the authority to arrest violators is conferred, within
limits of that statutory duty and authority; or a State Highway Patrol trooper
whose primary duties are to preserve the peace, to protect life and property
and to enforce the laws, ordinances or rules of the state or any of its
political subdivisions.
      (5)   “Private police officer.” Any security guard, special police
officer, private detective or other person who is privately employed in a
police capacity.
   (b)   No person shall impersonate a peace officer, private police officer,
investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation or
federal law enforcement officer.
   (c)   No person, by impersonating a peace officer, private police officer,
investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation or
federal law enforcement officer, shall arrest or detain any person, search any
person or search the property of any person.
   (d)   No person, with purpose to commit or facilitate the commission of an
offense, shall impersonate a peace officer, private police officer, federal law
enforcement officer, an officer, agent or employee of the municipality or the
state, or investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation.
   (e)   No person shall commit a felony while impersonating a peace officer,
private police officer, federal law enforcement officer, an officer, agent or
employee of the municipality or of the state or investigator of the Bureau of
Criminal Identification and Investigation.
   (f)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (b) of this
section that the impersonation of the peace officer, private police officer,
federal law enforcement officer, an officer, agent or employee of the
municipality or of the state, or investigator of the Bureau of Criminal
Identification and Investigation was for a lawful purpose.
   (g)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Whoever violates division (c) or (d) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the purpose of a
violation of division (d) of this section is to commit or facilitate the
commission of a felony, a violation of division (d) is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. Whoever violates division (e) of this
section is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.51)
§ 608.15 DISPLAY OF LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY EMBLEM.
   (a)   No person who is not entitled to do so shall knowingly display on a
motor vehicle the emblem of a law enforcement agency or an organization of law
enforcement officers.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of the unlawful display of the
emblem of a law enforcement agency or an organization of law enforcement
officers, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2913.441)
§ 608.16 DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED OR FORFEITED PROPERTY HELD BY POLICE
DEPARTMENT.
   (a)   Safekeeping of Property in Custody.
      (1)   A.   Any property that has been lost, abandoned, stolen, seized
pursuant to a search warrant, or otherwise lawfully seized or forfeited and
that is in the custody of the Police Department shall be kept safely by the
Police Department, pending the time it no longer is needed as evidence or for
another lawful purpose, and shall be disposed of pursuant to this section or
R.C. § 2981.12 and 2981.13.
         B.   This section does not apply to the custody and disposal of any of
the following:
            1.   Vehicles subject to forfeiture under R.C. Title 45, except as
provided in division (b)(1)F. of this section;
            2.   Abandoned junk motor vehicles or other property of negligible
value;
            3.   Property held by a department of rehabilitation and correction
institution that is unclaimed, that does not have an identified owner, that the
owner agrees to dispose of or that is identified by the Department as having
little value;
            4.   Animals taken, and devices used in unlawfully taking animals,
under R.C. § 1531.20;
            5.   Controlled substances sold by a peace officer in the
performance of the officer’s official duties under R.C. § 3719.141;
            6.   Property recovered by a township law enforcement agency under
R.C. § 505.105 to 505.109;
            7.   Property held and disposed of under an ordinance of the
municipality or under R.C. § 737.29 to 737.33, except that if the municipality
has received notice of a citizens’ reward program as provided in division (b)
(5) of this section and disposes of property under an ordinance shall pay 25%
of any moneys acquired from any sale or auction to the citizens’ reward
program.
      (2)   A.   The Police Department shall adopt and comply with a written
internal control policy that does all of the following:
            1.   Provides for keeping detailed records as to the amount of
property acquired by the Police Department and the date property was acquired;
            2.   Provides for keeping detailed records of the disposition of
the property, which shall include but not be limited to both of the following:
               a.   The manner in which it was disposed, the date of
disposition, detailed financial records concerning any property sold and the
name of any person who received the property. The record shall not identify or
enable identification of the individual officer who seized any item of
property.
               b.   An itemized list of the specific expenditures made with
amounts that are gained from the sale of the property and that are retained by
the agency, including the specific amount expended on each expenditure, except
that the policy shall not provide for or permit the identification of any
specific expenditure that is made in an ongoing investigation.
            3.   Complies with R.C. § 2981.13 if the Police Department has a
law enforcement trust fund or similar fund created under that section.
         B.   The records kept under the internal control policy shall be open
to public inspection during the Police Department’s regular business hours. The
policy adopted under this section is a public record open for inspection under
R.C. § 149.43.
      (3)   The Police Department, with custody of property to be disposed of
under this section or R.C. § 2981.12 or 2981.13, shall make a reasonable effort
to locate persons entitled to possession of the property, to notify them of
when and where it may be claimed, and to return the property to them at the
earliest possible time. In the absence of evidence identifying persons entitled
to possession, it is sufficient notice to advertise in a newspaper of general
circulation in the county and to briefly describe the nature of the property in
custody and inviting persons to view and establish their right to it.
      (4)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         A.   “Citizens’ reward program.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
9.92.
         B.   “Law enforcement agency.” Includes correctional institutions.
         C.   “Township law enforcement agency.” An organized police department
of a township, a township police district, a joint police district, or the
office of a township constable.
(R.C. § 2981.11)
   (b)   Disposition of Unclaimed or Forfeited Property.
      (1)   Unclaimed or forfeited property in the custody of the Police
Department, other than property described in division (a)(1)B. of this section,
shall be disposed of by order of any court of record that has territorial
jurisdiction over the municipality, as follows:
         A.   Drugs shall be disposed of pursuant to R.C. § 3719.11 or placed
in the custody of the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States for
disposal or use for medical or scientific purposes under applicable federal
law.
         B.   Firearms and dangerous ordnance suitable for police work may be
given to a law enforcement agency for that purpose. Firearms suitable for
sporting use or as museum pieces or collectors’ items may be sold at public
auction pursuant to division (b)(2) of this section. The Police Department may
sell other firearms and dangerous ordnance to a federally licensed firearms
dealer in a manner that the court considers proper. The Police Department shall
destroy any firearms or dangerous ordnance not given to a law enforcement
agency or sold or shall send them to the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation for destruction by the Bureau.
         C.   Obscene materials shall be destroyed.
         D.   Beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol seized from a person who
does not hold a permit issued under R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303 or otherwise
forfeited to the state for an offense under R.C. § 4301.45 or 4301.53 shall be
sold by the Division of Liquor Control if the Division determines that it is
fit for sale or shall be placed in the custody of the Investigations Unit in
the Ohio Department of Public Safety and be used for training relating to law
enforcement activities. The Ohio Department of Public Safety, with the
assistance of the Division of Liquor Control, shall adopt rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 to provide for the distribution to state or local law
enforcement agencies upon their request. If any tax imposed under R.C. Title 43
has not been paid in relation to the beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol, any
moneys acquired from the sale shall first be used to pay the tax. All other
money collected under this division (b)(1)D. shall be paid into the State
Treasury. Any beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol that the Division
determines to be unfit for sale shall be destroyed.
         E.   Money received by an inmate of a correctional institution from an
unauthorized source or in an unauthorized manner shall be returned to the
sender, if known, or deposited in the inmates’ industrial and entertainment
fund of the institution if the sender is not known.
         F.   1.   Any mobile instrumentality forfeited under R.C. Chapter 2981
may be given to the law enforcement agency that initially seized the mobile
instrumentality for use in performing its duties, if the agency wants the
mobile instrumentality. The agency shall take the mobile instrumentality
subject to any security interest or lien on the mobile instrumentality.
            2.   Vehicles and vehicle parts forfeited under R.C. § 4549.61 to
4549.63 may be given to a law enforcement agency for use in performing its
duties. Those parts may be incorporated into any other official vehicle. Parts
that do not bear vehicle identification numbers or derivatives of them may be
sold or disposed of as provided by rules of the Director of Public Safety.
Parts from which a vehicle identification number or derivative of it has been
removed, defaced, covered, altered or destroyed and that are not suitable for
police work or incorporation into an official vehicle shall be destroyed and
sold as junk or scrap.
         G.   Computers, computer networks, computer systems and computer
software suitable for police work may be given to a law enforcement agency for
that purpose or disposed of under division (b)(2) of this section.
         H.   Money seized in connection with a violation of R.C. § 2905.32,
2907.21, or 2907.22 shall be deposited in the Victims of Human Trafficking Fund
created by R.C. § 5101.87.
      (2)   Unclaimed or forfeited property that is not described in division
(b)(1) of this section or division (a)(1)B. of this section, with court
approval, may be used by the law enforcement agency in possession of it. If it
is not used by the agency, it may be sold without appraisal at a public auction
to the highest bidder for cash or disposed of in another manner that the court
considers proper.
      (3)   Except as provided in divisions (b)(1) and (b)(5) of this section
and after compliance with division (b)(4) of this section when applicable, any
moneys acquired from the sale of property disposed of pursuant to this section
shall be placed in the General Revenue Fund of the state, or the General Fund
of the municipality.
      (4)   If the property was in the possession of the Police Department in
relation to a delinquent child proceeding in a juvenile court, 10% of any
moneys acquired from the sale of property disposed of under this section shall
be applied to one or more community addiction services providers, as defined in
R.C. § 5119.01. A juvenile court shall not specify a services provider, except
as provided in this division, unless the services provider is in the same
county as the court or in a contiguous county. If no services provider is
located in any of those counties, the juvenile court may specify a services
provider anywhere in Ohio. The remaining 90% of the proceeds or cash shall be
applied as provided in division (b)(3) of this section.
      (5)   A.   If the Board of County Commissioners recognizes a citizens’
reward program under R.C. § 9.92, the Board shall notify the Police Department
of the recognition by filing a copy of its resolution conferring that
recognition with the Police Department. When the Board recognizes a citizens’
reward program and the county includes a part, but not all, of the territory of
the municipality, the Board shall so notify the Police Department of the
recognition of the citizens’ reward program only if the county contains the
highest percentage of the municipality’s population.
         B.   Upon being so notified, the Police Department shall pay 25% of
any forfeited proceeds or cash derived from each sale of property disposed of
pursuant to this section to the citizens’ reward program for use exclusively to
pay rewards. No part of the funds may be used to pay expenses associated with
the program. If a citizens’ reward program that operates in more than one
county or in another state in addition to this state receives funds under this
section, the funds shall be used to pay rewards only for tips and information
to law enforcement agencies concerning offenses committed in the county from
which the funds were received.
      (6)   Any property forfeited under R.C. Chapter 2981 not be used to pay
any fine imposed upon a person who is convicted of or pleads guilty to an
underlying criminal offense or a different offense arising out of the same
facts and circumstances.
      (7)   Any moneys acquired from the sale of personal effects, tools, or
other property seized because the personal effects, tools, or other property
were used in the commission of a violation of R.C. § 2905.32, 2907.21, or
2907.22 or derived from the proceeds of the commission of a violation of R.C. §
2905.32, 2907.21, or 2907.22 and disposed of pursuant to this division (b)
shall be placed in the Victims of Human Trafficking Fund created by R.C. §
5101.87.
(R.C. § 2981.12)
   (c)   Disposition of Contraband, Proceeds, or Instrumentalities. Except as
otherwise provided in R.C. § 2981.13, property ordered forfeited as contraband,
proceeds, or an instrumentality pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2981 shall be disposed
of, used or sold pursuant to division (b) of this section or R.C. § 2981.12. If
the property is to be sold under division (b) of this section or R.C. §
2981.12, the prosecutor shall cause notice of the proposed sale to be given in
accordance with law.
(R.C. § 2981.13(A))
Statutory reference:
   Forfeiture of property generally, see R.C. Chapter 2981
§ 608.17 DETENTION OF SHOPLIFTERS AND THOSE COMMITTING MOTION PICTURE PIRACY;
PROTECTION OF INSTITUTIONAL PROPERTY.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Archival institution.” Any public or private building, structure,
or shelter in which are stored historical documents, devices, records,
manuscripts or items of public interest, which historical materials are stored
to preserve the materials or the information in the materials, to disseminate
the information contained in the materials, or to make the materials available
for public inspection or for inspection by certain persons who have a
particular interest in, use for, or knowledge concerning the materials.
      (2)   “Audiovisual recording function “ and “facility.” Have the same
meaning as in R.C. § 2913.07.
      (3)   “Museum.” Any public or private nonprofit institution that is
permanently organized for primarily educational or aesthetic purposes, owns or
borrows objects or items of public interest, and cares for and exhibits to the
public the objects or items.
      (4)   “Pretrial diversion program.” Means a rehabilitative, educational
program designed to reduce recidivism and promote personal responsibility that
is at least four hours in length and that has been approved by any court in
this state.
   (b)   A merchant, or an employee or agent of a merchant, who has probable
cause to believe that things offered for sale by a mercantile establishment
have been unlawfully taken by a person, may, for the purposes set forth in
division (d) below, detain the person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable
length of time within the mercantile establishment or its immediate vicinity.
   (c)   Any officer, employee or agent of a library, museum or archival
institution may, for the purposes set forth in division (d) below or for the
purpose of conducting a reasonable investigation of a belief that the person
has acted in a manner described in divisions (c)(1) and (c)(2) below, detain a
person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable length of time within, or in the
immediate vicinity of, the library, museum or archival institution, if the
officer, employee or agent has probable cause to believe that the person has:
      (1)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly moved, defaced, damaged,
destroyed or otherwise improperly tampered with property owned by or in the
custody of the library, museum or archival institution; or
      (2)   With purpose to deprive the library, museum or archival institution
of property owned by it or in its custody, knowingly obtained or exerted
control over the property without the consent of the owner or person authorized
to give consent, beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of the
owner or person authorized to give consent, by deception, or by threat.
   (d)   An officer, agent or employee of a library, museum or archival
institution pursuant to division (c) above or a merchant or an employee or
agent of a merchant pursuant to division (b) above may detain another person
for any of the following purposes:
      (1)   To recover the property that is the subject of the unlawful taking,
criminal mischief or theft;
      (2)   To cause an arrest to be made by a peace officer;
      (3)   To obtain a warrant of arrest;
      (4)   To offer the person, if the person is suspected of the unlawful
taking, criminal mischief, or theft and notwithstanding any other provision of
this Code or the Ohio Revised Code, an opportunity to complete a pretrial
diversion program and to inform the person of the other legal remedies
available to the library, museum, archival institution, or merchant.
   (e)   The owner or lessee of a facility in which a motion picture is being
shown, or the owner’s or lessee’s employee or agent, who has probable cause to
believe that a person is or has been operating an audiovisual recording
function of a device in violation of R.C. § 2913.07 may, for the purpose of
causing an arrest to be made by a peace officer or of obtaining an arrest
warrant, detain the person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable length of
time within the facility or its immediate vicinity.
   (f)   The officer, agent or employee of the library, museum or archival
institution, the merchant or an employee or agent of a merchant, or the owner,
lessee, employee or agent of the facility acting under divisions (b), (c) or
(e) above shall not search the person detained, search or seize any property
belonging to the person detained without the person’s consent, or use undue
restraint upon the person detained.
   (g)   Any peace officer may arrest without a warrant any person that the
officer has probable cause to believe has committed any act described in
division (c)(1) or (c)(2) above, that the officer has probable cause to believe
has committed an unlawful taking in a mercantile establishment, or that the
officer has reasonable cause to believe has committed an act prohibited by R.C.
§ 2913.07. An arrest under this division shall be made within a reasonable time
after the commission of the act or unlawful taking.
(R.C. § 2935.041)
§ 608.18 FAILURE TO DISCLOSE PERSONAL INFORMATION.
   (a)   No person who is in a public place shall refuse to disclose the
person’s name, address or date of birth, when requested by a law enforcement
officer who reasonably suspects either of the following:
      (1)   The person is committing, has committed or is about to commit a
criminal offense.
      (2)   The person witnessed any of the following:
         A.   An offense of violence that would constitute a felony under the
laws of this state;
         B.   A felony offense that causes or results in, or creates a
substantial risk of, serious physical harm to another person or property;
         C.   Any attempt or conspiracy to commit, or complicity in committing,
any offenses identified in division (a)(2)A. or (a)(2)B. of this section;
         D.   Any conduct reasonably indicating that any offense identified in
division (a)(2)A. or (a)(2)B. of this section or any attempt, conspiracy or
complicity described in division (a)(2)C. of this section has been, is being or
is about to be committed.
   (b)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of failure to
disclose one’s personal information, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (c)   Nothing in division (a) of this section requires a person to answer
any questions beyond that person’s name, address or date of birth. Nothing in
division (a) of this section authorizes a law enforcement officer to arrest a
person for not providing any information beyond the person’s name, address or
date of birth or for refusing to describe the offense observed.
   (d)   It is not a violation of division (a) of this section to refuse to
answer a question that would reveal a person’s age or date of birth if age is
an element of the crime that the person is suspected of committing.
(R.C. § 2921.29)
   (e)   No person entering an airport, train station, port or other similar
critical transportation infrastructure site shall refuse to show identification
when requested by a law enforcement officer when there is a threat to security
and the law enforcement officer is requiring identification of all persons
entering the site.
   (f)   A law enforcement officer may prevent any person who refuses to show
identification when asked under the circumstances described in division (e) of
this section from entering the critical transportation infrastructure site.
(R.C. § 2909.31)
§ 608.19 MISUSE OF 9-1-1 SYSTEM.
   (a)   As used in this section, “9-1-1 system” means a system through which
individuals can request emergency service using the telephone number 9-1-1.
(R.C. § 128.01(A))
   (b)   No person shall knowingly use the telephone number of a 9-1-1 system
established under R.C. Chapter 128 to report an emergency if the person knows
that no emergency exists.
   (c)   No person shall knowingly use a 9-1-1 system for a purpose other than
obtaining emergency service.
   (d)   No person shall disclose or use any information concerning telephone
numbers, addresses, or names obtained from the database that serves the public
safety answering point of a 9-1-1 system established under R.C. Chapter 128,
except for any of the following purposes or under any of the following
circumstances:
      (1)   For the purpose of the 9-1-1 system;
      (2)   For the purpose of responding to an emergency call to an emergency
service provider;
      (3)   In the circumstance of the inadvertent disclosure of such
information due solely to technology of the wireless telephone network portion
of the 9-1-1 system not allowing access to the database to be restricted to 9-
1-1 specific answering lines at a public safety answering point;
      (4)   In the circumstance of access to a database being given by a
telephone company that is a wireless service provider to a public utility or
municipal utility in handling customer calls in times of public emergency or
service outages. The charge, terms and conditions for the disclosure or use of
the information for the purpose of such access to a database shall be subject
to the jurisdiction of the Steering Committee;
      (5)   In the circumstance of access to a database given by a telephone
company that is a wireline service provider to a state and local government in
warning of a public emergency, as determined by the Steering Committee. The
charge, terms and conditions for the disclosure or use of that information for
the purpose of access to a database is subject to the jurisdiction of the
Steering Committee.
(R.C. § 128.32(E) - (G))
   (e)   (1)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (c) or (d) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 128.99(A), (B))
§ 608.20 USING SHAM LEGAL PROCESS.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Lawfully issued.” Adopted, issued or rendered in accordance with
the United States Constitution, the constitution of a state, and the applicable
statutes, rules, regulations and ordinances of the United States, a state and
the political subdivisions of a state.
      (2)   “Political subdivisions.” Municipal corporations, townships,
counties, school districts and all other bodies corporate and politic that are
organized under state law and are responsible for governmental activities only
in geographical areas smaller than that of a state.
      (3)   “Sham legal process.” An instrument that meets all of the following
conditions:
         A.   It is not lawfully issued.
         B.   It purports to do any of the following:
            1.   To be a summons, subpoena, judgment or order of a court, a law
enforcement officer, or a legislative, executive or administrative body.
            2.   To assert jurisdiction over or determine the legal or
equitable status, rights, duties, powers or privileges of any person or
property.
            3.   To require or authorize the search, seizure, indictment,
arrest, trial or sentencing of any person or property.
         C.   It is designed to make another person believe that it is lawfully
issued.
      (4)   “State.” A state of the United States, including without limitation
the state legislature, the highest court of the state that has statewide
jurisdiction, the offices of all elected state officers, and all departments,
boards, offices, commissions, agencies, institutions and other
instrumentalities of the state. “State” does not include the political
subdivisions of the state.
   (b)   No person shall, knowing the sham legal process to be a sham legal
process, do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly issue, display, deliver, distribute or otherwise use sham
legal process.
      (2)   Knowingly use sham legal process to arrest, detain, search or seize
any person or the property of another person.
      (3)   Knowingly commit or facilitate the commission of an offense using
sham legal process.
      (4)   Knowingly commit a felony by using sham legal process.
   (c)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (b)(1) or (b)
(2) of this section that the use of sham legal process was for a lawful
purpose.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of using sham legal process. A
violation of division (b)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. A violation of division (b)(2) or (b)(3) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree, except that if the purpose of a violation of
division (b)(3) of this section is to commit or facilitate the commission of a
felony, a violation of division (b)(3) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of division (b)(4) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.52(A) - (D))
CHAPTER 612: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
612.01   Definitions.
612.02   Sales to underage persons; prohibitions and misrepresentations.
612.03   Sales to intoxicated persons.
612.04   Consumption in motor vehicle.
612.05   Permit required.
612.06   Posting age and firearm warning signs.
612.07   Open container prohibited.
612.08   Hours of sale or consumption.
612.09   Conveying intoxicating liquor or cash onto grounds of detention
facilities or other specified governmental facilities.
612.10   Sales of low-alcohol beverages to underage persons; prohibitions and
misrepresentations.
612.11   Alcohol vaporizing devices prohibited.
Cross-reference:
   Definitions generally, see §
606.01
   Disorderly conduct while voluntarily intoxicated, see §
648.04
   Driving or physical control while intoxicated, see §
434.01
   Effect of voluntary intoxication on criminal liability, see §
606.07
   Using weapons while intoxicated, see §
678.03
Statutory reference:
   Liquor Control Law, see R.C. Ch. 4301
   Liquor permits, see R.C. Ch. 4303
   Local option, see R.C. § 4303.29   
   Suspension of alcohol sales during emergency, see R.C. § 4301.251
§ 612.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (a)   “Alcohol.” Ethyl alcohol, whether rectified or diluted with water or
not, whatever its origin may be, and includes synthetic ethyl alcohol. The term
does not include denatured alcohol and wood alcohol.
   (b)   “At retail.” For use or consumption by the purchaser and not for
resale.
   (c)   “Beer.”
      (1)   Includes all beverages brewed or fermented wholly or in part from
malt products and containing 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume.
      (2)   Beer, regardless of the percent of alcohol by volume, is not
intoxicating liquor for purposes of this code, the Ohio Revised Code, or any
rules adopted under it.
   (d)   “Cider.” All liquids that are fit to use for beverage purposes that
contain 0.5% of alcohol by volume, but not more than 6% of alcohol by weight
that are made through the normal alcoholic fermentation of the juice of sound,
ripe apples, including without limitation flavored, sparkling or carbonated
cider and cider made from pure condensed apple must.
   (e)   “Club.” A corporation or association of individuals organized in good
faith for social, recreational, benevolent, charitable, fraternal, political,
patriotic or athletic purposes, which is the owner, lessor or occupant of a
permanent building or part of a permanent building operated solely for those
purposes, membership in which entails the prepayment of regular dues, and
includes the place so operated.
   (f)   “Community facility.” Either of the following:
      (1)   Any convention, sports or entertainment facility or complex, or any
combination of these, that is used by or accessible to the general public and
that is owned or operated in whole or in part by the state, a state agency or a
political subdivision of the state or that is leased from, or located on
property owned by or leased from, the state, a state agency, a political
subdivision of the state or a convention facilities authority created pursuant
to R.C. § 351.02;
      (2)   An area designated as a community entertainment district pursuant
to R.C. § 4301.80.
   (g)   “Controlled access alcohol and beverage cabinet.” A closed container,
either refrigerated, in whole or in part, or nonrefrigerated, access to the
interior of which is restricted by means of a device that requires the use of a
key, magnetic card or similar device and from which beer, intoxicating liquor,
other beverages or food may be sold.
   (h)   “Hotel.” The same meaning as in R.C. § 3731.01, subject to the
exceptions mentioned in R.C. § 3731.03.
   (i)   “Intoxicating liquor” and “liquor.” All liquids and compounds, other
than beer, containing 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume which are fit to use
for beverage purposes, from whatever source and by whatever process produced,
by whatever name called, and whether they are medicated, proprietary or
patented. “Intoxicating liquor” and “liquor” include cider and alcohol, and all
solids and confections which contain 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume.
   (j)   “Low-alcohol beverage.” Any brewed or fermented malt product or any
product made from the fermented juices of grapes, fruits or other agricultural
products that contains either no alcohol or less than 0.5% of alcohol by
volume. The beverages described in this definition do not include a soft drink
such as root beer, birch beer or ginger beer.
   (k)   “Manufacture.” All processes by which beer or intoxicating liquor is
produced, whether by distillation, rectifying, fortifying, blending,
fermentation, brewing, or in any other manner.
   (l)   “Manufacturer.” Any person engaged in the business of manufacturing
beer or intoxicating liquor.
   (m)   “Mixed beverages.” Includes bottled and prepared cordials, cocktails,
highballs, and solids and confections that are obtained by mixing any type of
whiskey, neutral spirits, brandy, gin or other distilled spirits with, or over,
carbonated or plain water, pure juices from flowers and plants, and other
flavoring materials. The completed product shall contain not less than 0.5% of
alcohol by volume and not more than 21% of alcohol by volume. The phrase
includes the contents of a pod.
   (n)   “Nightclub.” A place habitually operated for profit, where food is
served for consumption on the premises, and one or more forms of amusement are
provided or permitted for a consideration that may be in the form of a cover
charge or may be included in the price of the food and beverages, or both,
purchased by patrons.
   (o)   “Person.” Includes firms and corporations.
   (p)   “Pharmacy.” An establishment as defined in R.C. § 4729.01, that is
under the management or control of a licensed pharmacist in accordance with
R.C. § 4729.27.
   (q)   "Pod." Means a sealed capsule made from plastic, glass, aluminum, or a
combination thereof to which all of the following apply:
      (1)   The capsule contains intoxicating liquor of more than 21% of
alcohol by volume.
      (2)   The capsule also contains a concentrated flavoring mixture.
      (3)   The contents of the capsule are not readily accessible or intended
for consumption unless certain manufacturer's processing instructions are
followed.
      (4)   The instructions include releasing the contents of the capsule
through a machine specifically designed to process the contents.
      (5)   After being properly processed according to the manufacturer's
instructions, the final product produced from the capsule contains not less
than 0.5% of alcohol by volume and not more than 21% of alcohol by volume.
   (r)   “Restaurant.” A place located in a permanent building provided with
space and accommodations wherein, in consideration of the payment of money, hot
meals are habitually prepared, sold and served at noon and evening, as the
principal business of the place. The term does not include pharmacies,
confectionery stores, lunch stands, nightclubs and filling stations.
   (s)   “Sale” and “sell.” The exchange, barter, gift, offer for sale, sale,
distribution and delivery of any kind, and the transfer of title or possession
of beer and intoxicating liquor either by constructive or actual delivery by
any means or devices whatever, including the sale of beer or intoxicating
liquor by means of a controlled access alcohol and beverage cabinet pursuant to
R.C. § 4301.21. These terms do not include the mere solicitation of orders for
beer or intoxicating liquor from the holders of permits issued by the Division
of Liquor Control authorizing the sale of the beer or intoxicating liquor, but
no solicitor shall solicit any orders until the solicitor has been registered
with the Division pursuant to R.C. § 4303.25.
   (t)   “Sales area or territory.” An exclusive geographic area or territory
that is assigned to a particular A or B permit holder and that either has one
or more political subdivisions as its boundaries or consists of an area of land
with readily identifiable geographic boundaries. “Sales area or territory” does
not include, however, any particular retail location in an exclusive geographic
area or territory that had been assigned to another A or B permit holder before
April 9, 2001.
   (u)   “Sealed container.” Any container having a capacity of not more than
128 fluid ounces, the opening of which is closed to prevent the entrance of
air.
   (v)   “Spirituous liquor.” All intoxicating liquors containing more than 21%
of alcohol by volume. The phrase does not include the contents of a pod.
   (w)   “Vehicle.” All means of transportation by land, by water or by air,
and everything made use of in any way for the transportation.
   (x)   “Wholesale distributor” and “distributor.” A person engaged in the
business of selling to retail dealers for purposes of resale.
   (y)   "Wine." All liquids fit to use for beverage purposes containing not
less than 0.5% of alcohol by volume and not more than 21% of alcohol by volume,
that is made from the fermented juices of grapes, fruits, or other agricultural
products. The term includes cider, except as used in R.C. §§ 4301.13, 4301.421,
4301.422, 4301.432, and 4301.44, and, for purposes of determining the rate of
the tax that applies, R.C. § 4301.43(B), the term does not include cider.
(R.C. §§ 4301.01, 4301.244)
§ 612.02 SALES TO UNDERAGE PERSONS; PROHIBITIONS AND MISREPRESENTATIONS.
   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter 4301,
no person shall sell beer or intoxicating liquor to an underage person, shall
buy beer or intoxicating liquor for an underage person, or shall furnish it to
an underage person unless given by a physician in the regular line of the
physician’s practice or given for established religious purposes or unless the
underage person is supervised by a parent, spouse who is not an underage
person, or legal guardian. In proceedings before the Liquor Control Commission,
no permit holder, or no employee or agent of a permit holder, charged with a
violation of this division shall be charged, for the same offense, with a
violation of R.C. § 4301.22(A)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (b)   No person who is the owner or occupant of any public or private place
shall knowingly allow any underage person to remain in or on the place while
possessing or consuming beer or intoxicating liquor, unless the intoxicating
liquor or beer is given to the person possessing or consuming it by that
person’s parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian and
the parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian is present
at the time of the person’s possession or consumption of the beer or
intoxicating liquor. An owner of a public or private place is not liable for
acts or omissions in violation of this division that are committed by a lessee
of that place, unless the owner authorizes or acquiesces in the lessee’s acts
or omissions.
   (c)   No person shall engage or use accommodations at a hotel, inn, cabin,
campground or restaurant when the person knows or has reason to know either of
the following:
      (1)   That beer or intoxicating liquor will be consumed by an underage
person on the premises of the accommodations that the person engages or uses,
unless the person engaging or using the accommodations is the spouse of the
underage person and who is not an underage person, or is the parent or legal
guardian of all of the underage persons, who consume beer or intoxicating
liquor on the premises and that person is on the premises at all times when
beer or intoxicating liquor is being consumed by an underage person.
      (2)   That a drug of abuse will be consumed on the premises of the
accommodations by any person, except a person who obtained the drug of abuse
pursuant to a prescription issued by a licensed health professionals authorized
to prescribe drugs and has the drug of abuse in the original container in which
it was dispensed to the person.
   (d)   (1)   No person is required to permit the engagement of accommodations
at any hotel, inn, cabin or campground by an underage person or for an underage
person, if the person engaging the accommodations knows or has reason to know
that the underage person is intoxicated, or that the underage person possesses
any beer or intoxicating liquor and is not supervised by a parent, spouse who
is not an underage person, or legal guardian who is or will be present at all
times when the beer or intoxicating liquor is being consumed by the underage
person.
      (2)   No underage person shall knowingly engage or attempt to engage
accommodations at any hotel, inn, cabin or campground by presenting
identification that falsely indicates that the underage person is 21 years of
age or older for the purpose of violating this section.
   (e)   (1)   No underage person shall knowingly order, pay for, share the
cost of, attempt to purchase, possess or consume any beer or intoxicating
liquor in any public or private place. No underage person shall knowingly be
under the influence of any beer or intoxicating liquor in any public place. The
prohibitions set forth in this division against an underage person knowingly
possessing, consuming or being under the influence of any beer or intoxicating
liquor shall not apply if the underage person is supervised by a parent, spouse
who is not an underage person, or legal guardian, or the beer or intoxicating
liquor is given by a physician in the regular line of the physician’s practice
or given for established religious purposes.
      (2)   A.   If a person is charged with violating division (e)(1) of this
section in a complaint filed under R.C. § 2151.27, the court may order the
child into a diversion program specified by the court and hold the complaint in
abeyance pending successful completion of the diversion program. A child is
ineligible to enter into a diversion program under this division if the child
previously has been diverted pursuant to this division. If the child completes
the diversion program to the satisfaction of the court, the court shall dismiss
the complaint and order the child’s record in the case sealed under R.C. §
2151.356 through 2151.358. If the child fails to satisfactorily complete the
diversion program, the court shall proceed with the complaint.
         B.   If a person is charged in a criminal complaint with violating
division (e)(1) of this section, R.C. § 2935.36 shall apply to the offense,
except that a person is ineligible for diversion under that section if the
person previously has been diverted pursuant to divisions (e)(2)A. or (e)(2)B.
of this section. If the person completes the diversion program to the
satisfaction of the court, the court shall dismiss the complaint and order the
record in the case sealed under R.C. § 2953.52. If the person fails to
satisfactorily complete the diversion program, the court shall proceed with the
complaint.
   (f)   No parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian of
a minor shall knowingly permit the minor to violate this section or R.C. §
4301.63, 4301.633 or 4301.634, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (g)   The operator of any hotel, inn, cabin or campground shall make the
provisions of this section available in writing to any person engaging or using
accommodations at the hotel, inn, cabin or campground.
   (h)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Drug of abuse.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.011.
      (2)   “Hotel.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3731.01.
      (3)   “Licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs” and
“prescription.” Have the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
      (4)   “Minor.” A person under the age of 18 years.
      (5)   “Underage person.” A person under the age of 21 years.
(R.C. § 4301.69)
   (i)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter 4301,
no person under the age of 21 years shall purchase beer or intoxicating liquor.
(R.C. § 4301.63)
   (j)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter 4301,
no person shall knowingly furnish any false information as to the name, age or
other identification of any person under 21 years of age, for the purpose of
obtaining, or with the intent to obtain, beer or intoxicating liquor for a
person under 21 years of age, by purchase or as a gift.
(R.C. § 4301.633)
   (k)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter 4301,
no person under the age of 21 years shall knowingly show or give false
information concerning his or her name, age or other identification for the
purpose of purchasing or otherwise obtaining beer or intoxicating liquor in any
place in this municipality where beer or intoxicating liquor is sold under a
permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control, or sold by the Division of
Liquor Control.
(R.C. § 4301.634)
   (l)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor, shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $1,000, and in
addition to the fine, may be imprisoned for a definite term of not more than
six months.
(R.C. § 4301.99(I))
   (m)   Whoever violates division (b), (c), (d), (e)(1), (f), (g) or (j) of
this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If an offender who
violates division (e)(1) of this section was under the age of 18 years at the
time of the offense and the offense occurred while the offender was the
operator of or a passenger in a motor vehicle, the court, in addition to any
other penalties it imposes upon the offender, shall suspend the offender’s
temporary instruction permit or probationary driver’s license for a period of
six months. If the offender is 15 years and six months of age or older and has
not been issued a temporary instruction permit or probationary driver’s
license, the offender shall not be eligible to be issued such a license or
permit for a period of six months. If the offender has not attained the age of
15 years and six months, the offender shall not be eligible to be issued a
temporary instruction permit until the offender attains the age of 16 years.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
   (n)   Whoever violates division (i) of this section shall be fined not less
than $25 nor more than $100. The court imposing a fine for a violation of this
section may order that the fine be paid by the performance of public work at a
reasonable hour rate established by the court. The court shall designate the
time within which the public work shall be completed.
(R.C. § 4301.99(E))
   (o)   (1)   Whoever violates division (k) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If, in committing a first violation of
division (k), the offender presented to the permit holder or his or her
employee or agent a false, fictitious, or altered identification card, a false
or fictitious driver’s license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver’s
license issued by any state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not less than $250 and not
more than $1,000, and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more
than six months.
      (2)   On a second violation in which, for the second time, the offender
presented to the permit holder or his or her employee or agent a false,
fictitious or altered identification card, a false or fictitious driver’s
license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver’s license issued by any
state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree and shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $1,000, and
may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than six months. The
court also may impose a class seven suspension of the offender’
      (3)   On a third or subsequent violation in which, for the third or
subsequent time, the offender presented to the permit holder or his or her
employee or agent a false, fictitious or altered identification card, a false
or fictitious driver’s license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver’s
license issued by any state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not less than $500 nor more
than $1,000, and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than
six months. Except as provided in this division, the court also may impose a
class six suspension of the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or permit or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. §
4510.02(A)(6), and the court may order that the suspension or denial remain in
effect until the offender attains the age of 21 years. The court, in lieu of
suspending the offender’s temporary instruction permit, probationary driver’s
license, or driver’s license, instead may order the offender to perform a
determinate number of hours of community service, with the court determining
the actual number of hours and the nature of the community service the offender
shall perform.
(R.C. § 4301.99(F))
§ 612.03 SALES TO INTOXICATED PERSONS.
   (a)   No permit holder and no agent or employee of a permit holder shall
sell or furnish beer or intoxicating liquor to an intoxicated person.
(R.C. § 4301.22(B))
   (b)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(D), (H))
§ 612.04 CONSUMPTION IN MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (a)   No person shall consume any beer or intoxicating liquor in a motor
vehicle. This section does not apply to persons described in R.C. § 4301.62(D)
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 4301.64)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If an offender who violates this section was under the age of 18 years
at the time of the offense, the court, in addition to any other penalties it
imposes upon the offender, may suspend the offender’s temporary instruction
permit, probationary driver’s license or driver’s license for a period of not
less than six months and not more than one year. In lieu of suspending the
offender’s temporary instruction permit, probationary driver’s license, or
driver’s license, the court instead may require the offender to perform
community service for a number of hours determined by the court. If the
offender is 15 years and six months of age or older and has not been issued a
temporary instruction permit or probationary driver’s license, the offender
shall not be eligible to be issued such a license or permit for a period of six
months. If the offender has not attained the age of 15 years and six months,
the offender shall not be eligible to be issued a temporary instruction permit
until the offender attains the age of 16 years.
(R.C. § 4301.99(B))
§ 612.05 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (a)   (1)   No person personally or by the person’s clerk, agent or
employee, shall manufacture, manufacture for sale, offer, keep or possess for
sale, furnish or sell, or solicit the purchase or sale of any beer or
intoxicating liquor in this state, or transport, import or cause to be
transported or imported any beer, intoxicating liquor or alcohol in or into
this municipality for delivery, use or sale, unless the person has fully
complied with R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303 or is the holder of a permit issued
by the Division of Liquor Control and in force at the time.
      (2)   No manufacturer, supplier, wholesale distributor, broker or
retailer of beer or intoxicating liquor, or other person shall employ, retain
or otherwise utilize any person in this state to act as an employee, agent,
solicitor or salesperson, or act in any other representative capacity to sell,
solicit, take orders or receive offers to purchase or expressions of interest
to purchase beer or intoxicating liquor from any person, at any location other
than a liquor permit premises, except as specifically authorized by R.C.
Chapter 4301 or Chapter 4303 or rules adopted thereunder. No function, event or
party shall take place at any location other than a liquor permit premises
where any person acts in any manner to sell, solicit, take orders or receive
offers to purchase or expressions of intent to purchase beer or intoxicating
liquor to or from any person, except as specifically authorized by R.C. Chapter
4301 or Chapter 4303 or rules adopted thereunder.
(R.C. § 4303.25)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
§ 612.06 POSTING AGE AND FIREARM WARNING SIGNS.
   (a)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 4301.691, every place in
this municipality where beer, intoxicating liquor or any low-alcohol beverage
is sold for beverage purposes shall display at all times, in a prominent place
on the premises thereof, a printed card, which shall be furnished by the
Division of Liquor Control and which shall read substantially as follows:
   WARNING TO PERSONS UNDER AGE
   If you are under the age of 21
   Under the statutes of the State of Ohio, if you order, pay for, share the
cost of or attempt to purchase, or possess or consume beer or intoxicating
liquor in any public place, or furnish false information as to name, age or
other identification, you are subject to a fine of up to $1,000, or
imprisonment up to 6 months, or both.
   If you are under the age of 18
   Under the statutes of the State of Ohio, if you order, pay for, share the
cost of or attempt to purchase, or possess or consume, any type of beer or wine
that contains either no alcohol or less than one-half of one percent of alcohol
by volume in any public place, or furnish false information as to the name,
age, or other identification, you are subject to a fine of up to $250 or to
imprisonment up to 30 days, or both.
      (2)   No person shall be subject to any criminal prosecution or any
proceedings before the Department or the Liquor Control Commission for failing
to display this card. No permit issued by the Department shall be suspended,
revoked or canceled because of the failure of the permit holder to display this
card.
   (b)   (1)   Every place in this municipality for which a D permit has been
issued under R.C. Chapter 4303 shall be issued a printed card by the Division
of Liquor Control that shall read substantially as follows:
   WARNING
   If you are carrying a firearm
   Under the statutes of Ohio, if you possess a firearm in any room in which
liquor is being dispensed in premises for which a D permit has been issued
under Chapter 4303 of the Revised Code, you may be guilty of a felony and may
be subjected to a prison term of up to one year.
      (2)   No person shall be subject to any criminal prosecution or any
proceedings before the Division of Liquor Control or the Liquor Control
Commission for failing to display this card. No permit issued by the Department
shall be suspended, revoked or canceled because of the failure of the permit
holder to display this card.
(R.C. § 4301.637)
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4301.70, 4301.99(A))
§ 612.07 OPEN CONTAINER PROHIBITED.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Chauffeured limousine.” A vehicle registered under R.C. § 4503.24.
      (2)   “Street,” “highway,” and “motor vehicle.” Have the same meanings as
in R.C. § 4511.01.
   (b)   No person shall have in the person’s possession an opened container of
beer or intoxicating liquor in any of the following circumstances:
      (1)   Except as provided in division (c)(1)E. of this section, in a state
liquor store;
      (2)   Except as provided in division (c) or (j) of this section, on the
premises of the holder of any permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control;
      (3)   In any other public place;
      (4)   Except as provided in division (d) or (e) of this section while
operating or being a passenger in or on a motor vehicle on any street, highway
or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking;
      (5)   Except as provided in division (d) or (e) of this section while
being in or on a stationary motor vehicle on any street, highway or other
public or private property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking.
   (c)   (1)   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened container
of any of the following:
         A.   Beer or intoxicating liquor that has been lawfully purchased for
consumption on the premises where bought from the holder of an A-1-A, A-2, A-
2f, A-3a, D-1, D-2, D-3, D-3a, D-4, D-4a, D-5, D-5a, D-5b, D-5c, D-5d, D-5e, D-
5f, D-5g, D-5h, D-5i, D-5j, D-5k, D-5l, D-5m, D-5n, D-5o, D-7, D-8, E, F, F-2,
F-5, F-7 or F-8 permit;
         B.   Beer, wine, or mixed beverages served for consumption on the
premises by the holder of an F-3 permit, wine served as a tasting sample by an
A-2, S-1, or S-2 permit holder for consumption on the premises of a farmers
market for which an F-10 permit has been issued, or wine served for consumption
on the premises by the holder of an F-4 or F-6 permit;
         C.   Beer or intoxicating liquor consumed on the premises of a
convention facility as provided in R.C. § 4303.201;
         D.   Beer or intoxicating liquor to be consumed during tastings and
samplings approved by rule of the Liquor Control Commission;
         E.   Spiritous liquor to be consumed for purposes of a tasting sample,
as defined in R.C. § 4301.171.
      (2)   A person may have in the person’s possession on an F liquor permit
premises an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor that was not
purchased from the holder of the F permit if the premises for which the F
permit is issued is a music festival and the holder of the F permit grants
permission for that possession on the premises during the period for which the
F permit is issued. As used in this division (c)(2), “music festival” means a
series of outdoor live musical performances extending for a period of at least
three consecutive days and located on an area of land of at least 40 acres.
      (3)   A.   A person may have in the person’s possession on a D-2 liquor
permit premises an opened or unopened container of wine that was not purchased
from the holder of the D-2 permit if the premises for which the D-2 permit is
issued is an outdoor performing arts center, the person is attending an
orchestral performance, and the holder of the D-2 permit grants permission for
the possession and consumption of wine in certain predesignated areas of the
premises during the period for which the D-2 permit is issued.
         B.   As used in division (c)(3)A. of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
            1.   “Orchestral performance.” A concert comprised of a group of
not fewer than 40 musicians playing various musical instruments.
            2.   “Outdoor performing arts center.” An outdoor performing arts
center that is located on not less than 150 acres of land and that is open for
performances from the first day of April to the last day of October of each
year.
      (4)   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened or unopened
container of beer or intoxicating liquor at an outdoor location at which the
person is attending an orchestral performance as defined in division (c)(3)B.
of this section if the person with supervision and control over the performance
grants permission for the possession and consumption of beer or intoxicating
liquor in certain predesignated areas of that outdoor location.
      (5)   A.   A person may have in the person’s possession on an F-9 liquor
permit premises an opened or unopened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
that was not purchased from the holder of the F-9 permit if the person is
attending either of the following:
            1.   An orchestral performance and the F-9 permit holder grants
permission for the possession and consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor in
certain predesignated areas of the premises during the period for which the F-
9 permit is issued;
            2.   An outdoor performing arts event or orchestral performance
that is free of charge and the F-9 permit holder annually hosts not less than
25 other events or performances that are free of charge on the permit premises.
         B.   As used in division (c)(5) of this section, “orchestral
performance” has the same meaning as in division (c)(3)B. of this section.
      (6)   A.   A person may have in the person’s possession on the property
of an outdoor motorsports facility an opened or unopened container of beer or
intoxicating liquor that was not purchased from the owner of the facility if
both of the following apply:
            1.   The person is attending a racing event at the facility; and
            2.   The owner of the facility grants permission for the possession
and consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor on the property of the facility.
         B.   As used in division (c)(6)A. of this section:
            1.   “Outdoor motorsports facility.” An outdoor racetrack to which
all of the following apply:
               a.   It is 2.4 miles or more in length.
               b.   It is located on 200 acres or more of land.
               c.   The primary business of the owner of the facility is the
hosting and promoting of racing events.
               d.   The holder of a D-1, D-2, or D-3 permit is located on the
property of the facility.
            2.   “Racing event.” A motor vehicle racing event sanctioned by one
or more motor racing sanctioning organizations.
      (7)   A.   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened
container of beer or intoxicating liquor at an outdoor location within an
outdoor refreshment area created under R.C. § 4301.82 if the opened container
of beer or intoxicating liquor was purchased from an A-1, A-1-A, A-1c, A-2, A-
2f, D class, or F class permit holder to which both of the following apply:
            1.   The permit holder’s premises is located within the outdoor
refreshment area.
            2.   The permit held by the permit holder has an outdoor
refreshment area designation.
         B.   Division (c)(7) of this section does not authorize a person to do
either of the following:
            1.   Enter the premises of an establishment within an outdoor
refreshment area while possessing an opened container of beer or intoxicating
liquor acquired elsewhere;
            2.   Possess an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
while being in or on a motor vehicle within an outdoor refreshment area, unless
the possession is otherwise authorized under division (d) or (e) of this
section.
         C.   As used in division (c)(7) of this section, “D class permit
holder” does not include a D-6 or D-8 permit holder.
      (8)   A.   A person may have in the person’s possession on the property
of a market, within a defined F-8 permit premises, an opened container of beer
or intoxicating liquor that was purchased from a D permit premises that is
located immediately adjacent to the market if both of the following apply:
            1.   The market grants permission for the possession and
consumption of beer and intoxicating liquor within the defined F-8 permit
premises;
            2.   The market is hosting an event pursuant to an F-8 permit and
the market has notified the division of liquor control about the event in
accordance with R.C. § 4303.208(A)(3).
         B.   As used in division (c)(8) of this section, “market” means a
market, for which an F-8 permit is held, that has been in operation since 1860.
   (d)   This section does not apply to a person who pays all or a portion of
the fee imposed for use of a chauffeured limousine pursuant to a prearranged
contract or the guest of the person, when all of the following apply:
      (1)   The person or guest is a passenger in the limousine.
      (2)   The person or guest is located in the limousine, but is not
occupying a seat in the front compartment of the limousine where the operator
of the limousine is located.
      (3)   The limousine is located on any street, highway or other public or
private property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking.
   (e)   An opened bottle of wine that was purchased from the holder of a
permit that authorizes the sale of wine for consumption on the premises where
sold is not an opened container for the purposes of this section if both of the
following apply:
      (1)   The opened bottle of wine is securely resealed by the permit holder
or an employee of the permit holder before the bottle is removed from the
premises. The bottle shall be secured in such a manner that it is visibly
apparent if the bottle has been subsequently opened or tampered with.
      (2)   The opened bottle of wine that is resealed in accordance with
division (e)(1) of this section is stored in the trunk of a motor vehicle or,
if the motor vehicle does not have a trunk, behind the last upright seat or in
an area not normally occupied by the driver or passengers and not easily
accessible by the driver.
   (f)   (1)   Except if an ordinance or resolution is enacted or adopted under
division (f)(2) of this section, this section does not apply to a person who,
pursuant to a prearranged contract, is a passenger riding on a commercial
quadricycle when all of the following apply:
         A.   The person is not occupying a seat in the front of the commercial
quadricycle where the operator is steering or braking.
         B.   The commercial quadricycle is being operated on a street,
highway, or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking.
         C.   The person has in their possession on the commercial quadricycle
an opened container of beer or wine.
         D.   The person has in their possession on the commercial quadricycle
not more than either 36 ounces of beer or 18 ounces of wine.
      (2)   The Legislative Authority may enact an ordinance or adopt a
resolution, as applicable, that prohibits a passenger riding on a commercial
quadricycle from possessing an opened container of beer or wine.
      (3)   As used in this section, “commercial quadricycle” means a vehicle
that has fully- operative pedals for propulsion entirely by human power and
that meets all of the following requirements:
         A.   It has four wheels and is operated in a manner similar to a
bicycle.
         B.   It has at least five seats for passengers.
         C.   It is designed to be powered by the pedaling of the operator and
the passengers.
         D.   It is used for commercial purposes.
         E.   It is operated by the vehicle owner or an employee of the owner.
   (g)   (1)   This section does not apply to a person that has in the person’s
possession an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor on the premises
of a market if the beer or intoxicating liquor has been purchased from a D
liquor permit holder that is located in the market.
      (2)   As used in division (g) of this section, “market” means an
establishment that:
         A.   Leases space in the market to individual vendors, not less than
50% of which are retail food establishments or food service operations licensed
under R.C. Chapter 3717;
         B.   Has an indoor sales floor area of not less than 22,000 square
feet;
         C.   Hosts a farmer’s market on each Saturday from April through
December.
(R.C. § 4301.62)
   (h)   (1)   As used in this section, "alcoholic beverage" has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 4303.185.
      (2)   An alcoholic beverage in a closed container being transported under
R.C. § 4303.185 to its final destination is not an opened container for the
purposes of this section if the closed container is securely sealed in such a
manner that it is visibly apparent if the closed container has been
subsequently opened or tampered with after sealing.
   (i)   This section does not apply to a person who has in the person's
possession an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor in a public-use
airport, as described in R.C. § 4303.181(D)(2)(a)(iii), when both of the
following apply:
      (1)   Consumption of the opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
occurs in the area of the airport terminal that is restricted to persons taking
flights to and from the airport; and
      (2)   The consumption is authorized under R.C. § 4303.181(D)(2)(a).
   (j)   This section does not apply to a person that has in the person's
possession an opened container of homemade beer or wine that is served in
accordance with R.C. § 4301.201(E).
(R.C. § 4301.62)
   (k)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4301.99(A))
§ 612.08 HOURS OF SALE OR CONSUMPTION.
   (a)   This section shall apply to the retail sale of beer, wine, mixed
beverages or spirituous liquor.
   (b)   No beer, wine, mixed beverages, or spirituous liquor shall be sold or
delivered by an A-1, A-1C, A-2, B-1, B-2, B-4, B-5, C-1, C-2, C-2X, D-1, D-2,
D-2X, D-3 when issued without a D-3A, D-3X, D-4, D-5H, D-5K, D-8, F, F-1, F-2,
F-3, F-4, F-5, F-6, F-7, F-8, F-9, G, or I permit holder:
      (1)   From Monday to Saturday between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:30
a.m.
      (2)   On Sunday between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and Sunday midnight,
unless statutorily authorized otherwise.
      (3)   Consumption of beer, wine, mixed beverages or spirituous liquor is
also prohibited during the above hours upon the premises of the above permit
holders who are authorized by their permit to sell beer, wine, mixed beverages
or spirituous liquor for on-premises consumption.
   (c)   No beer, wine, mixed beverages or spirituous liquor shall be sold or
delivered by an A-1A, D-3 when issued with a D-3A, D-4A, D-5, D-5A, D-5B, D-5C,
D-5D, D-5E, D-5F, D-5G, D-5I, D-5J, D-5L, D-5M, D-5N, D-5O, or D-7 permit
holder:
      (1)   From Monday to Saturday between the hours of 2:30 a.m. and 5:30
a.m.
      (2)   On Sunday between the hours of 2:30 a.m. and Sunday midnight,
unless statutorily authorized otherwise.
      (3)   Consumption of beer, wine, mixed beverages or spirituous liquor is
also prohibited during the above hours upon the premises of the above permit
holders who are authorized by their permit to sell beer, wine, mixed beverages
or spirituous liquor for on-premises consumption.
   (d)   Permit holders authorized to sell beer, wine, mixed beverages or
spirituous liquor at retail who are not specifically identified in divisions
(b) or (c) above shall be subject to the provisions of division (b), unless
statutorily authorized otherwise.
   (e)   The hours on Sunday during which sales, delivery or consumption of
alcoholic beverages may take place are established by statute, but in no event
shall they begin prior to 5:30 a.m.
(O.A.C. 4301:1-1-49)
   (f)   No association, corporation, local unit of an association or
corporation or D permit holder who holds an F-2 permit shall sell beer or
intoxicating liquor beyond the hours of sale allowed by the permit. This
division imposes strict liability on the holder of the permit and on any
officer, agent or employee of the permit holder.
(R.C. § 4303.202(D)(2))
   (g)   No F-8 permit holder shall sell beer or intoxicating liquor beyond the
hours of sale allowed by the permit. This division imposes strict liability on
the holder of an F-8 permit and on any officer, agent or employee of that
permit holder.
(R.C. § 4303.208(C))
   (h)   Whoever violates divisions (f) or (g) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4303.99(D))
§ 612.09 CONVEYING INTOXICATING LIQUOR OR CASH ONTO GROUNDS OF DETENTION
FACILITIES OR OTHER SPECIFIED GOVERNMENTAL FACILITIES.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly convey, or attempt to convey, onto the
grounds of a detention facility or of an institution, office building or other
place that is under the control of the Department of Mental Health and
Addiction Services, the Department of Developmental Disabilities, the
Department of Youth Services or the Department of Rehabilitation and
Correction, any of the following items:
      (1)   Any deadly weapon or dangerous ordnance, as defined in R.C. §
2923.11, or any part of or ammunition for use in the deadly weapon or dangerous
ordnance.
      (2)   Any drug of abuse, as defined in R.C. § 3719.011.
      (3)   Any intoxicating liquor, as defined in R.C. § 4301.01, except for
small amounts of wine for sacramental purposes when the person engaging in the
specified conduct is a cleric, as defined in R.C. § 2317.02.
   (b)   Division (a) of this section does not apply to any person who conveys
or attempts to convey an item onto the grounds of a detention facility or of an
institution, office building or other place under the control of the Department
of Mental Health and Addiction Services, the Department of Developmental
Disabilities, the Department of Youth Services or the Department of
Rehabilitation and Correction, with written authorization of the person in
charge of the detention facility or the institution and in accordance with the
written rules of the detention facility or the institution, office building or
other place.
   (c)   No person shall knowingly deliver, or attempt to deliver, to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, to a prisoner who is temporarily released from confinement
for a work assignment, or to any patient in an institution under the control of
the Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services, or the Department of
Developmental Disabilities, any item listed in division (a).
   (d)   No person shall knowingly deliver or attempt to deliver cash to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, or to a prisoner who is temporarily released from
confinement for a work assignment.
   (e)   No person shall knowingly deliver, or attempt to deliver, to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, or to a prisoner who is temporarily released from
confinement for a work assignment a cellular telephone, two-way radio or other
electronic communications device.
   (f)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (a)(1)
of this section that the weapon or dangerous ordnance in question was being
transported in a motor vehicle for any lawful purpose, that it was not on the
actor’s person, and if the weapon or dangerous ordnance was a firearm, that it
was unloaded and was being carried in a closed package, box or case or in a
compartment that can be reached only by leaving the vehicle.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (c) of this
section that the actor was not otherwise prohibited by law from delivering the
item to the confined person, the child, the prisoner or the patient and that
either of the following applies:
         A.   The actor was permitted by the written rules of the detention
facility or the institution, office building or other place to deliver the item
to the confined person or the patient.
         B.   The actor was given written authorization by the person in charge
of the detention facility or the institution, office building or other place to
deliver the item to the confined person or the patient.
   (g)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a)(1) of this section or commits a
violation of division (c) of this section involving any item listed in division
(a)(1) of this section is guilty of illegal conveyance of weapons onto the
grounds of a specified governmental facility, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (a)(2) of this section or commits a
violation of division (c) of this section involving any drug of abuse is guilty
of illegal conveyance of drugs of abuse onto the grounds of a specified
governmental facility, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (a)(3) of this section or commits a
violation of division (c) of this section involving any intoxicating liquor is
guilty of illegal conveyance of intoxicating liquor onto the grounds of a
specified governmental facility, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (d) of this section is guilty of illegal
conveyance of cash onto the grounds of a detention facility, a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (d) of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, illegal conveyance of cash onto
the grounds of a detention facility is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (e) of this section is guilty of illegal
conveyance of a communications device onto the grounds of a specified
governmental facility, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (e)
of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
illegal conveyance of a communications device onto the grounds of a detention
facility is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.36)
§ 612.10 SALES OF LOW-ALCOHOL BEVERAGES TO UNDERAGE PERSONS; PROHIBITIONS AND
MISREPRESENTATIONS.
   (a)   As used in this section, “underage person” means a person under 18
years of age.
   (b)   No underage person shall purchase any low-alcohol beverage.
   (c)   No underage person shall order, pay for, share the cost of or attempt
to purchase any low- alcohol beverage.
   (d)   No person shall knowingly furnish any false information as to the
name, age or other identification of any underage person for the purpose of
obtaining or with the intent to obtain any low- alcohol beverage for an
underage person, by purchase or as a gift.
   (e)   No underage person shall knowingly show or give false information
concerning his or her name, age or other identification for the purpose of
purchasing or otherwise obtaining any low-alcohol beverage in any place in this
municipality.
   (f)   No person shall sell or furnish any low-alcohol beverage to, or buy
any low-alcohol beverage for, an underage person, unless given by a physician
in the regular line of his or her practice or given for established religious
purposes, or unless the underage person is accompanied by a parent, spouse who
is not an underage person, or legal guardian.
   (g)   (1)   No person who is the owner or occupant of any public or private
place shall knowingly allow any underage person to remain in or on the place
while possessing or consuming any low-alcohol beverage, unless the low-alcohol
beverage is given to the person possessing or consuming it by that person’s
parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian, and the
parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian is present when
the person possesses or consumes the low-alcohol beverage.
      (2)   An owner of a public or private place is not liable for acts or
omissions in violation of division (g)(1) that are committed by a lessee of
that place, unless the owner authorizes or acquiesces in the lessee’s acts or
omissions.
   (h)   No permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control shall be suspended,
revoked or cancelled because of a violation of either division (f) or (g).
   (i)   No underage person shall knowingly possess or consume any low-alcohol
beverage in any public or private place, unless he or she is accompanied by a
parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian, or unless the
low-alcohol beverage is given by a physician in the regular line of his or her
practice or given for established religious purposes.
   (j)   No parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian of
an underage person shall knowingly permit the underage person to violate this
section.
(R.C. § 4301.631)
   (k)   No low-alcohol beverage shall be sold to any person under 18 years of
age.
(R.C. § 4301.22(A)(2))
   (l)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section shall be fined not less
than $25 nor more than $100. The court imposing a fine for a violation of
division (b) of this section may order that the fine be paid by the performance
of public work at a reasonable hour rate established by the court. The court
shall designate the time within which the public work shall be completed.
(R.C. § 4301.99(E))
   (m)   Whoever violates divisions (c) through (k) hereof is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(B))
§ 612.11 ALCOHOL VAPORIZING DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   (a)   As used in this section, “alcohol vaporizing device” means a machine
or other device that mixes beer or intoxicating liquor with pure oxygen or any
other gas to produce a vaporized product for the purpose of consumption by
inhalation.
   (b)   No person shall sell or offer for sale an alcohol vaporizing device.
   (c)   No person shall purchase or use an alcohol vaporizing device.
(R.C. § 4301.65)
   (d)   (1)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of
misdemeanor of the third degree. For a second or subsequent violation occurring
within a period of five consecutive years after the first violation, a person
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(J))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (c) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4301.99(A))
CHAPTER 618: ANIMALS
Section
618.01   Dogs and other animals running at large; nuisance, dangerous and
vicious dogs; hearings.
618.02   Abandoning animals.
618.03   Killing or injuring animals.
618.04   Poisoning animals.
618.05   Cruelty to animals; cruelty to companion animals.
618.06   Coloring rabbits and baby poultry; sale or display of poultry.
618.07   Barking or howling dogs.
618.08   Registration of dogs required.
618.09   Hindering capture of unregistered dog.
618.095   Dogs required to wear tags.
618.10   Unlawful tags.
618.11   Rabies quarantine.
618.12   Hunting prohibited.
618.13   Nuisance conditions prohibited.
618.14   Impounding and disposition; records.
618.15   Restrictions on dog ownership for certain convicted felons.
618.16   Sexual conduct with an animal.
618.17   Geese feeding prohibited.
618.18   Maximum number of dogs, cats, chickens, ducks, and/or rabbits
permitted.
Cross-references:
   Assaulting police dog or horse or assistance dog, see §
642.12
   Definitions generally, see §
606.01
   Driving animals upon roadway, see §§
404.05,
412.05
   Duck/geese feeding area, see §
1062.07
   Offensive odors from places where animals are kept or fed, see §
660.04
Statutory references:
   Power to restrain and impound animals, see R.C. § 715.23
   Possession of dangerous wild animals and restricted snakes, requirements and
licensing, see R.C. Chapter 935
§ 618.01 DOGS AND OTHER ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE; NUISANCE, DANGEROUS AND
VICIOUS DOGS; HEARINGS.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Dangerous dog.”
         A.   A dog that, without provocation, and subject to division R.C. §
955.11(B), has done any of the following:
            1.   Caused injury, other than killing or serious injury, to any
person;
            2.   Killed another dog;
            3.   Been the subject of a third or subsequent violation of R.C. §
955.22(C) or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
         B.   “Dangerous dog” does not include a police dog that has caused
injury, other than killing or serious injury, to any person or has killed
another dog while the police dog is being used to assist one or more law
enforcement officers in the performance of their official duties.
      (2)   “Menacing fashion.” A dog that would cause any person being chased
or approached to reasonably believe that the dog will cause physical injury to
that person.
      (3)   “Nuisance dog.”
         A.   Subject to R.C. § 955.11(B), “nuisance dog” means a dog that
without provocation and while off the premises of its owner, keeper, or
harborer has chased or approached a person in either a menacing fashion or an
apparent attitude of attack or has attempted to bite or otherwise endanger any
person.
         B.   “Nuisance dog” does not include a police dog that, while being
used to assist one or more law enforcement officers in the performance of
official duties, has chased or approached a person in either a menacing fashion
or an apparent attitude of attack or has attempted to bite or otherwise
endanger any person.
      (4)   “Police dog.” A dog that has been trained and may be used to assist
one or more law enforcement officers in the performance of their official
duties.
      (5)   “Serious injury.” Any of the following:
         A.   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death;
         B.   Any physical harm that involves a permanent incapacity, whether
partial or total, or a temporary, substantial incapacity;
         C.   Any physical harm that involves a permanent disfigurement or a
temporary, serious disfigurement;
         D.   Any physical harm that involves acute pain of a duration that
results in substantial suffering or any degree of prolonged or intractable
pain.
      (6)   “Vicious dog.”
         A.   A dog that, without provocation and subject to division R.C. §
955.11(B), has killed or caused serious injury to any person.
         B.   “Vicious dog” does not include either of the following:
            1.   A police dog that has killed or caused serious injury to any
person while the police dog is being used to assist one or more law enforcement
officers in the performance of their official duties;
            2.   A dog that has killed or caused serious injury to any person
while a person was committing or attempting to commit a trespass or other
criminal offense on the property of the owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog.
      (7)   “Without provocation.” A dog acts “without provocation” when it was
not teased, tormented or abused by a person, or it was not coming to the aid or
the defense of a person who was not engaged in illegal or criminal activity and
who was not using the dog as a means of carrying out the activity.
(R.C. § 955.11(A))
   (b)   No person, who is the owner or keeper of horses, mules, cattle, bison,
sheep, goats, swine, llamas, alpacas, or poultry, shall permit them to run at
large in the public road, highway, street, lane, or alley, or upon unenclosed
land, or cause the animals to be herded, kept, or detained for the purpose of
grazing on premises other than those owned or lawfully occupied by the owner or
keeper of the animals.
(R.C. § 951.02)
   (c)   No owner, keeper or harborer of any female dog shall permit it to go
beyond the premises of the owner, keeper or harborer at any time the dog is in
heat unless the dog is properly in leash.
   (d)   Except when a dog is lawfully engaged in hunting and accompanied by
the owner, keeper, harborer, or handler of the dog, no owner, keeper or
harborer of any dog shall fail at any time to do either of the following:
      (1)   Keep the dog physically confined or restrained upon the premises of
the owner, keeper or harborer by a leash, tether, adequate fence, supervision
or secure enclosure to prevent escape;
      (2)   Keep the dog under the reasonable control of some person.
   (e)   Except when a dangerous dog is lawfully engaged in hunting or training
for the purpose of hunting and is accompanied by the owner, keeper, harborer,
or handler of the dog, no owner, keeper or harborer of a dangerous dog shall
fail to do either of the following:
      (1)   While the dog is on the premises of the owner, keeper or harborer,
securely confine it at all times in a locked pen that has a top.
      (2)   While the dog is off the premises of the owner, keeper or harborer,
keep that dog on a chain-link leash or tether that is not more than six feet in
length and additionally do at least one of the following: keep the dog in a
locked pen that has a top, locked fenced yard or other locked enclosure that
has a top; have the leash or tether controlled by a person who is of suitable
age and discretion or securely attach, tie or affix the leash or tether to the
ground or a stationary object or fixture so that the dog is adequately
restrained and station a person in close enough proximity to that dog so as to
prevent it from causing injury to any person; or muzzle that dog.
   (f)   No person who has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more
violations of division (d) of this section involving the same dog and no owner,
keeper, or harborer of a dangerous dog shall fail to do the following:
      (1)   Obtain liability insurance with an insurer authorized to write
liability insurance in this state providing coverage in each occurrence because
of damage or bodily injury to or death of a person caused by the dangerous dog
if so ordered by a court and provide proof of that liability insurance upon
request to any law enforcement officer, county dog warden, or public health
official charged with enforcing this section;
      (2)   Obtain a dangerous dog registration certificate from the County
Auditor pursuant to division (j) of this section, affix a tag that identifies
the dog as a dangerous dog to the dog’s collar, and ensure that the dog wears
the collar and tag at all times;
      (3)   Notify the local dog warden immediately if any of the following
occurs:
         A.   The dog is loose or unconfined.
         B.   The dog bites a person, unless the dog is on the property of the
owner of the dog, and the person who is bitten is unlawfully trespassing or
committing a criminal act within the boundaries of that property.
         C.   The dog attacks another animal while the dog is off the property
of the owner of the dog.
      (4)   If the dog is sold, given to another person, or dies, notify the
County Auditor within ten days of the sale, transfer, or death.
   (g)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Debark or surgically silence a dog that the person knows or has
reason to believe is a dangerous dog;
      (2)   Possess a dangerous dog if the person knows or has reason to
believe that the dog has been debarked or surgically silenced;
      (3)   Falsely attest on a waiver form provided by the veterinarian under
division (h) of this section that the person’s dog is not a dangerous dog or
otherwise provide false information on that written waiver form.
   (h)   Before a veterinarian debarks or surgically silences a dog, the
veterinarian may give the owner of the dog a written waiver form that attests
that the dog is not a dangerous dog. The written waiver form shall include all
of the following:
      (1)   The veterinarian’s license number and current business address;
      (2)   The number of the license of the dog if the dog is licensed;
      (3)   A reasonable description of the age, coloring and gender of the dog
as well as any notable markings on the dog;
      (4)   The signature of the owner of the dog attesting that the owner’s
dog is not a dangerous dog;
      (5)   A statement that R.C. § 955.22(F) prohibits any person from doing
any of the following:
         A.   Debarking or surgically silencing a dog that the person knows or
has reason to believe is a dangerous dog;
         B.   Possessing a dangerous dog if the person knows or has reason to
believe that the dog has been debarked or surgically silenced;
         C.   Falsely attesting on a waiver form provided by the veterinarian
under R.C. § 955.22(G) that the person’s dog is not a dangerous dog or
otherwise provide false information on that written waiver form.
   (i)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of division
(g) of this section that the veterinarian who is charged with the violation
obtained, prior to debarking or surgically silencing the dog, a written waiver
form that complies with division (h) of this section and that attests that the
dog is not a dangerous dog.
   (j)   (1)   The County Auditor shall issue a dangerous dog registration
certificate to a person who is the owner of a dog, who is 18 years of age or
older, and who provides the following to the County Auditor:
         A.   A fee of $50;
         B.   The person’s address, phone number, and other appropriate means
for the local dog warden or County Auditor to contact the person;
         C.   With respect to the person and the dog for which the registration
is sought, all of the following:
            1.   Either satisfactory evidence of the dog’s current rabies
vaccination or a statement from a licensed veterinarian that a rabies
vaccination is medically contraindicated for the dog;
            2.   Either satisfactory evidence of the fact that the dog has been
neutered or spayed or a statement from a licensed veterinarian that neutering
or spaying of the dog is medically contraindicated;
            3.   Satisfactory evidence of the fact that the person has posted
and will continue to post clearly visible signs at the person’s residence
warning both minors and adults of the presence of a dangerous dog on the
property;
            4.   Satisfactory evidence of the fact that the dog has been
permanently identified by means of a microchip and the dog’s microchip number.
      (2)   Upon the issuance of a dangerous dog registration certificate to
the owner of a dog, the County Auditor shall provide the owner with a uniformly
designed tag that identifies the animal as a dangerous dog. The owner shall
renew the certificate annually for the same fee and in the same manner as the
initial certificate was obtained. If a certificate holder relocates to a new
county, the certificate holder shall follow the procedure in division (j)(3)B.
of this section and, upon the expiration of the certificate issued in the
original county, shall renew the certificate in the new county.
      (3)   A.   If the owner of a dangerous dog for whom a registration
certificate has previously been obtained relocates to a new address within the
same county, the owner shall provide notice of the new address to the County
Auditor within ten days of relocating to the new address.
         B.   If the owner of a dangerous dog for whom a registration
certificate has previously been obtained relocates to a new address within
another county, the owner shall do both of the following within ten days of
relocating to the new address:
            1.   Provide written notice of the new address and a copy of the
original dangerous dog registration certificate to the County Auditor of the
new county;
            2.   Provide written notice of the new address to the County
Auditor of the county where the owner previously resided.
      (4)   The owner of a dangerous dog shall present the dangerous dog
registration certificate upon being requested to do so by any law enforcement
officer, dog warden, or public health official charged with enforcing this
section.
(R.C. § 955.22)
   (k)   Hearing.
      (1)   The municipal court or county court that has territorial
jurisdiction over the residence of the owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog
shall conduct any hearing concerning the designation of the dog as a nuisance
dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog.
      (2)   If a person who is authorized to enforce this chapter has
reasonable cause to believe that a dog in the person’s jurisdiction is a
nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog, the person shall notify the owner,
keeper, or harborer of that dog, by certified mail or in person, of both of the
following:
         A.   That the person has designated the dog a nuisance dog, dangerous
dog, or vicious dog, as applicable;
         B.   That the owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog may request a
hearing regarding the designation in accordance with this division (k). The
notice shall include instructions for filing a request for a hearing in the
county in which the dog’s owner, keeper, or harborer resides.
      (3)   If the owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog disagrees with the
designation of the dog as a nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog, as
applicable, the owner, keeper, or harborer, not later than ten days after
receiving notification of the designation, may request a hearing regarding the
determination. The request for a hearing shall be in writing and shall be filed
with the municipal court or county court that has territorial jurisdiction over
the residence of the dog’s owner, keeper, or harborer. At the hearing, the
person who designated the dog as a nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog
has the burden of proving, by clear and convincing evidence, that the dog is a
nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog. The owner, keeper, or harborer of
the dog or the person who designated the dog as a nuisance dog, dangerous dog,
or vicious dog may appeal the court’s final determination as in any other case
filed in that court.
      (4)   A court, upon motion of an owner, keeper, or harborer or an
attorney representing the owner, keeper, or harborer, may order that the dog
designated as a nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog be held in the
possession of the owner, keeper, or harborer until the court makes a final
determination under this section or during the pendency of an appeal, as
applicable. Until the court makes a final determination and during the pendency
of any appeal, the dog shall be confined or restrained in accordance with the
provisions of division (e) that apply to dangerous dogs regardless of whether
the dog has been designated as a vicious dog or a nuisance dog rather than a
dangerous dog. The owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog shall not be required
to comply with any other requirements established in this Code or the Ohio
Revised Code that concern a nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog, as
applicable, until the court makes a final determination and during the pendency
of any appeal.
      (5)   If a dog is finally determined under this division (k), or on
appeal as described in this division (k), to be a vicious dog, R.C. § 955.11(D)
and divisions (e) to (j) of this section apply with respect to the dog and the
owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog as if the dog were a dangerous dog, and §
618.16 applies with respect to the dog as if it were a dangerous dog, and the
court shall issue an order that specifies that those provisions apply with
respect to the dog and the owner, keeper, or harborer in that manner. As part
of the order, the court shall require the owner, keeper, or harborer to obtain
the liability insurance required under division (f)(1) in an amount described
in division (l)(5)B. of this section.
      (6)   As used in this division (k), “nuisance dog”, “dangerous dog”, and
“vicious dog” have the same meanings as in R.C. § 955.11.
(R.C. § 955.222)
   (l)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever recklessly violates division (b) of this section is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 951.99)
      (2)   A.   Whoever violates division (c) of this section or commits a
violation of division (d) of this section that involves a dog that is not a
nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog shall be fined not less than $25 or
more than $100 on a first offense, and on each subsequent offense shall be
fined not less than $75 or more than $250 and may be imprisoned for not more
than 30 days.
         B.   In addition to the penalties prescribed in division (l)(2)A. of
this section, if the offender is guilty of a violation of division (c) of this
section or a violation of division (d) of this section that involves a dog that
is not a nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog, the court may order the
offender to personally supervise the dog that the offender owns, keeps, or
harbors, to cause that dog to complete dog obedience training, or to do both.
(R.C. § 955.99(E))
      (3)   A.   Whoever commits a violation of division (d) of this section
that involves a nuisance dog is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on the first
offense and of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on each subsequent offense
involving the same dog. Upon a person being convicted of or pleading guilty to
a third violation of division (d) of this section involving the same dog, the
court shall require the offender to register the involved dog as a dangerous
dog.
         B.   In addition to the penalties prescribed in division (l)(2)A. of
this section, if a violation of division (d) of this section involves a
nuisance dog, the court may order the offender to personally supervise the
nuisance dog that the offender owns, keeps, or harbors, to cause that dog to
complete dog obedience training, or to do both.
(R.C. § 955.99(F))
      (4)   Whoever commits a violation of division (d) of this section that
involves a dangerous dog, or a violation of division (e) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and of a
misdemeanor of the third degree on each subsequent offense. Additionally, the
court may order the offender to personally supervise the dangerous dog that the
offender owns, keeps, or harbors, to cause that dog to complete dog obedience
training, or to do both, and the court may order the offender to obtain
liability insurance pursuant to division (f) of this section. The court, in the
alternative, may order the dangerous dog to be humanely destroyed by a licensed
veterinarian, the county dog warden, or the county humane society at the
owner’s expense. With respect to a violation of division (d) of this section
that involves a dangerous dog, until the court makes a final determination and
during the pendency of any appeal of a violation of that division and at the
discretion of the dog warden, the dog shall be confined or restrained in
accordance with division (e) of this section or at the county dog pound at the
owner’s expense.
(R.C. § 955.99(G))
      (5)   A.   Whoever commits a violation of division (d) of this section
that involves a vicious dog is guilty of one of the following:
            1.   A felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the
dog kills or seriously injures a person. Additionally, the court shall order
that the vicious dog be humanely destroyed by a licensed veterinarian, the
county dog warden, or the county humane society at the owner’s expense.
            2.   A misdemeanor of the first degree if the dog causes serious
injury to a person. Additionally, the court may order the vicious dog to be
humanely destroyed by a licensed veterinarian, the county dog warden, or the
county humane society at the owner’s expense.
         B.   If the court does not order the vicious dog to be destroyed under
division (l)(5)A.2. of this section, the court shall issue an order that
specifies that R.C. § 955.11(D) and divisions (e) to (j) of this section apply
with respect to the dog and the owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog as if the
dog were a dangerous dog and that §
618.16 applies with respect to the dog as if it were a dangerous dog. As part
of the order, the court shall order the offender to obtain the liability
insurance required under division (f)(1) of this section in an amount,
exclusive of interest and costs, that equals or exceeds $100,000. Until the
court makes a final determination and during the pendency of any appeal of a
violation of division (d) of this section and at the discretion of the dog
warden, the dog shall be confined or restrained in accordance with the
provisions described in division (e) of this section or at the county dog pound
at the owner’s expense.
(R.C. § 955.99(H))
      (6)   Whoever violates division (f)(2) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 955.99(J))
      (7)   Whoever violates division (g)(1), (g)(2), or (g)(3) of this section
is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
Additionally, the court shall order that the dog involved in the violation be
humanely destroyed by a licensed veterinarian, the county dog warden, or the
county humane society. Until the court makes a final determination and during
the pendency of any appeal of a violation of division (g)(1), (g)(2), or (g)(3)
of this section and at the discretion of the dog warden, the dog shall be
confined or restrained in accordance with the provisions of division (e) of
this section or at the county dog pound at the owner’s expense.
(R.C. § 955.99(L))
      (8)   Whoever violates division (f)(1), (f)(3), or (f)(4) of this section
is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 955.99(M))
      (9)   Whoever violates division (j)(4) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 955.99(N))
      (10)   A.   If a dog is confined at the county dog pound pursuant to
division (l)(4), (l)(5), or (l)(7) of this section, the county dog warden shall
give written notice of the confinement to the owner of the dog. If the county
dog warden is unable to give the notice to the owner of the dog, the county dog
warden shall post the notice on the door of the residence of the owner of the
dog or in another conspicuous place on the premises at which the dog was
seized. The notice shall include a statement that a security in the amount of
$100 is due to the county dog warden within ten days to secure payment of all
reasonable expenses, including medical care and boarding of the dog for 60
days, expected to be incurred by the county dog pound in caring for the dog
pending the determination. The county dog warden may draw from the security any
actual costs incurred in caring for the dog.
         B.   If the person ordered to post security under division (l)(10)A.
of this section does not do so within ten days of the confinement of the
animal, the dog is forfeited, and the county dog warden may determine the
disposition of the dog unless the court issues an order that specifies
otherwise.
         C.   Not more than ten days after the court makes a final
determination under division (l)(4), (l)(5), or (l)(7) of this section, the
county dog warden shall provide the owner of the dog with the actual cost of
the confinement of the dog. If the county dog warden finds that the security
provided under division (l)(10)A. of this section is less than the actual cost
of confinement of the dog, the owner shall remit the difference between the
security provided and the actual cost to the county dog warden within 30 days
after the court’s determination. If the county dog warden finds that the
security provided under division (l)(10)A. of this section is greater than that
actual cost, the county dog warden shall remit the difference between the
security provided and the actual cost to the owner within 30 days after the
court’s determination.
(R.C. § 955.99(P))
      (11)   As used in this division (l), “nuisance dog”, “dangerous dog”, and
“vicious dog” have the same meanings as in R.C. § 955.11.
(R.C. § 955.99(Q))
§ 618.02 ABANDONING ANIMALS.
   (a)   No owner or keeper of a dog, cat or other domestic animal shall
abandon the animal.
(R.C. § 959.01)
   (b)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the second degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the
first degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 959.99(E)(3))
§ 618.03 KILLING OR INJURING ANIMALS.
   (a)   No person shall maliciously, or willfully and without the consent of
the owner, kill or injure a dog, cat or any other domestic animal that is the
property of another. This section does not apply to a licensed veterinarian
acting in an official capacity.
(R.C. § 959.02)
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (a) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
If the value of the animal killed or the injury done amounts to $300 or more,
whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 959.99(B))
§ 618.04 POISONING ANIMALS.
   (a)   No person shall maliciously, or willfully and without the consent of
the owner, administer poison, except a licensed veterinarian acting in that
capacity, to a dog, cat or any other domestic animal that is the property of
another; and no person shall, willfully and without the consent of the owner,
place any poisoned food where it may be easily found and eaten by any such
animal, either upon his or her own lands or the lands of another.
(R.C. § 959.03)
   (b)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 959.99(C))
§ 618.05 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS; CRUELTY TO COMPANION ANIMALS.
   (a)   No person shall:
      (1)   Torture an animal, deprive one of necessary sustenance,
unnecessarily or cruelly beat, needlessly mutilate or kill, or impound or
confine an animal without supplying it during the confinement with a sufficient
quantity of good wholesome food and water;
      (2)   Impound or confine an animal without affording it, during the
confinement, access to shelter from wind, rain, snow or excessive direct
sunlight, if it can reasonably be expected that the animal would otherwise
become sick or in some other way suffer. This division does not apply to
animals impounded or confined prior to slaughter. For the purpose of this
section, “shelter” means an artificial enclosure, windbreak, sunshade or
natural windbreak or sunshade that is developed from the earth’s contour, tree
development or vegetation;
      (3)   Carry or convey an animal in a cruel or inhuman manner;
      (4)   Keep animals other than cattle, poultry or fowl, swine, sheep or
goats in an enclosure without wholesome exercise and change of air, nor feed
cows on food that produces impure or unwholesome milk;
      (5)   Detain livestock in railroad cars or compartments longer than 28
hours after they are so placed without supplying them with necessary food,
water and attention, nor permit the stock to be so crowded as to overlie,
crush, wound or kill each other.
   (b)   Upon the written request of the owner or person in custody of any
particular shipment of livestock, which written request shall be separate and
apart from any printed bill of lading or other railroad form, the length of
time in which the livestock may be detained in any cars or compartment without
food, water, and attention may be extended to 36 hours without penalty
therefor. Division (a) of this section does not prevent the dehorning of
cattle.
   (c)   All fines collected for violations of division (a) of this section
shall be paid to the Society or Association for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals, if there is one in the municipality; otherwise, all fines shall be
paid to the General Fund.
(R.C. § 959.13)
   (d)   Cruelty to companion animals.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         A.   “Boarding kennel.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 956.01.
         B.   “Captive white-tailed deer.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
1531.01.
         C.   “Companion animal.” Any animal that is kept inside a residential
dwelling and any dog or cat regardless of where it is kept, including a pet
store as defined in R.C. § 956.01. “Companion animal” does not include
livestock or any wild animal.
         D.   “Cruelty.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1717.01.
         E.   “Dog kennel.” Means an animal rescue for dogs that is registered
under R.C. § 956.06, a boarding kennel, or a training kennel.
         F.   “Federal Animal Welfare Act.” The “Laboratory Animal Act of
1966”, Pub. L. No. 89-544, 80 Stat. 350 (1966), 7 U.S.C. §§ 2131 et seq., as
amended by the “Animal Welfare Act of 1970”, Pub. L. No. 91-579, 84 Stat. 1560
(1970), the “Animal Welfare Act Amendments of 1976”, Pub. L. No. 94-279, 90
Stat. 417 (1976), and the “Food Security Act of 1985”, Pub. L. No. 99-198, 99
Stat. 1354 (1985), and as it may be subsequently amended.
         G.   “Livestock.” Means horses, mules, and other equidae; cattle,
sheep, goats, and other bovidae; swine and other suidae; poultry; alpacas;
llamas; captive white-tailed deer; and any other animal that is raised or
maintained domestically for food or fiber.
         H.   “Practice of veterinary medicine.” Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 4741.01.
         I.   “Residential dwelling.” A structure or shelter or the portion of
a structure or shelter that is used by one or more humans for the purpose of a
habitation.
         J.   “Serious physical harm.” Means any of the following:
            1.   Physical harm that carries an unnecessary or unjustifiable
substantial risk of death;
            2.   Physical harm that involves either partial or total permanent
incapacity;
            3.   Physical harm that involves acute pain of a duration that
results in substantial suffering or that involves any degree of prolonged or
intractable pain;
            4.   Physical harm that results from a person who confines or who
is the custodian or caretaker of a companion animal depriving the companion
animal of good, wholesome food and water that proximately causes the death of
the companion animal.
         K.   “Torment.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1717.01.
         L.   “Torture.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1717.01.
         M.   “Training kennel.” Means an establishment operating for profit
that keeps, houses, and maintains dogs for the purpose of training the dogs in
return for a fee or other consideration.
         N.   “Wild animal.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1531.01.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly torture, torment, needlessly mutilate or
maim, cruelly beat, poison, needlessly kill or commit an act of cruelty against
a companion animal.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly cause serious physical harm to a
companion animal.
      (4)   No person who confines or who is the custodian or caretaker of a
companion animal shall negligently do any of the following:
         A.   Torture, torment, or commit an act of cruelty against the
companion animal;
         B.   Deprive the companion animal of necessary sustenance or confine
the companion animal without supplying it during the confinement with
sufficient quantities of good, wholesome food and water if it can reasonably be
expected that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other way
as a result of or due to the deprivation or confinement;
         C.   Impound or confine the companion animal without affording it,
during the impoundment or confinement, with access to shelter from heat, cold,
wind, rain, snow, or excessive direct sunlight if it can reasonably be expected
that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other way as a
result of or due to the lack of adequate shelter.
      (5)   No owner, manager, or employee of a dog kennel who confines or is
the custodian or caretaker of a companion animal shall knowingly do any of the
following:
         A.   Torture, torment, needlessly mutilate or maim, cruelly beat,
poison, needlessly kill, or commit an act of cruelty against the companion
animal;
         B.   Deprive the companion animal of necessary sustenance or confine
the companion animal without supplying it during the confinement with
sufficient quantities of good, wholesome food and water if it is reasonably
expected that the companion animal would die or experience unnecessary or
unjustifiable pain or suffering as a result of the deprivation or confinement;
         C.   Impound or confine the companion animal without affording it,
during the impoundment or confinement, with access to shelter from heat, cold,
wind, rain, snow, or excessive direct sunlight if it is reasonably expected
that the companion animal would die or experience unnecessary or unjustifiable
pain or suffering as a result of or due to the lack of adequate shelter.
      (6)   No owner, manager, or employee of a dog kennel who confines or is
the custodian or caretaker of a companion animal shall negligently do any of
the following:
         A.   Torture, torment, or commit an act of cruelty against the
companion animal;
         B.   Deprive the companion animal of necessary sustenance or confine
the companion animal without supplying it during the confinement with
sufficient quantities of good, wholesome food and water if it can reasonably be
expected that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other way
as a result of or due to the deprivation or confinement;
         C.   Impound or confine the companion animal without affording it,
during the impoundment or confinement, with access to shelter from heat, cold,
wind, rain, snow, or excessive direct sunlight if it can reasonably be expected
that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other way as a
result of or due to the lack of adequate shelter.
      (7)   Divisions (d)(2), (d)(3), (d)(4), (d)(5), and (d)(6) of this
section do not apply to any of the following:
         A.   A companion animal used in scientific research conducted by an
institution in accordance with the federal animal welfare act and related
regulations;
         B.   The lawful practice of veterinary medicine by a person who has
been issued a license, temporary permit, or registration certificate to do so
under R.C. Chapter 4741;
         C.   Dogs being used or intended for use for hunting or field trial
purposes, provided that the dogs are being treated in accordance with usual and
commonly accepted practices for the care of hunting dogs;
         D.   The use of common training devices, if the companion animal is
being treated in accordance with usual and commonly accepted practices for the
training of animals;
         E.   The administering of medicine to a companion animal that was
properly prescribed by a person who has been issued a license, temporary
permit, or registration certificate under R.C. Chapter 4741.
      (8)   Notwithstanding any section of the Ohio Revised Code that otherwise
provides for the distribution of fine moneys, the Clerk of Court shall forward
all fines the Clerk collects that are so imposed for any violation of this
division (d) to the Treasurer of the municipality, whose county humane society
or law enforcement agency is to be paid the fine money as determined under this
division. The Treasurer shall pay the fine moneys to the county humane society
or the county, township, municipal corporation, or state law enforcement agency
in this state that primarily was responsible for or involved in the
investigation and prosecution of the violation. If a county humane society
receives any fine moneys under this division, the county humane society shall
use the fine moneys either to provide the training that is required for humane
society agents under R.C. § 1717.061 or to provide additional training for
humane society agents.
(R.C. § 959.131)
   (e)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the second degree. In addition, the court may order the offender
to forfeit the animal or livestock and may provide for its disposition,
including but not limited to the sale of the animal or livestock. If an animal
or livestock is forfeited and sold pursuant to this division, the proceeds from
the sale first shall be applied to pay the expenses incurred with regard to the
care of the animal from the time it was taken from the custody of the former
owner. The balance of the proceeds from the sale, if any, shall be paid to the
former owner of the animal.
(R.C. § 959.99(D))
   (f)   (1)   Whoever violates division (d)(2) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree on a first offense and a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (d)(3) of this section is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (d)(4) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the second degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the
first degree on each subsequent offense.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (d)(5) of this section is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (d)(6) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (6)   A.   A court may order a person who is convicted of or pleads
guilty to a violation of division (d) of this section to forfeit to an
impounding agency, as defined in R.C. § 959.132, any or all of the companion
animals in that person’s ownership or care. The court also may prohibit or
place limitations on the person’s ability to own or care for any companion
animals for a specified or indefinite period of time.
         B.   A court may order a person who is convicted of or pleads guilty
to a violation of division (a) of this section or division (d) of this section
to reimburse an impounding agency for the reasonably necessary costs incurred
by the agency for the care of a companion animal that the agency impounded as a
result of the investigation or prosecution of the violation, provided that the
costs were not otherwise paid under R.C. § 959.132.
      (7)   If a court has reason to believe that a person who is convicted of
or pleads guilty to a violation of division (d) of this section suffers from a
mental or emotional disorder that contributed to the violation, the court may
impose as a community control sanction or as a condition of probation a
requirement that the offender undergo psychological evaluation or counseling.
The court shall order the offender to pay the costs of the evaluation or
counseling.
(R.C. § 959.99(E))
Statutory reference:
   Impoundment of companion animals; notice and hearing, see R.C. § 959.132
§ 618.06 COLORING RABBITS AND BABY POULTRY; SALE OR DISPLAY OF POULTRY.
   (a)   No person shall dye or otherwise color any rabbit or baby poultry,
including but not limited to chicks and ducklings. No person shall sell, offer
for sale, expose for sale, raffle or give away any rabbit or baby poultry which
has been dyed or otherwise colored. No poultry younger than four weeks of age
may be sold, given away or otherwise distributed to any person in lots of less
than six. Stores, shops, vendors and others offering young poultry for sale or
other distribution shall provide and operate brooders or other heating devices
that may be necessary to maintain poultry in good health, and shall keep
adequate food and water available to the poultry at all times.
(R.C. § 925.62)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree on a first offense; each subsequent offense is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
(R.C. § 925.99(B))
§ 618.07 BARKING OR HOWLING DOGS.
   (a)   No person shall own, harbor or keep in custody a dog which disturbs
the peace by barking, yelping, howling or making other loud noises to the
annoyance and/or discomfort of any person. Continuous barking, yelping, howling
and/or making other loud noises for 15 consecutive minutes by the dog, whether
confined inside a residence or building or to the outside area, shall be deemed
to have disturbed the peace and to have caused the annoyance and discomfort of
persons; provided, that at the time of the complaint, no person or persons were
trespassing or threatening to trespass upon the private property of the owner,
and provided that the dog was not being teased or provoked in any manner.
   (b)   Any person who shall allow any dog habitually to remain, be lodged or
fed within any dwelling, building, yard or enclosure owned or occupied by the
person shall be considered as harboring or keeping the dog.
   (c)   Upon an initial complaint, an enforcement officer shall warn the
person in writing of the violation. Upon a second such complaint within 30
days, the enforcement officer shall charge the person with a violation of this
section.
   (d)   Division (a) of this section does not apply to owners, operators or
employees of licensed veterinary hospitals, licensed kennels or licensed animal
boarding establishments, nor does this section apply to blind, deaf or hearing
impaired, or mobility impaired persons when the dog serves as an assistance
dog.
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
§ 618.08 REGISTRATION OF DOGS REQUIRED.
   (a)   No owner, keeper or harborer of a dog more than three months of age,
nor owner of a dog kennel, shall fail to file an application for registration
required by R.C. § 955.01, nor shall he or she fail to pay the legal fee
therefor.
(R.C. § 955.21)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $25 nor
more than $100 on a first offense, and on each subsequent offense shall be
fined not less than $75 nor more than $250 and may be imprisoned for not more
than 30 days.
(R.C. § 955.99(E))
§ 618.09 HINDERING CAPTURE OF UNREGISTERED DOG.
   (a)   No person shall obstruct or interfere with anyone lawfully engaged in
capturing an unlicensed dog or making an examination of a dog wearing a tag.
(R.C. § 955.24)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 955.99(B))
§ 618.095 DOGS REQUIRED TO WEAR TAGS.
   (a)   No owner of a dog, except a dog constantly confined to a dog kennel
registered under R.C. Chapter 955 or one licensed under R.C. Chapter 956, shall
fail to require the dog to wear, at all times, a valid tag issued in connection
with a certificate of registration. A dog found not wearing at any time a valid
tag shall be prima-facie evidence of lack of registration and shall subject any
dog found not wearing such a tag to impounding, sale, or destruction.
(R.C. § 955.10)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 955.99(B))
§ 618.10 UNLAWFUL TAGS.
   (a)   No person shall own, keep or harbor a dog wearing a fictitious,
altered or invalid registration tag or a registration tag not issued by the
County Auditor in connection with the registration of that animal.
(R.C. § 955.25)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 955.99(B))
§ 618.11 RABIES QUARANTINE.
   (a)   No person having knowledge of the existence of rabies in an animal, or
knowledge that an animal has exhibited symptoms or behavior suggestive of
rabies, or knowledge that an animal has bitten any person, shall fail to
immediately report that information to the Mayor or the Chief of Police.
   (b)   Whenever it is established by the Mayor or Chief of Police that any
animal has bitten any person or exhibits symptoms or behavior suggestive of
rabies, the person who owns, harbors or otherwise cares for the animal shall
confine it in close quarantine and isolation or shall place the animal in the
establishment of a veterinarian until, in either case, it is determined by the
County Board of Health that the animal is not afflicted with rabies. The
isolation and quarantine period hereby required shall be not less than ten days
from the date the person was bitten. If the animal has, or develops, any
symptoms suspicious of rabies during the ten-day period, the County Board of
Health shall be notified immediately. All expenses incurred for the keeping of
the animal, or the necessary tests to determine whether rabies exists, shall be
borne exclusively by the person who owns, harbors or otherwise cares for the
animal.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
§ 618.12 HUNTING PROHIBITED.
   (a)   The hunting of animals or fowl within the municipality is prohibited.
No person shall hunt, kill or attempt to kill any animal or fowl by the use of
firearms or any other means. However, nothing in this section shall be deemed
to prohibit the killing of rats and other undesirable rodents authorized to be
killed by the Chief of Police using means for this killing which are also
authorized by the Chief.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
§ 618.13 NUISANCE CONDITIONS PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No person shall keep or harbor any animal or fowl in the municipality
so as to create noxious or offensive odors or unsanitary conditions which are a
menace to the health, comfort or safety of the public.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
§ 618.14 IMPOUNDING AND DISPOSITION; RECORDS.
   (a)   A police officer or animal warden may impound every dog or other
animal found in violation of §
618.01. If the impounded dog is not wearing a valid registration tag, the dog
shall forthwith be turned over to an officer charged by law with the custody
and disposal of such dogs. If the dog is wearing a valid registration tag or
the identity of the owner or harborer is otherwise established, notice shall
immediately be given to the owner or harborer that the dog has been impounded.
Notice may be by telephone or by ordinary mail to the last known address of the
owner or harborer. The dog shall not be released except upon the payment of
reasonable expenses for its taking and keeping. Any dog not redeemed within
three days of the time it is seized or impounded may be sold or otherwise
disposed of as provided by R.C. § 955.16.
   (b)   A record of all dogs impounded, the disposition of the same, the
owner’s name and address, if known, and a statement of any costs or receipts
involving the dog shall be kept.
§ 618.15 RESTRICTIONS ON DOG OWNERSHIP FOR CERTAIN CONVICTED FELONS.
   (a)   No person who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a felony offense of
violence committed on or after May 22, 2012 or a felony violation of any
provision of R.C. Chapter 959, R.C. Chapter 2923 or R.C. Chapter 2925 committed
on or after May 22, 2012 shall knowingly own, possess, have custody of, or
reside in a residence with either of the following for a period of three years
commencing either upon the date of release of the person from any period of
incarceration imposed for the offense or violation or, if the person is not
incarcerated for the offense or violation, upon the date of the person’s final
release from the other sanctions imposed for the offense or violation:
      (1)   An unspayed or unneutered dog older than 12 weeks of age;
      (2)   Any dog that has been determined to be a dangerous dog under R.C.
Chapter 955 or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (b)   A person described in division (a) of this section shall microchip for
permanent identification any dog owned, possessed by, or in the custody of the
person.
   (c)   (1)   Division (a) of this section does not apply to any person who is
confined in a correctional institution of the Department of Rehabilitation and
Correction.
      (2)   Division (a) of this section does not apply to any person with
respect to any dog that the person owned, possessed, had custody of, or resided
in a residence with prior to May 22, 2012.
(R.C. § 955.54)
   (d)   Whoever violates division (a) or (b) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 955.99(O))
§ 618.16 SEXUAL CONDUCT WITH AN ANIMAL.
   (a)   As used in this section:
      (1)   "Animal". Means a nonhuman mammal, bird, reptile, or amphibian,
either dead or alive.
      (2)   "Offense." Means a violation of this section or an attempt, in
violation of R.C. § 2923.02, to violate this section.
      (3)   "Officer." Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 959.132.
      (4)   "Sexual conduct." Means either of the following committed for the
purpose of sexual gratification:
         A.   Any act done between a person and animal that involves contact of
the penis of one and the vulva of the other, the penis of one and the penis of
the other, the penis of one and the anus of the other, the mouth of one and the
penis of the other, the mouth of one and the anus of the other, the vulva of
one and the vulva of the other, the mouth of one and the vulva of the other,
any other contact between a reproductive organ of one and a reproductive organ
of the other, or any other insertion of a reproductive organ of one into an
orifice of the other;
         B.   Without a bona fide veterinary or animal husbandry purpose to do
so, the insertion, however slight, of any part of a person's body or any
instrument, apparatus, or other object into the vaginal, anal, or reproductive
opening of an animal.
   (b)   No person shall knowingly engage in sexual conduct with an animal or
knowingly possess, sell, or purchase an animal with the intent that it be
subjected to sexual conduct.
   (c)   No person shall knowingly organize, promote, aid, or abet in the
conduct of an act involving any sexual conduct with an animal.
(R.C. § 959.21)
   (d)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
second degree. In addition, the court may order the offender to forfeit the
animal or livestock and may provide for its disposition including but not
limited to the sale of the animal or livestock. If an animal or livestock is
forfeited and sold pursuant to this division, the proceeds from the sale first
shall be applied to pay the expenses incurred with regard to the care of the
animal from the time it was taken from the custody of the former owner. The
balance of the proceeds from the sale, if any, shall be paid to the former
owner of the animal.
(R.C. § 959.99(D))
      (2)   If a court has reason to believe that a person who is convicted of
or pleads guilty to a violation of this section suffers from a mental or
emotional disorder that contributed to the violation, the court may impose as a
community control sanction or as a condition of probation a requirement that
the offender undergo psychological evaluation or counseling. The court shall
order the offender to pay the costs of the evaluation or counseling.
(R.C. § 959.99(E)(6))
§ 618.17 GEESE FEEDING PROHIBITED.
   (a)   Generally. It is the intent of this section to protect the health,
safety and welfare of the community and its wildlife by prohibiting the feeding
of geese on public lands within the boundaries of the Village of Minerva Park.
The feeding of geese can lead to conflicts between wild animals and people
(including their pets) and dangerous situations, for people and/or result in
the wild animal being killed. The feeding of geese encourages them to halt
their normal migrations and establish residency in the village. The growing
populations of geese result in large amounts of their droppings that can
potentially spread disease. Other problems caused by droppings are excess
nutrients in the village’s lakes that in turn can cause algae blooms, damage to
lawns and the soiling of public areas around the village lakes and other
wetlands.
   (b)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning:
      (1)   “Feed.” To place, deposit scatter or distribute in a location
accessible to wildlife or waterfowl/migratory birds any type of food,
including, but not limited to, corn, wheat or other grains, bread, popcorn,
scraps or any substance liable to be eaten by geese.
      (2)   “Geese.” All species of geese that are not domesticated.
      (3)   “Person.” Any individual, corporation, company, partnership, firm,
association or political subdivision of this state subject to municipal
jurisdiction.
   (c)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally feed or set
out food for non-domesticated geese on public lands within the boundaries of
the Village of Minerva Park.
      (2)   A nuisance condition shall be deemed to exist for the purposes of
division (c)(1) when, as a natural and predictable result of the amount and
type of food given to geese, and/or the repetitive nature of the feedings, make
them do any of the following in the village:
         A.   Create a habitat on occupied residential property;
         B.   Cause substantial damage to tangible personal property or real
property; or
         C.   On more than one occasion, leaves feces on residential property.
   (d)   Penalties. Any person violating any of the prohibitions in this
section shall be deemed guilty of a minor misdemeanor for the first offense.
For the second and subsequent violations of this section, the violator shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. In addition, the court may
order at the violator’s expense, removal or transfer of the geese by the
appropriate company or authority.
(Ord. 5-2012, passed 2-11-2013)
§ 618.18 MAXIMUM NUMBER OF DOGS, CATS, CHICKENS, DUCKS, AND/OR RABBITS
PERMITTED.
   (a)   No person shall keep more than five dogs, cats, excluding puppies and/
or kittens less than six months old, in any single-family dwelling, or in any
separate dwelling unit in a two-family or multifamily structure within the
village. "Dwelling" and "dwelling unit" as used in this section, include the
lot or parcel of land on which the house or building containing the dwelling
unit is located, and all other structures located on the lot or parcel.
   (b)   No person shall keep more than five chickens, ducks or rabbits,
excluding chicks/peeps, ducklings, and/or kits less than six months old, at any
single-family dwelling. Chicken, rabbits and/or ducks are not permitted to be
kept at any separate dwelling unit in a two-family or multifamily structure
within the village. "Dwelling" and "dwelling unit" as used in this section,
include the lot or parcel of land on which the house or building containing the
dwelling unit is located, and all other structures located on the lot or
parcel.
(Ord. 08-2019, passed 10-14-2019)
CHAPTER 624: DRUGS
Section
624.01   Definitions
624.02   Trafficking in controlled substances; gift of marihuana
624.025   Cultivation of marihuana
624.03   Drug possession offenses
624.04   Possession of drug abuse instruments
624.05   Permitting drug abuse
624.06   Use or possession of paraphernalia
624.07   Abusing harmful intoxicants
624.073   Improperly dispensing or distributing nitrous oxide
624.076   Possessing nitrous oxide in motor vehicles
624.08   Illegal dispensing of drug samples
624.09   Counterfeit controlled substances
624.10   Controlled substance or prescription labels
624.11   Possession, sale and disposal of hypodermics
624.12   Evidence
624.13   Double jeopardy
624.14   Controlled substance schedules
624.15   Sale of pseudoephedrine
624.16   Sale of pure caffeine product
624.17   Sale of dextromethorphan
Cross-references:
   Alcoholic beverages, see
Ch. 612
   Disorderly conduct while voluntarily intoxicated, see §
648.04
   Driving or physical control while under the influence, see §
434.01
   Effect of voluntary intoxication on criminal liability, see §
606.07
   Intoxicated pedestrians, see §
416.10
   Placing harmful substance or objects in food or confection, see §
636.17
   Using weapons while intoxicated, see §
678.04
Statutory references:
   Administration of epinephrine, exemption from prosecution, see R.C. §
2925.64
   Treatment of drug dependent persons in lieu of conviction, see R.C. §
2951.041
§ 624.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words,
terms and phrases and their derivatives used in this chapter which are not
defined in this section shall have the meanings given to them in the Ohio
Revised Code.
   (a)   “Administer.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   (b)   “Adulterate.” To cause a drug to be adulterated as described in R.C. §
3715.63.
   (c)   "Alcohol and drug addiction services." Has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 5119.01.
   (d)   “Bulk amount.” Of a controlled substance, means any of the following:
      (1)   For any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance included in
Schedule I, Schedule II, or Schedule III, with the exception of any controlled
substance analog, marihuana, cocaine, L.S.D., heroin, any fentanyl-related
compound, and hashish and except as provided in division (2), (5), or (6) of
this definition, whichever of the following is applicable:
         A.   An amount equal to or exceeding ten grams or 25 unit doses of a
compound, mixture, preparation or substance that is or contains any amount of a
Schedule I opiate or opium derivative;
         B.   An amount equal to or exceeding ten grams of a compound, mixture,
preparation or substance that is or contains any amount of raw or gum opium;
         C.   An amount equal to or exceeding 30 grams or ten unit doses of a
compound, mixture, preparation or substance that is or contains any amount of a
Schedule I hallucinogen other than tetrahydrocannabinol or lysergic acid amide,
or a Schedule I stimulant or depressant;
         D.   An amount equal to or exceeding 20 grams or five times the
maximum daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard
pharmaceutical reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation or
substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule II opiate or opium
derivative;
         E.   An amount equal to or exceeding five grams or ten unit doses of a
compound, mixture, preparation or substance that is or contains any amount of
phencyclidine;
         F.   An amount equal to or exceeding 120 grams or 30 times the maximum
daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard pharmaceutical
reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule II stimulant that is in a final dosage form
manufactured by a person authorized by the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act
(21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., as amended) and the federal drug abuse control laws,
as defined in this section, that is or contains any amount of a Schedule II
depressant substance or a Schedule II hallucinogenic substance;
         G.   An amount equal to or exceeding three grams of a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule
II stimulant, or any of its salts or isomers, that is not in a final dosage
form manufactured by a person authorized by the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic
Act (21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., as amended) and the federal drug abuse control
laws;
      (2)   An amount equal to or exceeding 120 grams or 30 times the maximum
daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard pharmaceutical
reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III or IV substance other than an anabolic
steroid or a Schedule III opiate or opium derivative;
      (3)   An amount equal to or exceeding 20 grams or five times the maximum
daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard pharmaceutical
reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III opiate or opium derivative;
      (4)   An amount equal to or exceeding 250 milliliters or 250 grams of a
compound, mixture, preparation or substance that is or contains any amount of a
Schedule V substance;
      (5)   An amount equal to or exceeding 200 solid dosage units, 16 grams,
or 16 milliliters of a compound, mixture, preparation or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III anabolic steroid;
      (6)   For any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is a
combination of a fentanyl-related compound and any other compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V,
if the defendant is charged with a violation of R.C. § 2925.11 and the
sentencing provisions set forth in R.C. § 2925.11(C)(10)(b) and (C)(11) will
not apply regarding the defendant and the violation, the bulk amount of the
controlled substance for purposes of the violation is the amount specified in
division (1), (2), (3), (4), or (5) of this definition for the other Schedule
III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V controlled substance that is combined with the
fentanyl-related compound.
   (e)   “Certified grievance committee.” A duly constituted and organized
committee of the Ohio State Bar Association or of one or more local bar
associations of the state that complies with the criteria set forth in Rule V,
Section 6 of the Rules for the Government of the Bar of Ohio.
   (f)   “Cocaine.” Any of the following:
      (1)   A cocaine salt, isomer or derivative, a salt of a cocaine isomer or
derivative, or the base form of cocaine.
      (2)   Coca leaves or a salt, compound, derivative or preparation of coca
leaves, including ecgonine, a salt, isomer or derivative of ecgonine, or a salt
of an isomer or derivative of ecgonine.
      (3)   A salt, compound, derivative or preparation of a substance
identified in division (1) or (2) of this definition that is chemically
equivalent to or identical with any of those substances, except that the
substances shall not include decocainized coca leaves or extraction of coca
leaves if the extractions do not contain cocaine or ecgonine.
   (g)   “Committed in the vicinity of a juvenile.” An offense is “committed in
the vicinity of a juvenile” if the offender commits the offense within 100 feet
of a juvenile or within the view of a juvenile, regardless of whether the
offender knows the age of the juvenile, whether the offender knows the offense
is being committed within 100 feet of or within view of the juvenile, or
whether the juvenile actually views the commission of the offense.
   (h)   “Committed in the vicinity of a school.” An offense is “committed in
the vicinity of a school” if the offender commits the offense on school
premises, in a school building, or within 1,000 feet of the boundaries of any
school premises, regardless of whether the offender knows the offense is being
committed on school premises, in a school building, or within 1,000 feet of the
boundaries of any school premises.
   (i)   "Committed in the vicinity of a substance addiction services provider
or a recovering addict." An offense is "committed in the vicinity of a
substance addiction services provider or a recovering addict" if either of the
following apply:
      (1)   The offender commits the offense on the premises of a substance
addiction services provider's facility, including a facility licensed prior to
June 29, 2019, under R.C. § 5119.391 to provide methadone treatment or an
opioid treatment program licensed on or after that date under R.C. § 5119.37,
or within 500 feet of the premises of a substance addiction services provider's
facility and the offender knows or should know that the offense is being
committed within the vicinity of the substance addiction services provider's
facility.
      (2)   The offender sells, offers to sell, delivers, or distributes the
controlled substance or controlled substance analog to a person who is
receiving treatment at the time of the commission of the offense, or received
treatment within 30 days prior to the commission of the offense, from a
substance addiction services provider and the offender knows that the person is
receiving or received that treatment.
   (j)   “Controlled substance.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   (k)   “Controlled substance analog.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
3719.01.
   (l)   “Counterfeit controlled substance.” Any of the following:
      (1)   Any drug that bears, or whose container or label bears, a
trademark, trade name or other identifying mark used without authorization of
the owner of rights to the trademark, trade name or identifying mark.
      (2)   Any unmarked or unlabeled substance that is represented to be a
controlled substance manufactured, processed, packed or distributed by a person
other than the person that manufactured, processed, packed or distributed it.
      (3)   Any substance that is represented to be a controlled substance but
is not a controlled substance or is a different controlled substance.
      (4)   Any substance other than a controlled substance that a reasonable
person would believe to be a controlled substance because of its similarity in
shape, size and color, or its markings, labeling, packaging, distribution or
the price for which it is sold or offered for sale.
   (m)   “Cultivate.” Includes planting, watering, fertilizing or tilling.
   (n)   “Dangerous drug.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   (o)   “Deception.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   (p)   “Disciplinary counsel.” The disciplinary counsel appointed by the
Board of Commissioners on Grievances and Discipline of the Ohio Supreme Court
under the Rules for the Government of the Bar of Ohio.
   (q)   “Dispense.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   (r)   “Distribute.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   (s)   “Drug.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   (t)   “Drug abuse offense.” Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2913.02(A) that constitutes theft of drugs,
or any violation of R.C. § 2925.02, 2925.03, 2925.04, 2925.041, 2925.05,
2925.06, 2925.11, 2925.12, 2925.13, 2925.22, 2925.23, 2925.24, 2925.31,
2925.32, 2925.36 or 2925.37.
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former law of any municipality, state
or of the United States, that is substantially equivalent to any section listed
in division (1) of this definition.
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former law of any municipality,
state or of the United States, of which planting, cultivating, harvesting,
processing, making, manufacturing, producing, shipping, transporting,
delivering, acquiring, possessing, storing, distributing, dispensing, selling,
inducing another to use, administering to another, using or otherwise dealing
with a controlled substance is an element.
      (4)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing or attempting to commit, any offense under division (1), (2) or (3)
of this definition.
   (u)   “Drug dependent person.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.011.
   (v)   “Drug of abuse.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.011.
   (w)   “Felony drug abuse offense.” Any drug abuse offense that would
constitute a felony under the laws of this state, any other state or the United
States.
   (x)   “Fentanyl-related compound.” Any of the following:
      (1)   Fentanyl;
      (2)   Alpha-methylfentanyl (N-[1-(alpha-methyl-beta-phenyl)ethyl-4-
piperidyl] propionanilide; 1-(1-methyl-2-phenylethyl)-4-(N-propanilido)
piperidine);
      (3)   Alpha-methylthiofentanyl (N-[1-methyl-2-(2-thienyl)ethyl-4-
piperidinyl]-N- phenylpropanamide);
      (4)   Beta-hydroxyfentanyl (N-[1-(2-hydroxy-2-phenethyl-4-piperidinyl]-N-
phenylpropanamide);
      (5)   Beta-hydroxy-3-methylfentanyl (other name: N-[1-(2-hydroxy-2-
phenethyl)-3- methyl-4-piperidinyl]-N-phenylpropanamide);
      (6)   3-methylfentanyl (N-[3-methyl-1-(2-phenylethyl)-4-piperidyl]-N-
phenylpropanamide);
      (7)   3-methylthiofentanyl (N-[3-methyl-1-[2-(thienyl)ethyl]-4-
piperidinyl]-N- phenylpropanamide);
      (8)   Para-fluorofentanyl (N-(4-fluorophenyl)-N-[1-(2-phenethyl)-4-
piperidinyl]propanamide;
      (9)   Thiofentanyl (N-phenyl-N-[1-(2-thienyl)ethyl-4-piperidinyl]-
propanamide;
      (10)   Alfentanil;
      (11)   Carfentanil;
      (12)   Remifentanil;
      (13)   Sufentanil;
      (14)   Acetyl-alpha-methylfentanyl (N-[1-(1-methyl-2-phenethyl)-4-
piperidinyl]-N- phenylacetamide); and
      (15)   Any compound that meets all of the following fentanyl
pharmacophore requirements to bind at the mu receptor, as identified by a
report from an established forensic laboratory, including acetylfentanyl,
furanylfentanyl, valerylfentanyl, butyrylfentanyl, isobutyrylfentanyl, 4-
methoxybutyrylfentanyl, para-fluorobutyrylfentanyl, acrylfentanyl, and ortho-
fluorofentanyl:
         A.   A chemical scaffold consisting of both of the following:
            1.   A five, six, or seven member ring structure containing a
nitrogen, whether or not further substituted;
            2.   An attached nitrogen to the ring, whether or not that nitrogen
is enclosed in a ring structure, including an attached aromatic ring or other
lipophilic group to that nitrogen.
         B.   A polar functional group attached to the chemical scaffold,
including but not limited to a hydroxyl, ketone, amide, or ester;
         C.   An alkyl or aryl substitution off the ring nitrogen of the
chemical scaffold; and
         D.   The compound has not been approved for medical use by the United
States food and drug administration.
   (y)   “Harmful intoxicant.” Does not include beer or intoxicating liquor,
but means any of the following:
      (1)   Any compound, mixture, preparation or substance the gas, fumes or
vapor of which when inhaled can induce intoxication, excitement, giddiness,
irrational behavior, depression, stupefaction, paralysis, unconsciousness,
asphyxiation or other harmful physiological effects, and includes but is not
limited to any of the following:
         A.   Any volatile organic solvent, plastic cement, model cement,
fingernail polish remover, lacquer thinner, cleaning fluid, gasoline or other
preparation containing a volatile organic solvent.
         B.   Any aerosol propellant.
         C.   Any fluorocarbon refrigerant.
         D.   Any anesthetic gas.
      (2)   Gamma Butyrolactone;
      (3)   1,4 Butanediol.
   (z)   "Hashish."
      (1)   A resin or a preparation of a resin to which both of the following
apply:
         A.   It is contained in or derived from any part of the plant of the
genus cannabis, whether in solid form or in a liquid concentrate, liquid
extract, or liquid distillate form.
         B.   It has a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration of more than
0.3%.
      (2)   The term does not include a hemp byproduct in the possession of a
licensed hemp processor under R.C. Chapter 928, provided that the hemp
byproduct is being produced, stored, and disposed of in accordance with rules
adopted under R.C. § 928.03.
   (aa)   “Hypodermic.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   (bb)   “Juvenile.” A person under 18 years of age.
   (cc)   “Licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs.” Has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   (dd)   “L.S.D.” Lysergic acid diethylamide.
   (ee)   “Major drug offender.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   (ff)   “Mandatory prison term.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   (gg)   “Manufacture.” To plant, cultivate, harvest, process, make, prepare
or otherwise engage in any part of the production of a drug, by propagation,
extraction, chemical synthesis or compounding, or any
combination of the same, and includes packaging, repackaging, labeling and
other activities incident to production.
   (hh)   “Manufacturer.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   (ii)   “Marihuana.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01, except that
it does not include hashish.
   (jj)   “Methamphetamine.” Methamphetamine, any salt, isomer or salt of an
isomer of methamphetamine, or any compound, mixture, preparation or substance
containing methamphetamine or any salt, isomer or salt of an isomer of
methamphetamine.
   (kk)   “Minor drug possession offense.” Either of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2925.11, as it existed prior to July 1, 1996,
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   A violation of R.C. § 2925.11, as it exists on and after July 1,
1996, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that is a misdemeanor
or a felony of the fifth degree.
   (ll)   “Official written order.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   (mm)   “Person.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   (nn)   “Pharmacist.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   (oo)   “Pharmacy.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   (pp)   “Possess” or “possession.” Having control over a thing or substance
but may not be inferred solely from mere access to the thing or substance
through ownership or occupation of the premises upon which the thing or
substance is found.
   (qq)   "Premises of a substance addiction services provider's facility."
Means the parcel of real property on which any substance addiction service
provider's facility is situated.
   (rr)   “Prescription.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   (ss)   “Presumption for a prison term” or “presumption that a prison term
shall be imposed.” A presumption as described in R.C. § 2929.13(D) that a
prison term is a necessary sanction for a felony in order to comply with the
purposes and principles of sentencing under R.C. § 2929.11.
   (tt)   “Professional license.” Any license, permit, certificate,
registration, qualification, admission, temporary license, temporary permit,
temporary certificate or temporary registration that is described in R.C. §
2925.01(W)(1) to (W)(37) and that qualifies a person as a professionally
licensed person.
   (uu)   “Professionally licensed person.” Any of the following:
      (1)   A person who has received a certificate or temporary certificate as
a certified public accountant or who has registered as a public accountant
under R.C. Chapter 4701 and who holds an Ohio permit issued under that chapter;
      (2)   A person who holds a certificate of qualification to practice
architecture issued or renewed and registered under R.C. Chapter 4703;
      (3)   A person who is registered as a landscape architect under R.C.
Chapter 4703 or who holds a permit as a landscape architect issued under that
chapter;
      (4)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4707;
      (5)   A person who has been issued a certificate of registration as a
registered barber under R.C. Chapter 4709;
      (6)   A person licensed and regulated to engage in the business of a debt
pooling company by a legislative authority, under authority of R.C. Chapter
4710;
      (7)   A person who has been issued a cosmetologist’s license, hair
designer’s license, manicurist’s license, esthetician’s license, natural hair
stylist’s license, advanced cosmetologist’s license, advanced hair designer’s
license, advanced manicurist’s license, advanced esthetician’s license,
advanced natural hair stylist’s license, cosmetology instructor’s license, hair
design instructor’s license, manicurist instructor’s license, esthetics
instructor’s license, natural hair style instructor’s license, independent
contractor’s license, or tanning facility permit under R.C. Chapter 4713;
      (8)   A person who has been issued a license to practice dentistry, a
general anesthesia permit, a conscious sedation permit, a limited resident’s
license, a limited teaching license, a dental hygienist’s license or a dental
hygienist’s teacher’s certificate under R.C. Chapter 4715;
      (9)   A person who has been issued an embalmer’s license, a funeral
director’s license, a funeral home license or a crematory license, or who has
been registered for an embalmer’s or funeral director’s apprenticeship under
R.C. Chapter 4717;
      (10)   A person who has been licensed as a registered nurse or practical
nurse, or who has been issued a certificate for the practice of nurse-midwifery
under R.C. Chapter 4723;
      (11)   A person who has been licensed to practice optometry or to engage
in optical dispensing under R.C. Chapter 4725;
      (12)   A person licensed to act as a pawnbroker under R.C. Chapter 4727;
      (13)   A person licensed to act as a precious metals dealer under R.C.
Chapter 4728;
      (14)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 as a pharmacist or
pharmacy intern or registered under that chapter as a registered pharmacy
technician, certified pharmacy technician, or pharmacy technician trainee;
      (15)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 as a manufacturer of
dangerous drugs, outsourcing facility, third-party logistics provider,
repackager of dangerous drugs, wholesale distributor of dangerous drugs, or
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs;
      (16)   A person who is authorized to practice as a physician assistant
under R.C. Chapter 4730;
      (17)   A person who has been issued a license to practice medicine and
surgery, osteopathic medicine and surgery, or podiatric medicine and surgery
under R.C. Chapter 4731 or has been issued a certificate to practice a limited
branch of medicine under that chapter;
      (18)   A person licensed as a psychologist or school psychologist under
R.C. Chapter 4732;
      (19)   A person registered to practice the profession of engineering or
surveying under R.C. Chapter 4733;
      (20)   A person who has been issued a license to practice chiropractic
under R.C. Chapter 4734;
      (21)   A person licensed to act as a real estate broker or real estate
salesperson under R.C. Chapter 4735;
      (22)   A person registered as a registered environmental health
specialist under R.C. Chapter 4736;
      (23)   A person licensed to operate or maintain a junkyard under R.C.
Chapter 4737;
      (24)   A person who has been issued a motor vehicle salvage dealer’s
license under R.C. Chapter 4738;
      (25)   A person who has been licensed to act as a steam engineer under
R.C. Chapter 4739;
      (26)   A person who has been issued a license or temporary permit to
practice veterinary medicine or any of its branches, or who is registered as a
graduate animal technician under R.C. Chapter 4741;
      (27)   A person who has been issued a hearing aid dealer’s or fitter’s
license or trainee permit under R.C. Chapter 4747;
      (28)   A person who has been issued a class A, class B or class C license
or who has been registered as an investigator or security guard employee under
R.C. Chapter 4749;
      (29)   A person licensed to practice as a nursing home administrator
under R.C. Chapter 4751;
      (30)   A person licensed to practice as a speech-language pathologist or
audiologist under R.C. Chapter 4753;
      (31)   A person issued a license as an occupational therapist or physical
therapist under R.C. Chapter 4755;
      (32)   A person who is licensed as a licensed professional clinical
counselor, licensed professional counselor, social worker, independent social
worker, independent marriage and family therapist, or marriage and family
therapist, or registered as a social work assistant under R.C. Chapter 4757;
      (33)   A person issued a license to practice dietetics under R.C. Chapter
4759;
      (34)   A person who has been issued a license or limited permit to
practice respiratory therapy under R.C. Chapter 4761;
      (35)   A person who has been issued a real estate appraiser certificate
under R.C. Chapter 4763;
      (36)   A person who has been issued a home inspector license under R.C.
Chapter 4764;
      (37)   A person who has been admitted to the bar by order of the Ohio
Supreme Court in compliance with its prescribed and published rules.
   (vv)   “Public premises.” Any hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall
or other place of public accommodation, business, amusement or resort.
   (ww)   “Sale.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   (xx)   “Sample drug.” A drug or pharmaceutical preparation that would be
hazardous to health or safety if used without the supervision of a licensed
health professional authorized to prescribe drugs, or a drug of abuse, and
that, at one time, had been placed in a container plainly marked as a sample by
a manufacturer.
   (yy)   “Schedule I”, “Schedule II”, “Schedule III”, “Schedule IV” or
“Schedule V.” Have the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   (zz)   “School.” Any school operated by a board of education, any community
school established under R.C. Chapter 3314, or any nonpublic school for which
the State Board of Education prescribes minimum standards under R.C. § 3301.07,
whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities or training provided
by the school is being conducted at the time a criminal offense is committed.
   (aaa)   “School building.” Any building in which any of the instruction,
extracurricular activities or training provided by a school is conducted,
whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities or training provided
by the school is being conducted in the school building at the time a criminal
offense is committed.
   (bbb)   “School premises.” Either of the following:
      (1)   The parcel of real property on which any school is situated,
whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or training
provided by the school is being conducted on the premises at the time a
criminal offense is committed.
      (2)   Any other parcel of real property that is owned or leased by a
board of education of a school, the governing authority of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314, or the governing body of a nonpublic
school for which the State Board of Education prescribes minimum standards
under R.C. § 3301.07 and on which some of the instruction, extracurricular
activities or training of the school is conducted, whether or not any
instruction, extracurricular activities, or training provided by the school is
being conducted on the parcel of real property at the time a criminal offense
is committed.
   (ccc)   “Standard Pharmaceutical Reference Manual.” The current edition,
with cumulative changes if any, of references that are approved by the State
Board of Pharmacy.
   (ddd)   "Substance addiction services provider." Means an agency,
association, corporation or other legal entity, individual, or program that
provides one or more of the following at a facility:
      (1)   Either alcohol addiction services, or drug addiction services, or
both such services that are certified by the Ohio Director of Mental Health and
Addiction Services under R.C. § 5119.36;
      (2)   Recovery supports that are related to either alcohol addiction
services, or drug addiction services, or both such services and paid for with
federal, state, or local funds administered by the Ohio Department of Mental
Health and Addiction Services or a board of alcohol, drug addiction, and mental
health services.
   (eee)   “Unit dose.” An amount or unit or a compound, mixture or preparation
containing a controlled substance that is separately identifiable and in a form
that indicates that it is the amount or unit by which the controlled substance
is separately administered to or taken by an individual.
   (fff)   “Wholesaler.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
(R.C. § 2925.01)
§ 624.02 TRAFFICKING IN CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES; GIFT OF MARIHUANA.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Sell or offer to sell a controlled substance or a controlled
substance analog;
      (2)   Prepare for shipment, ship, transport, deliver, prepare for
distribution or distribute a controlled substance or a controlled substance
analog, when the offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
controlled substance or a controlled substance analog, is intended for sale or
resale by the offender or another person.
   (b)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   Manufacturers, licensed health professionals authorized to
prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies and other persons whose
conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731
and 4741.
      (2)   If the offense involves an anabolic steroid, any person who is
conducting or participating in a research project involving the use of an
anabolic steroid if the project has been approved by the United States Food and
Drug Administration.
      (3)   Any person who sells, offers for sale, prescribes, dispenses or
administers for livestock or other nonhuman species an anabolic steroid that is
expressly intended for administration through implants to livestock or other
nonhuman species and approved for that purpose under the “Federal Food, Drug
and Cosmetic Act” (21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., as amended), and is sold, offered
for sale, prescribed, dispensed or administered for that purpose in accordance
with that Act.
   (c)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of the
following:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (c)(2) and (c)(3) of this
section, trafficking in controlled substances is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the offense
involves a gift of 20 grams or less of marihuana, trafficking in marihuana is a
minor misdemeanor upon a first offense and a misdemeanor of the third degree
upon a subsequent offense. If the offense involves a gift of 20 grams or less
of marihuana and if the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school or in
the vicinity of a juvenile, trafficking in marihuana is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is a combination of a fentanyl-related compound
and marihuana, one of the following applies:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(3)B. of this
section, the offender is guilty of trafficking in marihuana and shall be
punished under division (c)(2) of this section. The offender is not guilty of
trafficking in a fentanyl-related compound and shall not be charged with,
convicted of, or punished under R.C. § 2925.03(C)(9) for trafficking in a
fentanyl-related compound.
         B.   If the offender knows or has reason to know that the compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is the drug involved contains a
fentanyl-related compound, the offender is guilty of trafficking in a fentanyl-
related compound and shall be punished under R.C. § 2925.03(C)(9).
   (d)   As used in this section, “drug” includes any substance that is
represented to be a drug.
(R.C. § 2925.03(A) - (C), (I))
Statutory reference:
   Felony drug trafficking offenses, see R.C. § 2925.03(C)
§ 624.025 CULTIVATION OF MARIHUANA.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly cultivate marihuana.
   (b)   This section does not apply to any person listed in R.C. § 2925.03(B)
(1), (B)(2) or (B)(3), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, to
the extent and under the circumstances described in that division.
   (c)   Whoever commits a violation of division (a) of this section is guilty
of illegal cultivation of marihuana.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in the following divisions, illegal
cultivation of marihuana is a minor misdemeanor or, if the offense was
committed in the vicinity of a school or in the vicinity of a juvenile, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   If the amount of marihuana involved equals or exceeds 100 grams but
is less than 200 grams, illegal cultivation of marihuana is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree or, if the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school
or in the vicinity of a juvenile, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (3)   If the amount of marihuana involved equals or exceeds 200 grams,
illegal cultivation of marihuana is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (d)   Arrest or conviction for a minor misdemeanor violation of this section
does not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries about the person’s criminal
record, including any inquiries contained in any application for employment,
license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s
appearance as a witness.
(R.C. § 2925.04(A), (B), (C)(5), (G))
§ 624.03 DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSES.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly obtain, possess or use a controlled
substance or a controlled substance analog.
   (b)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         A.   Manufacturers, licensed health professionals authorized to
prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, and other persons whose
conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731
and 4741.
         B.   If the offense involves an anabolic steroid, any person who is
conducting or participating in a research project involving the use of an
anabolic steroid if the project has been approved by the United States Food and
Drug Administration.
         C.   Any person who sells, offers for sale, prescribes, dispenses or
administers for livestock or other nonhuman species an anabolic steroid that is
expressly intended for administration through implants to livestock or other
nonhuman species and approved for that purpose under the Federal Food, Drug and
Cosmetic Act, and is sold, offered for sale, prescribed, dispensed or
administered for that purpose in accordance with that Act.
         D.   Any person who obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs if the prescription was issued for a legitimate medical purpose and not
altered, forged, or obtained through deception or commission of a theft
offense. As used in this division (b)(1)D., “deception” and “theft offense”
have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      (2)   A.   As used in division (b)(2) of this section:
            1.   “Community addiction services provider.” Has the same meaning
as in R.C. § 5119.01.
            2.   “Community control sanction.” Has the same meanings as in R.C.
§ 2929.01
            3.   “Drug treatment program.” Has the same meanings as in R.C. §
2929.01.
            4.   “Health care facility.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2919.16.
            5.   “Minor drug possession offense.” A violation of this section
or R.C. § 2925.11 that is a misdemeanor or a felony of the fifth degree.
            6.   “Peace officer.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
            7.   “Post-release control sanction.” Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2967.28.
            8.   “Public agency.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2930.01.
            9.   “Qualified individual.” A person who is not on community
control or post-release control and is a person acting in good faith who seeks
or obtains medical assistance for another person who is experiencing a drug
overdose, a person who experiences a drug overdose and who seeks medical
assistance for that overdose, or a person who is the subject of another person
seeking or obtaining medical assistance for that overdose as described in
division (b)(2)B. of this section.
            10.   “Seek or obtain medical assistance.” Includes, but is not
limited to making a 9-1-1 call, contacting in person or by telephone call an
on-duty peace officer, or transporting or presenting a person to a health care
facility.
         B.   Subject to division (b)(2)F. of this section, a qualified
individual shall not be arrested, charged, prosecuted, convicted, or penalized
pursuant to this chapter for a minor drug possession offense if all of the
following apply:
            1.   The evidence of the obtaining, possession, or use of the
controlled substance or controlled substance analog that would be the basis of
the offense was obtained as a result of the qualified individual seeking the
medical assistance or experiencing an overdose and needing medical assistance.
            2.   Subject to division (b)(2)G. of this section, within 30 days
after seeking or obtaining the medical assistance, the qualified individual
seeks and obtains a screening and receives a referral for treatment from a
community addiction services provider or a properly credentialed addiction
treatment professional.
            3.   Subject to division (b)(2)G. of this section, the qualified
individual who obtains a screening and receives a referral for treatment under
division (b)(2)B.2. of this section, upon the request of any prosecuting
attorney, submits documentation to the prosecuting attorney that verifies that
the qualified individual satisfied the requirements of that division. The
documentation shall be limited to the date and time of the screening obtained
and referral received.
         C.   If a person is found to be in violation of any community control
sanction and if the violation is a result of either of the following, the court
shall first consider ordering the person’s participation or continued
participation in a drug treatment program or mitigating the penalty specified
in R.C. § 2929.13, 2929.15, or 2929.25, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, whichever is applicable, after which the court has the
discretion either to order the person’s participation or continued
participation in a drug treatment program or to impose the penalty with the
mitigating factor specified in any of those applicable sections:
            1.   Seeking or obtaining medical assistance in good faith for
another person who is experiencing a drug overdose;
            2.   Experiencing a drug overdose and seeking medical assistance
for that overdose or being the subject of another person seeking or obtaining
medical assistance for that overdose as described in division (b)(2)B. of this
section.
         D.   If a person is found to be in violation of any post-release
control sanction and if the violation is a result of either of the following,
the court or the parole board shall first consider ordering the person’s
participation or continued participation in a drug treatment program or
mitigating the penalty specified in R.C. § 2929.141 or 2967.28, whichever is
applicable, after which the court or the parole board has the discretion either
to order the person’s participation or continued participation in a drug
treatment program or to impose the penalty with the mitigating factor specified
in either of those applicable sections:
            1.   Seeking or obtaining medical assistance in good faith for
another person who is experiencing a drug overdose;
            2.   Experiencing a drug overdose and seeking medical assistance
for that emergency or being the subject of another person seeking or obtaining
medical assistance for that overdose as described in division (b)(2)B. of this
section.
         E.   Nothing in division (b)(2)B. of this section shall be construed
to do any of the following:
            1.   Limit the admissibility of any evidence in connection with the
investigation or prosecution of a crime with regards to a defendant who does
not qualify for the protections of division (b)(2)B. of this section or with
regards to any crime other than a minor drug possession offense committed by a
person who qualifies for protection pursuant to division (b)(2)B. of this
section for a minor drug possession offense;
            2.   Limit any seizure of evidence or contraband otherwise
permitted by law;
            3.   Limit or abridge the authority of a peace officer to detain or
take into custody a person in the course of an investigation or to effectuate
an arrest for any offense except as provided in that division;
            4.   Limit, modify, or remove any immunity from liability available
pursuant to law in effect prior to September 13, 2016 to any public agency or
to an employee of any public agency.
         F.   Division (b)(2)B. of this section does not apply to any person
who twice previously has been granted an immunity under division (b)(2)B. of
this section. No person shall be granted an immunity under division (b)(2)B. of
this section more than two times.
         G.   Nothing in this section shall compel any qualified individual to
disclose protected health information in a way that conflicts with the
requirements of the “Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of
1996,” 104 Pub. L. No. 191, 110 Stat. 2021, 42 U.S.C. §§ 1320d et seq., as
amended, and regulations promulgated by the United States Department of Health
and Human Services to implement the act or the requirements of 42 C.F.R. Part
2.
   (c)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of one of the
following:
      (1)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule I or Schedule II, with the
exception of marihuana or hashish, whoever violates division (a) of this
section is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V,
whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of possession of drugs.
The penalty for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(2)B. of this
section, possession of drugs is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the
offender previously has been convicted of a drug abuse offense, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         B.   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds the bulk
amount, possession of drugs is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the violation is marihuana or a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance containing marihuana other than hashish,
whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of possession of
marihuana. The penalty for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(3)B. or (c)(3)C. of
this section, possession of marihuana is a minor misdemeanor.
         B.   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds 100 grams
but is less than 200 grams, possession of marihuana is a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
         C.   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds 200 grams,
possession of marihuana is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (4)   If the drug involved in the violation is hashish or a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance containing hashish, whoever violates
division (a) of this section is guilty of possession of hashish. The penalty
for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(4)B. or (c)(4)C. of
this section, possession of hashish is a minor misdemeanor.
         B.   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds five grams
but is less than ten grams of hashish in a solid form or equals or exceeds one
gram but is less than two grams of hashish in a liquid concentrate, liquid
extract, or liquid distillate form, possession of hashish is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
         C.   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds ten grams of
hashish in a solid form or equals or exceeds two grams of hashish in a liquid
concentrate, liquid extract, or liquid distillate form, possession of hashish
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is a combination of a fentanyl-related compound
and marihuana, one of the following applies:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(5)B. of this
section, the offender is guilty of possession of marihuana and shall be
punished as provided in division (c)(3) of this section. Except as otherwise
provided in division (c)(5)B. of this section, the offender is not guilty of
possession of a fentanyl-related compound under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) and shall
not be charged with, convicted of, or punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) for
possession of a fentanyl-related compound.
         B.   If the offender knows or has reason to know that the compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is the drug involved contains a
fentanyl-related compound, the offender is guilty of possession of a fentanyl-
related compound and shall be punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11).
      (6)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is a combination of a fentanyl-related compound
and any Schedule III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V controlled substance that is
not a fentanyl-related compound, one of the following applies:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(6)B. of this
section, the offender is guilty of possession of drugs and shall be punished as
provided in division (c)(2) of this section. Except as otherwise provided in
division (c)(6)B. of this section, the offender is not guilty of possession of
a fentanyl-related compound under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) and shall not be
charged with, convicted of, or punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) for
possession of a fentanyl-related compound.
         B.   If the offender knows or has reason to know that the compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is the drug involved contains a
fentanyl-related compound, the offender is guilty of possession of a fentanyl-
related compound and shall be punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11).
   (d)   Arrest or conviction for a minor misdemeanor violation of this section
does not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries about the person’s criminal
record, including any inquiries contained in any application for employment,
license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s
appearance as a witness.
   (e)   (1)   In addition to any prison term or jail term authorized or
required by division (c) of this section and R.C. § 2929.13, 2929.14, 2929.22,
2929.24 and 2929.25, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and
in addition to any other sanction that is imposed for the offense under this
section or R.C. § 2929.11 through 2929.18, or R.C. § 2929.21 to 2929.28, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court that sentences an
offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of division (a) of
this section may suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or permit for not more than five years. However, if the offender pleaded guilty
to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another state or the United States
arising out of the same set of circumstances as the violation, the court shall
suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit for
not more than five years. If applicable, the court also shall do the following:
      (2)   If the offender is a professionally licensed person, in addition to
any other sanction imposed for a violation of this section, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
   (f)   (1)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
      (2)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (f) of this section, the
sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.11)
Statutory reference:
   Felony drug possession offenses, see R.C. § 2925.11(C)
§ 624.04 POSSESSION OF DRUG ABUSE INSTRUMENTS.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly make, obtain, possess or use any instrument,
article or thing the customary and primary purpose of which is for the
administration or use of a dangerous drug, other than marihuana, when the
instrument involved is a hypodermic or syringe, whether or not of crude or
extemporized manufacture or assembly, and the instrument, article or thing
involved has been used by the offender to unlawfully administer or use a
dangerous drug, other than marihuana, or to prepare a dangerous drug, other
than marihuana, for unlawful administration or use.
   (b)   This section does not apply to manufacturers, licensed health
professionals authorized to prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies
and other persons whose conduct was in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719,
4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731 and 4741.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possessing drug abuse
instruments, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a drug abuse offense, violation of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (d)   (1)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court may suspend for not more than five years
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit. However, if
the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another
state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the offender is a
professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction imposed for a
violation of this section, the court immediately shall comply with R.C. §
2925.38.
      (2)   A.   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         B.   Upon the filing of a motion under division (d)(2) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.12)
§ 624.05 PERMITTING DRUG ABUSE.
   (a)   No person who is the owner, operator or person in charge of a
locomotive, watercraft, aircraft or other vehicle, as defined in R.C. §
4501.01, shall knowingly permit the vehicle to be used for the commission of a
felony drug abuse offense.
   (b)   No person, who is the owner, lessee or occupant, or who has custody,
control or supervision of premises, or real estate, including vacant land,
shall knowingly permit his or her premises, or real estate, including vacant
land, to be used for the commission of a felony drug abuse offense by another
person.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of permitting drug abuse.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (c)(2) of this section, permitting
drug abuse is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Permitting drug abuse is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the felony drug abuse offense in question is a
violation of R.C. § 2925.02, 2925.03, or 2925.04, or if the felony drug abuse
offense in question is a violation of R.C. § 2925.041 and the offender had
actual knowledge, at the time the offender permitted the vehicle, premises, or
real estate to be used as described in division (a) or (b) of this section,
that the person who assembled or possessed the chemicals in question in
violation of R.C. § 2925.041 had assembled or possessed them with the intent to
manufacture a controlled substance in Schedule I or Schedule II in violation of
R.C. § 2925.04.
   (d)   Any premises or real estate that is permitted to be used in violation
of division (b) of this section constitutes a nuisance subject to abatement
pursuant to R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2925.13(A) - (C), (F))
§ 624.06 USE OR POSSESSION OF PARAPHERNALIA.
   (a)   As used in this section, “drug paraphernalia” means any equipment,
product or material of any kind that is used by the offender, intended by the
offender for use or designed for use in propagating, cultivating, growing,
harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing,
preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing,
concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing into the
human body, a controlled substance in violation of this chapter. “Drug
paraphernalia” includes but is not limited to any of the following equipment,
products or materials that are used by the offender, intended by the offender
for use, or designed by the offender for use, in any of the following manners:
      (1)   A kit for propagating, cultivating, growing or harvesting any
species of a plant that is a controlled substance or from which a controlled
substance can be derived.
      (2)   A kit for manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing,
processing or preparing a controlled substance.
      (3)   Any object, instrument or device for manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing or preparing methamphetamine.
      (4)   An isomerization device for increasing the potency of any species
of a plant that is a controlled substance.
      (5)   Testing equipment for identifying, or analyzing the strength,
effectiveness or purity of, a controlled substance.
      (6)   A scale or balance for weighing or measuring a controlled
substance.
      (7)   A diluent or adulterant, such as quinine hydrochloride, mannitol,
mannite, dextrose or lactose, for cutting a controlled substance.
      (8)   A separation gin or sifter for removing twigs and seeds from, or
otherwise cleaning or refining, marihuana.
      (9)   A blender, bowl, container, spoon or mixing device for compounding
a controlled substance.
      (10)   A capsule, balloon, envelope or container for packaging small
quantities of a controlled substance.
      (11)   A container or device for storing or concealing a controlled
substance.
      (12)   A hypodermic syringe, needle or instrument for parenterally
injecting a controlled substance into the human body.
      (13)   An object, instrument or device for ingesting, inhaling or
otherwise introducing into the human body, marihuana, cocaine, hashish or
hashish oil, such as a metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic or ceramic
pipe, with or without a screen, permanent screen, hashish head or punctured
metal bowl; water pipe; carburetion tube or device; smoking or carburetion
mask; roach clip or similar object used to hold burning material, such as a
marihuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be held in the
hand; miniature cocaine spoon, or cocaine vial; chamber pipe; carburetor pipe;
electric pipe; air driver pipe; chillum; bong; or ice pipe or chiller.
   (b)   In determining if any equipment, product or material is drug
paraphernalia, a court or law enforcement officer shall consider, in addition
to other relevant factors, the following:
      (1)   Any statement by the owner or by anyone in control of the
equipment, product or material, concerning its use.
      (2)   The proximity in time or space of the equipment, product or
material, or of the act relating to the equipment, product or material, to a
violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2925.
      (3)   The proximity of the equipment, product or material to any
controlled substance.
      (4)   The existence of any residue of a controlled substance on the
equipment, product or material.
      (5)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of the owner, or of
anyone in control, of the equipment, product or material, to deliver it to any
person whom he or she knows intends to use the equipment, product or material
to facilitate a violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter
2925. A finding that the owner or anyone in control of the equipment, product
or material is not guilty of a violation of any other provision of this chapter
or R.C. Chapter 2925 does not prevent a finding that the equipment, product or
material was intended or designed by the offender for use as drug
paraphernalia.
      (6)   Any oral or written instruction provided with the equipment,
product or material concerning its use.
      (7)   Any descriptive material accompanying the equipment, product or
material and explaining or depicting its use.
      (8)   National or local advertising concerning the use of the equipment,
product or material.
      (9)   The manner and circumstances in which the equipment, product or
material is displayed for sale.
      (10)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of the sales of the
equipment, product or material to the total sales of the business enterprise.
      (11)   The existence and scope of legitimate uses of the equipment,
product or material in the community.
      (12)   Expert testimony concerning the use of the equipment, product or
material.
   (c)   (1)   Subject to division (d)(2) of this section, no person shall
knowingly use, or possess with purpose to use, drug paraphernalia.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly sell, or possess or manufacture with
purpose to sell, drug paraphernalia, if he or she knows or reasonably should
know that the equipment, product or material will be used as drug
paraphernalia.
      (3)   No person shall place an advertisement in any newspaper, magazine,
handbill or other publication that is published and printed and circulates
primarily within this state, if he or she knows that the purpose of the
advertisement is to promote the illegal sale in this municipality or in this
state of the equipment, product or material that the offender intended or
designed for use as drug paraphernalia.
   (d)   (1)   This section does not apply to manufacturers, licensed health
professionals authorized to prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies
and other persons whose conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715,
4723, 4729, 4730, 4731 and 4741. This section shall not be construed to
prohibit the possession or use of a hypodermic as authorized by R.C. §
3719.172.
      (2)   Division (c)(1) of this section does not apply to a person’s use,
or possession with purpose to use, any drug paraphernalia that is equipment, a
product, or material of any kind that is used by the person, intended by the
person for use, or designed for use in storing, containing, concealing,
injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the human body
marihuana.
   (e)   Notwithstanding R.C. Chapter 2981, any drug paraphernalia that was
used, possessed, sold or manufactured in violation of this section shall be
seized, after a conviction for that violation, shall be forfeited, and upon
forfeiture shall be disposed of pursuant to R.C. § 2981.12(B).
   (f)   (1)   Whoever violates division (c)(1) of this section is guilty of
illegal use or possession of drug paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (f)(3) of this section, whoever
violates division (c)(2) of this section is guilty of dealing in drug
paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (c)(2) of this section by selling drug
paraphernalia to a juvenile is guilty of selling drug paraphernalia to
juveniles, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (c)(3) of this section is guilty of
illegal advertising of drug paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (g)   (1)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court may suspend for not more than five years
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit. However, if
the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another
state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the offender is a
professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction imposed for a
violation of this section, the court immediately shall comply with R.C. §
2925.38.
      (2)   A.   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         B.   Upon the filing of a motion under division (g)(2) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.14)
   (h)   Illegal use or possession of marihuana drug paraphernalia.
      (1)   As used in this division (h), “drug paraphernalia” has the same
meaning as in division (a) of this section.
      (2)   In determining if any equipment, product, or material is drug
paraphernalia, a court or law enforcement officer shall consider, in addition
to other relevant factors, all factors identified in division (b) of this
section.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly use, or possess with purpose to use, any
drug paraphernalia that is equipment, a product, or material of any kind that
is used by the person, intended by the person for use, or designed for use in
storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise
introducing into the human body marihuana.
      (4)   This division (h) does not apply to any person identified in
division (d)(1) of this section, and it shall not be construed to prohibit the
possession or use of a hypodermic as authorized by R.C. § 3719.172.
      (5)   Division (e) of this section applies with respect to any drug
paraphernalia that was used or possessed in violation of this section.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (h)(3) of this section is guilty of
illegal use or possession of marihuana drug paraphernalia, a minor misdemeanor.
      (7)   A.   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for
a violation division (h) of this section, the court may suspend for not more
than five years the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit. However, if the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a
violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance
or the law of another state or the United States arising out of the same set of
circumstances as the violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the
offender is a professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction
imposed for a violation of division (h) of this section, the court immediately
shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
         B.   1.   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under division (h)
of this section prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the
sentencing court requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an
offender who pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another
state or the United States that arose out of the same set of circumstances as
the violation for which the offender’s license or permit was suspended under
division (h) of this section shall not file such a motion.
            2.   Upon the filing of a motion under division (h)(7)B. of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.141)
§ 624.07 ABUSING HARMFUL INTOXICANTS.
   (a)   Except for lawful research, clinical, medical, dental or veterinary
purposes, no person, with purpose to induce intoxication or similar
physiological effects, shall obtain, possess or use a harmful intoxicant.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of abusing harmful
intoxicants, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a drug abuse offense, abusing harmful intoxicants is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (c)   (1)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court may suspend for not more than five years
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit. However, if
the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another
state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the offender is a
professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction imposed for a
violation of this section, the court immediately shall comply with R.C. §
2925.38.
      (2)   A.   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to the September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         B.   Upon the filing of a motion under division (c)(2) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.31)
§ 624.073 IMPROPERLY DISPENSING OR DISTRIBUTING NITROUS OXIDE.
   (a)   No person who dispenses or distributes nitrous oxide in cartridges
shall fail to comply with either of the following:
      (1)   The record-keeping requirements established under division (c) of
this section.
      (2)   The labeling and transaction identification requirements
established under division (d) of this section.
   (b)   Whoever violates division (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section is guilty
of improperly dispensing or distributing nitrous oxide, a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (c)   Beginning July 1, 2001, a person who dispenses or distributes nitrous
oxide shall record each transaction involving the dispensing or distribution of
the nitrous oxide on a separate card. The person shall require the purchaser to
sign the card and provide a complete residence address. The person dispensing
or distributing the nitrous oxide shall sign and date the card. The person
shall retain the card recording a transaction for one year from the date of the
transaction. The person shall maintain the cards at the person’s business
address and make them available during normal business hours for inspection and
copying by officers or employees of the State Board of Pharmacy or of other law
enforcement agencies that are authorized to investigate violations of this
code, R.C. Chapter 2925, Chapter 3719 or Chapter 4729, or federal drug abuse
control laws. The cards used to record each transaction shall inform the
purchaser of the following:
      (1)   That nitrous oxide cartridges are to be used only for purposes of
preparing food;
      (2)   That inhalation of nitrous oxide can have dangerous health effects;
and
      (3)   That it is a violation of state law to distribute or dispense
cartridges of nitrous oxide to any person under age 21, punishable as a felony
of the fifth degree.
   (d)   (1)   Each cartridge of nitrous oxide dispensed or distributed in this
municipality shall bear the following printed warning: “Nitrous oxide
cartridges are to be used only for purposes of preparing food. Nitrous oxide
cartridges may not be sold to persons under age 21. Do not inhale contents.
Misuse can be dangerous to your health.”
      (2)   Each time a person dispenses or distributes one or more cartridges
of nitrous oxide, the person shall mark the packaging containing the cartridges
with a label or other device that identifies the person who dispensed or
distributed the nitrous oxide and the person’s business address.
(R.C. § 2925.32(B)(4), (D)(2), (F), (G))
Statutory reference:
   Trafficking in harmful intoxicants, felony offenses, see R.C. § 2925.32
§ 624.076 POSSESSING NITROUS OXIDE IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (a)   As used in this section, “motor vehicle,” “street” and “highway” have
the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   (b)   Unless authorized by these Codified Ordinances or by state law, no
person shall possess an open cartridge of nitrous oxide in either of the
following circumstances:
      (1)   While operating or being a passenger in or on a motor vehicle on a
street, highway or other public or private property open to the public for
purposes of vehicular traffic or parking.
      (2)   While being in or on a stationary motor vehicle on a street,
highway or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular traffic or parking.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possessing nitrous oxide in
a motor vehicle, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (d)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for
possessing nitrous oxide in a motor vehicle, the court may suspend for not more
than five years the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit.
(R.C. § 2925.33)
§ 624.08 ILLEGAL DISPENSING OF DRUG SAMPLES.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly furnish a sample drug to another person.
   (b)   Division (a) of this section does not apply to manufacturers,
wholesalers, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, licensed health professionals
authorized to prescribe drugs, and other persons whose conduct is in accordance
with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4725, 4729, 4730, 4731 and 4741.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal dispensing of
drug samples.
      (2)   If the drug involved in the offense is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule I or Schedule II, with the
exception of marihuana, illegal dispensing of drug samples is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the offense is a dangerous drug or a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance included in Schedule III, Schedule
IV or Schedule V, or is marihuana, the penalty for the offense shall be
determined as follows:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in the following division, illegal
dispensing of drug samples is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
         B.   If the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school or in
the vicinity of a juvenile, illegal dispensing of drug samples is a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2925.36(A) - (C))
Statutory reference:
   Felony offenses, see R.C. § 2925.36(C)(2)
§ 624.09 COUNTERFEIT CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly possess any counterfeit controlled
substance.
   (b)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section shall be guilty of
possession of counterfeit controlled substances, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 2925.37(A), (G))
Statutory reference:
   Trafficking, other felony counterfeit controlled substance offenses, see
R.C. § 2925.37(H) - (M)
§ 624.10 CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE OR PRESCRIPTION LABELS.
   (a)   Whenever a manufacturer sells a controlled substance, and whenever a
wholesaler, repackager, or outsourcing facility sells a controlled substance in
a package the wholesaler, repackager, or outsourcing facility has prepared, the
manufacturer or the wholesaler, repackager, or outsourcing facility, as the
case may be, shall securely affix to each package in which the controlled
substance is contained a label showing in legible English the name and address
of the vendor and the quantity, kind, and form of controlled substance
contained therein. No person, except a pharmacist for the purpose of dispensing
a controlled substance upon a prescription shall alter, deface, or remove any
label so affixed. As used in this division, “repackager” and “outsourcing
facility” have the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   (b)   No person shall alter, deface or remove any label affixed pursuant to
R.C. § 3719.08 as long as any of the original contents remain.
(R.C. § 3719.08(A), (E))
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this
section, or R.C. § 3719.07 or 3719.08, or a drug abuse offense, a violation of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the
violation involves the sale, offer to sell, or possession of a Schedule I or
Schedule II controlled substance, with the exception of marihuana, and if the
offender, as a result of the violation, is a major drug offender, then R.C. §
3719.99(D) applies.
(R.C. § 3719.99(C))
§ 624.11 POSSESSION, SALE AND DISPOSAL OF HYPODERMICS.
   (a)   Possession of a hypodermic is authorized for the following:
      (1)   A manufacturer or distributor of, or dealer in hypodermics, or
medication packaged in hypodermics, and any authorized agent of employee of
that manufacturer, distributor or dealer, in the regular course of business;
      (2)   A terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, in the regular course of
business;
      (3)   A person authorized to administer injections, in the regular course
of the person’s profession or employment;
      (4)   A person, when the hypodermic in his or her possession was lawfully
obtained and is kept and used for the purpose of self-administration of insulin
or other drug prescribed for the treatment of disease by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs;
      (5)   A person whose use of a hypodermic is for legal research, clinical,
educational or medicinal purposes;
      (6)   A farmer, for the lawful administration of a drug to an animal;
      (7)   A person whose use of a hypodermic is for lawful professional,
mechanical, trade or craft purposes.
   (b)   No manufacturer or distributor of, or dealer in, hypodermics or
medication packaged in hypodermics, or their authorized agents or employees,
and no terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall display any hypodermic for
sale. No person authorized to possess a hypodermic pursuant to division (a) of
this section shall negligently fail to take reasonable precautions to prevent
any hypodermic in the person’s possession from theft or acquisition by any
unauthorized person.
(R.C. § 3719.172(A), (B))
   (c)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of a violation of division (b) of this section, R.C. § 3719.05, 3719.06,
3719.13, 3719.172(B) or 3719.31, or a drug abuse offense, a violation of
division (b) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 3719.99(E))
Statutory reference:
   Felony offenses, see R.C. § 3719.172(C), (D)
§ 624.12 EVIDENCE.
   (a)   (1)   In any criminal prosecution for a violation of this chapter or
R.C. Chapter 2925 or Chapter 3719, a laboratory report from the Bureau of
Criminal Identification and Investigation or a laboratory operated by another
law enforcement agency, or a laboratory established by or under the authority
of an institution of higher education that has its main campus in this state
and that is accredited by the Association of American Universities or the North
Central Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools, primarily for the
purpose of providing scientific service to law enforcement agencies, and signed
by the person performing the analysis, stating that the substance that is the
basis of the alleged offense has been weighed and analyzed and stating the
findings as to the content, weight and identity of the substance and that it
contains any amount of a controlled substance and the number and description of
unit dosages, is prima facie evidence of the content, identity and weight or
the existence and number of unit dosages of the substance. In any criminal
prosecution for a violation of R.C. § 2925.041 or a violation of this chapter,
R.C. Chapter 2925 or R.C. Chapter 3719 that is based on the possession of
chemicals sufficient to produce a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance
included in Schedule I, Schedule II, Schedule III, Schedule IV or Schedule V, a
laboratory report from the Bureau or from any laboratory that is operated or
established as described in this division that is signed by the person
performing the analysis, stating that the substances that are the basis of the
alleged offense have been weighed and analyzed and stating the findings as to
the content, weight, and identity of each of the substances, is prima facie
evidence of the content, identity and weight of the substances.
      (2)   Attached to that report shall be a copy of a notarized statement by
the signer of the report giving the name of the signer and stating that the
signer is an employee of the laboratory issuing the report and that performing
the analysis is a part of the signer’s regular duties, and giving an outline of
the signer’s education, training and experience for performing an analysis of
materials included under this section. The signer shall attest that
scientifically accepted tests were performed with due caution, and that the
evidence was handled in accordance with established and accepted procedures
while in the custody of the laboratory.
   (b)   The prosecuting attorney shall serve a copy of the report on the
attorney of record for the accused, or on the accused if the accused has no
attorney, prior to any proceeding in which the report is to be used against the
accused other than at a preliminary hearing or grand jury proceeding where the
report may be used without having been previously served upon the accused.
   (c)   The report shall not be prima facie evidence of the contents, identity
and weight or the existence and number of unit dosages of the substance if the
accused or the accused’s attorney demands the testimony of the person signing
the report, by serving the demand upon the prosecuting attorney, within seven
days from the accused or the accused’s attorney’s receipt of the report. The
time may be extended by a trial judge in the interests of justice.
   (d)   Any report issued for use under this section shall contain notice of
the right of the accused to demand, and the manner in which the accused shall
demand, the testimony of the person signing the report.
   (e)   Any person who is accused of a violation of this chapter or R.C.
Chapter 2925 or Chapter 3719 is entitled, upon written request made to the
prosecuting attorney, to have a portion of the substance that is, or of each of
the substances that are, the basis of the alleged violation preserved for the
benefit of independent analysis performed by a laboratory analyst employed by
the accused person, or, if the accused is indigent, by a qualified laboratory
analyst appointed by the court. The portion shall be a representative sample of
the entire substance that is, or of each of the substances that are, the basis
of the alleged violation and shall be of sufficient size, in the opinion of the
court, to permit the accused’s analyst to make a thorough scientific analysis
concerning the identity of the substance or substances. The prosecuting
attorney shall provide the accused’s analyst with the sample portion at least
14 days prior to trial, unless the trial is to be held in a court not of record
or unless the accused person is charged with a minor misdemeanor, in which case
the prosecuting attorney shall provide the accused’s analyst with the sample
portion at least three days prior to trial. If the prosecuting attorney
determines that such a sample portion cannot be preserved and given to the
accused’s analyst, the prosecuting attorney shall so inform the accused person,
or the accused’s attorney. In such a circumstance, the accused person is
entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting attorney, to have the
accused’s privately employed or court appointed analyst present at an analysis
of the substance that is, or the substances that are, the basis of the alleged
violation, and, upon further written request, to receive copies of all recorded
scientific data that result from the analysis and that can be used by an
analyst in arriving at conclusions, findings or opinions concerning the
identity of the substance or substances subject to the analysis.
   (f)   In addition to the rights provided under division (e) of this section,
any person who is accused of a violation of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2925
or Chapter 3719 that involves a bulk amount of a controlled substance, or any
multiple thereof, or who is accused of a violation of R.C. § 2925.11 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, other than a minor misdemeanor
violation, that involves marihuana, is entitled, upon written request made to
the prosecuting attorney, to have a laboratory analyst of the accused’s choice,
or, if the accused is indigent, a qualified laboratory analyst appointed by the
court, present at a measurement or weighing of the substance that is the basis
of the alleged violation. Also, the accused person is entitled, upon further
written request, to receive copies of all recorded scientific data that result
from the measurement or weighing and that can be used by an analyst in arriving
at conclusions, findings, or opinions concerning the weight, volume or number
of unit doses of the substance subject to the measurement or weighing.
(R.C. § 2925.51)
   (g)   In addition to the financial sanctions authorized or required under
R.C. § 2929.18 and 2929.28 and to any costs otherwise authorized or required
under any provision of law, the court imposing sentence upon an offender who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a drug abuse offense may order the offender to
pay to the state, municipal or county law enforcement agencies that handled the
investigation and prosecution all of the costs that the state, municipal
corporation or county reasonably incurred in having tests performed under this
section or R.C. § 2925.51 or in any other manner on any substance that was the
basis of, or involved in, the offense to determine whether the substance
contained any amount of a controlled substance if the results of the tests
indicate that the substance tested contained any controlled substance. No court
shall order an offender under this section to pay the costs of tests performed
on a substance if the results of the tests do not indicate that the substance
tested contained any controlled substance. The court shall hold a hearing to
determine the amount of costs to be imposed under this section. The court may
hold the hearing as part of the sentencing hearing for the offender.
(R.C. § 2925.511)
§ 624.13 DOUBLE JEOPARDY.
   No person shall be prosecuted for a violation of this chapter if the person
has been acquitted or convicted under the federal drug abuse control laws of
the same act or omission which, it is alleged, constitutes a violation of this
chapter.
(R.C. § 2925.50, 3719.19)
§ 624.14 CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE SCHEDULES.
   Controlled Substance Schedules I, II, III, IV and V, as established in R.C.
§ 3719.41 and amended by R.C. § 3719.43 and 3719.44, are hereby adopted by
reference, and shall be treated as if set forth in full herein.
§ 624.15 SALE OF PSEUDOEPHEDRINE.
   (a)   Unlawful purchases.
      (1)   As used in divisions (a), (b), (c) and (d) of this section:
         A.   “Consumer product.” Any food or drink that is consumed or used by
humans and any drug, including a drug that may be provided legally only
pursuant to a prescription, that is intended to be consumed or used by humans.
         B.   “Ephedrine.” Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of ephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or salts
of optical isomers.
         C.   “Ephedrine product.” A consumer product that contains ephedrine.
         D.   “Pseudoephedrine.” Any material, compound, mixture, or
preparation that contains any quantity of pseudoephedrine, any of its salts,
optical isomers, or salts of optical isomers.
         E.   “Pseudoephedrine product.” A consumer product that contains
pseudoephedrine.
         F.   “Retailer.” A place of business that offers consumer products for
sale to the general public.
         G.   “Single-ingredient preparation.” A compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that contains a single active ingredient.
         H.   “Terminal distributor of dangerous drugs.” Has the same meaning
as in R.C. § 4729.01.
      (2)   A.   1.   No individual shall knowingly purchase, receive, or
otherwise acquire an amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
that is greater than either of the following unless the pseudoephedrine product
or ephedrine product is dispensed by a pharmacist pursuant to a valid
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs and the conduct of the pharmacist and the licensed health professional
authorized to prescribe drugs is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715,
4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741:
               a.   Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single day;
               b.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
            2.   The limits specified in divisions (a)(2)A.1.a. and (a)
(2)A.1.b. of this section apply to the total amount of base pseudoephedrine or
base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product,
respectively. The limits do not apply to the product’s overall weight.
         B.   It is not a violation of division (b)(1) of this section for an
individual to receive or accept more than an amount of pseudoephedrine product
or ephedrine product specified in division (a)(2)A.1.a. or (a)(2)A.1.b. of this
section if the individual is an employee of a retailer or terminal distributor
of dangerous drugs, and the employee receives or accepts from the retailer or
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs the pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product in a sealed container in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the
product.
      (3)   A.   No individual under 18 years of age shall knowingly purchase,
receive, or otherwise acquire a pseudoephedrine product, or ephedrine product
unless the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product is dispensed by a
pharmacist pursuant to a valid prescription issued by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs and the conduct of the pharmacist
and the licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs is in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741.
         B.   Division (a)(3)A. of this section does not apply to an individual
under 18 years of age who purchases, receives, or otherwise acquires a
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product from any of the following:
            1.   A licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs
or pharmacist who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides the pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to that individual and whose conduct is in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741;
            2.   A parent or guardian of that individual who provides the
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            3.   A person, as authorized by that individual’s parent or
guardian, who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides the pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            4.   A retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs who
provides the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to that individual if
the individual is an employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of
dangerous drugs and the individual receives or accepts from the retailer or
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs the pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product in a sealed container in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the
product.
      (4)   No individual under 18 years of age shall knowingly show or give
false information concerning the individual’s name, age, or other
identification for the purpose of purchasing, receiving, or otherwise acquiring
a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product.
      (5)   No individual shall knowingly fail to comply with the requirements
of R.C. § 3715.051(B).
      (6)   Whoever violates division (a)(2)A. of this section is guilty of
unlawful purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (a)(3)A. of this section is guilty of
underage purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if it could be
committed by an adult.
      (8)   Whoever violates division (a)(4) of this section is guilty of using
false information to purchase a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the first degree if it could be
committed by an adult.
      (9)   Whoever violates division (a)(5) of this section is guilty of
improper purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2925.55)
   (b)   Unlawful retail sales.
      (1)   A.   1.   Except as provided in division (b)(1)B. of this section,
no retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs or an employee of a
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall knowingly sell, offer
to sell, hold for sale, deliver, or otherwise provide to any individual an
amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product that is greater than
either of the following:
               a.   Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single day;
               b.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
            2.   The maximum amounts specified in divisions (b)(1)A.1.a. and
(b)(1)A.1.b. of this section apply to the total amount of base pseudoephedrine
or base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product,
respectively. The maximum amounts do not apply to the product’s overall weight.
         B.   1.   Division (b)(1)A. of this section does not apply to any
quantity of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product dispensed by a
pharmacist pursuant to a valid prescription issued by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs if the conduct of the pharmacist and
the licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs is in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741.
            2.   It is not a violation of division (b)(1)A. of this section for
a retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, or employee of either to
provide to an individual more than an amount of pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product specified in division (b)(1)A.1.a. or (b)(1)A.1.b. of this
section under either of the following circumstances:
               a.   The individual is an employee of the retailer or terminal
distributor of dangerous drugs, and the employee receives or accepts from the
retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, or employee the
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product in a sealed container in
connection with manufacturing, warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging,
loading, or unloading of the product;
               b.   A stop-sale alert is generated after the submission of
information to the national precursor log exchange under the conditions
described in R.C. § 3715.052(A)(2).
      (2)   A.   Except as provided in division (b)(2)B. of this section, no
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs or an employee of a
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall sell, offer to sell,
hold for sale, deliver, or otherwise provide a pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product to an individual who is under 18 years of age.
         B.   Division (b)(2)A. of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
            1.   A licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs
or pharmacist who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides a pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to an individual under 18 years of age and whose
conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731,
or 4741;
            2.   A parent or guardian of an individual under 18 years of age
who provides a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            3.   A person who, as authorized by the individual’s parent or
guardian, dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides a pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product to an individual under 18 years of age;
            4.   The provision by a retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous
drugs, or employee of either of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
in a sealed container to an employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of
dangerous drugs who is under 18 years of age in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the
product.
      (3)   No retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall fail
to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 3715.051(A) or 3715.052(A)(2).
      (4)   No retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall fail
to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 3715.052(A)(1).
      (5)   Whoever violates division (b)(1)A. of this section is guilty of
unlawfully selling a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (b)(2)A. of this section is guilty of
unlawfully selling a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to a minor, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (b)(3) of this section is guilty of
improper sale of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a misdemeanor
of the second degree.
      (8)   Whoever violates division (b)(4) of this section is guilty of
failing to submit information to the national precursor log exchange, a
misdemeanor for which the offender shall be fined not more than $1,000 per
violation.
(R.C. § 2925.56)
   (c)   Transaction scans.
      (1)   For the purpose of this division and division (d) of this section,
the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
         A.   “Card holder.” Any person who presents a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card to a seller, or an agent or employee
of a seller, to purchase or receive any pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product from the seller, agent or employee.
         B.   Identification card” has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2927.021.
         C.   “Seller.” A retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs.
         D.   “Transaction scan.” The process by which a seller or an agent or
employee of a seller checks by means of a transaction scan device the validity
of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification card that is
presented as a condition for purchasing or receiving any pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product.
         E.   “Transaction scan device.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2927.021.
      (2)   A.   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may perform a
transaction scan by means of a transaction scan device to check the validity of
a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a
card holder as a condition for selling, giving away or otherwise distributing
to the card holder a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product.
         B.   If the information deciphered by the transaction scan performed
under division (c)(2)A. of this section fails to match the information printed
on the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by the card holder, or if the transaction scan indicates that the information
so printed is false or fraudulent, neither the seller nor any agent or employee
of the seller shall sell, give away or otherwise distribute any pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to the card holder.
         C.   Division (c)(2)A. of this section does not preclude a seller or
an agent or employee of a seller as a condition for selling, giving away or
otherwise distributing a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the
person presenting the document from using a transaction scan device to check
the validity of a document other than a driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or an identification card if the document includes a bar code or magnetic strip
that may be scanned by the device.
      (3)   Rules adopted by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles under R.C. §
4301.61(C) apply to the use of transaction scan devices for purposes of this
division (c) and division (d) of this section.
      (4)   A.   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall
electronically or mechanically record or maintain any information derived from
a transaction scan, except the following:
            1.   The name, address, and date of birth of the person listed on
the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by
a card holder;
            2.   The expiration date, identification number, and issuing agency
of the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by a card holder.
         B.   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use the
information that is derived from a transaction scan or that is permitted to be
recorded and maintained under division (c)(4)A. of this section except for
purposes of division (d) of this section or R.C. § 2925.58 or 3715.052(A)(1).
         C.   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use a
transaction scan device for a purpose other than the purpose specified in
division (c)(2)A. of this section.
         D.   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall sell or
otherwise disseminate the information derived from a transaction scan to any
third party, including but not limited to selling or otherwise disseminating
that information for any marketing, advertising or promotional activities, but
a seller or agent or employee of a seller may release that information pursuant
to a court order or as specifically authorized by division (d) of this section
or any other section of the Ohio Revised Code.
      (5)   Nothing in this division (c) or division (d) of this section
relieves a seller or an agent or employee of a seller of any responsibility to
comply with any other applicable state or federal laws or rules governing the
sale, giving away or other distribution of pseudoephedrine products or
ephedrine products.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (c)(2)B. or (c)(4) of this section is
guilty of engaging in an illegal pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
transaction scan, and the court may impose upon the offender a civil penalty of
up to $1,000 for each violation. The Clerk of the Court shall pay each
collected civil penalty to the County Treasurer for deposit into the County
Treasury.
(R.C. § 2925.57)
   (d)   Affirmative defenses.
      (1)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may not be found
guilty of a charge of a violation of division (b) of this section in which the
age of the purchaser or other recipient of a pseudoephedrine product is an
element of the alleged violation if the seller, agent or employee raises and
proves as an affirmative defense that all of the following occurred:
         A.   A card holder attempting to purchase or receive a pseudoephedrine
product presented a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an
identification card.
         B.   A transaction scan of the driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or identification card that the card holder presented indicated that the
license or card was valid.
         C.   The pseudoephedrine product was sold, given away or otherwise
distributed to the card holder in reasonable reliance upon the identification
presented and the completed transaction scan.
      (2)   In determining whether a seller or an agent or employee of a seller
has proven the affirmative defense provided by division (d)(1) of this section,
the trier of fact in the action for the alleged violation of division (b) of
this section shall consider any written policy that the seller has adopted and
implemented and that is intended to prevent violations of division (b) of this
section. For purposes of division (d)(1)C. of this section, the trier of fact
shall consider that reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and
the completed transaction scan may require a seller or an agent or employee of
a seller to exercise reasonable diligence to determine, and that the use of a
transaction scan device does not excuse a seller or an agent or employee of a
seller from exercising reasonable diligence to determine, the following:
         A.   Whether a person to whom the seller or agent or employee of a
seller sells, gives away or otherwise distributes a pseudoephedrine product is
18 years of age or older;
         B.   Whether the description and picture appearing on the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a card holder
is that of the card holder.
      (3)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense provided by
division (d)(1) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a
Deputy Registrar who issued an identification card under R.C. § 4507.50 through
4507.52 shall be permitted to submit certified copies of the records of that
issuance in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of or contractors with the
Bureau of Motor Vehicles in the action.
(R.C. § 2925.58)
   (e)   Retailer’s duties.
      (1)   As used in divisions (e) and (f) of this section:
         A.   “Consumer product.” Any food or drink that is consumed or used by
humans and any drug, including a drug that may be provided legally only
pursuant to a prescription, that is intended to be consumed or used by humans.
         B.   “Drug.” Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         C.   “Ephedrine.” Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of ephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or salts
of optical isomers.
         D.   “Ephedrine product.” A consumer product that contains ephedrine.
         E.   “Law enforcement official.” An officer or employee of any agency
or authority of the United States, a state, a territory, a political
subdivision of a state or territory, or an Indian tribe, who is empowered by
the law to investigate or conduct an official inquiry into a potential
violation of law or prosecute or otherwise conduct a criminal, civil, or
administrative proceeding arising from an alleged violation of law.
         F.   “Licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs.” Has
the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         G.   “National Precursor Log Exchange” or “Exchange.” The electronic
system for tracking sales of pseudoephedrine products and ephedrine products on
a national basis that is administered by the National Association of Drug
Diversion Investigators or a successor organization.
         H.   “Pharmacist.” A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 to engage
in the practice of pharmacy.
         I.   “Pharmacy.” Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         J.   “Prescriber.” Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         K.   “Prescription.” Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         L.   “Proof of age.” A driver’s license, a commercial driver’s
license, a military identification card, a passport, or an identification card
issued under R.C. § 4507.50 to 4507.52 that shows a person is 18 years of age
or older.
         M.   “Pseudoephedrine.” Any material, compound, mixture, or
preparation that contains any quantity of pseudoephedrine, any of its salts,
optical isomers, or salts of optical isomers.
         N.   “Pseudoephedrine product.” A consumer product that contains
pseudoephedrine.
         O.   “Retailer.” A place of business that offers consumer products for
sale to the general public.
         P.   “Single-ingredient preparation.” A compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that contains a single active ingredient.
         Q.   “Stop-sale alert.” A notification sent from the national
precursor log exchange to a retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs
indicating that the completion of a sale of a pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product would result in a violation of R.C. § 2925.56(A)(1) or
federal law.
         R.   “Terminal distributor of dangerous drugs.” Has the same meanings
as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         S.   “Wholesaler.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
      (2)   A retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs that sells,
offers to sell, holds for sale, delivers, or otherwise provides a
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the public shall do all of the
following:
         A.   Segregate pseudoephedrine products or ephedrine products from
other merchandise so that no member of the public may procure or purchase such
products without the direct assistance of a pharmacist or other authorized
employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs;
         B.   With regard to each time a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product is sold or otherwise provided without a valid prescription:
            1.   Determine, by examination of a valid proof of age, that the
purchaser or recipient is at least 18 years of age;
            2.   a.   Using any information available, including information
from the national precursor log exchange if the information is accessible, make
a reasonable attempt to ensure that no individual purchases or receives an
amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product that is greater than
either of the following:
                  i.   Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single
day;
                  ii.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
               b.   The maximum amounts specified in divisions (e)(2)B.2.a.i.
and (e)(2)B.2.a.ii. of this section apply to the total amount of base
pseudoephedrine or base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product, respectively. The maximum amounts do not apply to the product’s
overall weight.
         C.   Maintain a log book of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product purchases, in accordance with R.C. § 3715.051;
         D.   If required to comply with section R.C. § 3715.052, submit the
information specified in divisions (A)(1)(a) to (A)(1)(d) of that section to
the national precursor log exchange.
      (3)   Prescriptions, orders, and records maintained pursuant to this
section and stocks of pseudoephedrine products and ephedrine products shall be
open for inspection to federal, state, county, and municipal officers, and
employees of the State Board of Pharmacy whose duty it is to enforce the laws
of this state or of the United States relating to controlled substances. Such
prescriptions, orders, records, and stocks shall be open for inspection by the
State Medical Board and its employees for purposes of enforcing R.C. Chapter
4731.
(R.C. § 3715.05)
   (f)   Theft or loss; reporting requirements.
      (1)   Each retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, pharmacy,
prescriber or wholesaler that sells, offers to sell, holds for sale, delivers
or otherwise provides any pseudoephedrine product and that discovers the theft
or loss of any pseudoephedrine product in an amount of more than nine grams per
incident of theft or loss shall notify all of the following upon discovery of
the theft or loss:
         A.   The State Board of Pharmacy, by telephone immediately upon
discovery of the theft or loss;
         B.   Law enforcement authorities. If the incident is a theft and the
theft constitutes a felony, the retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous
drugs, pharmacy, prescriber or wholesaler shall report the theft to the law
enforcement authorities in accordance with R.C. § 2921.22.
      (2)   Within 30 days after making a report by telephone to the State
Board of Pharmacy pursuant to division (f)(1)A. of this section, a retailer,
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, pharmacy, prescriber or wholesaler
shall send a written report to the State Board of Pharmacy.
      (3)   The reports required under this section shall identify the product
that was stolen or lost, the amount of the product stolen or lost, and the date
and time of discovery of the theft or loss.
(R.C. § 3715.06)
§ 624.16 SALE OF PURE CAFFEINE PRODUCT.
   (a)   As used in this section, “pure caffeine product” means:
      (1)   Subject to division (a)(2) of this section, a product that consists
solely or primarily of caffeine and is manufactured into a crystalline, liquid,
or powdered form.
      (2)   The phrase does not include any of the following that contains
caffeine and is formulated, manufactured, and labeled in accordance with the
laws and regulations enforced by the United States Food and Drug
Administration:
         A.   Coffee, tea, any soft drink, any energy drink, or any other
caffeine-containing beverage;
         B.   Any energy product.
   (b)   Except as provided in division (c) of this section, no person shall
knowingly sell or offer for sale a pure caffeine product.
   (c)   Division (b) of this section does not prohibit a person from selling
or offering for sale any product manufactured in a unit-dose form such as a
pill, tablet, or caplet, but only if each unit dose of the product contains not
more than 250 milligrams of caffeine.
   (d)   Nothing in this section prohibits either of the following:
      (1)   Possession of a product described in division (c) of this section;
      (2)   Possession of a pure caffeine product by any of the following:
         A.   A food processing establishment, as defined in R.C. § 3715.021;
         B.   A manufacturer of a drug that is available without a
prescription;
         C.   A laboratory that holds a current, valid category III terminal
distributor of dangerous drugs license issued by the state board of pharmacy
under R.C. § 4729.54;
         D.   A laboratory of any agency or department of this state that
performs testing, analysis, and other laboratory services on behalf of the
state;
         E.   A postal or delivery service that transports or delivers a pure
caffeine product to an entity specified in divisions (d)(2)A. to (d)(2)D. of
this section.
   (e)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of illegal
sale of pure caffeine, a minor misdemeanor on a first offense and a misdemeanor
of the third degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 2925.34)
§ 624.17 SALE OF DEXTROMETHORPHAN.
   (a)   As used in this section:
      (1)   Dextromethorphan." Means the dextrorotatory isomer of 3-methoxy-N-
methylmorphinan, including its salts, but not including its racemic or
levorotatory forms.
      (2)   "Evidence of majority and identity." Means a document issued by the
federal government or a state, county, or municipal government, or a
subdivision or agency of any of the foregoing, including a driver's or
commercial driver's license, an identification card issued under R.C. §§
4507.50 to 4507.52, a military identification card, or any other form of
identification that bears the name, date of birth, description, and picture of
the person identified.
      (3)   "Retailer." Means a place of business that offers consumer products
for sale to the general public, including a terminal distributor of dangerous
drugs that is licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 and operated as a pharmacy.
   (b)   No retailer or employee of a retailer shall knowingly supply, deliver,
give, or otherwise provide a drug, material, compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance containing any quantity of dextromethorphan through the sale of any
product to a person under 18 years of age, unless the person has been issued a
prescription for the product being purchased.
   (c)   For purposes of division (b) of this section, the person making the
sale of a product containing dextromethorphan shall require and obtain evidence
of majority and identity from the purchaser, unless from the purchaser's
outward appearance the person making the sale would reasonably presume the
purchaser to be 25 years of age or older. Proof that the person making the sale
demanded, was shown, and acted in reasonable reliance on the purchaser's
evidence of majority and identity is a defense to any charge of a violation of
division (b) of this section.
   (d)   A retailer or employee of a retailer is not liable for damages in a
civil action for injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly
arises from an act or omission associated with a failure to prevent the sale of
a product containing dextromethorphan to a person under 18 years of age, unless
the act or omission constitutes willful or wanton misconduct.
   (e)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of illegally
selling dextromethorphan, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2925.62)
CHAPTER 630: GAMBLING
Section
630.01   Definitions
630.02   Gambling in general
630.03   Operating a gambling house
630.04   Public gaming
630.05   Cheating
630.06   Responsibility of charitable organization conducting bingo game
630.07   Maintenance of records by charitable organizations
630.08   Qualifications of bingo game operator
630.09   Exemption for bingo games conducted for amusement
630.10   Prohibitions where instant bingo game is conducted
630.11   Raffle drawings
630.12   Instant bingo other than at bingo sessions
630.13   Restrictions on owner or lessor of location at instant bingo
630.14   Skill-based amusement machines; prohibited conduct
630.15   Electronic instant bingo; prohibited conduct
Cross-references:
   Definitions generally, see §
606.01
   Disposition of unclaimed or forfeited property held by Police Department,
see §
608.16
Statutory references:
   Power to destroy devices, see R.C. § 715.51
   Power to prohibit gambling, see R.C. § 715.49
§ 630.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (a)   “Bet.” The hazarding of anything of value upon the result of an event,
undertaking, or contingency, but does not include a bona fide business risk.
   (b)   “Bingo.” Either of the following:
      (1)   A game with all of the following characteristics:
         A.   The participants use bingo cards or sheets, including paper
formats and electronic representation or image formats, that are divided into
25 spaces arranged in 5 horizontal and 5 vertical rows of spaces, with each
space, except the central space, being designated by a combination of a letter
and a number and with the central space being designated as a free space;
         B.   The participants cover the spaces on the bingo cards or sheets
that correspond to combinations of letters and numbers that are announced by a
bingo game operator;
         C.   A bingo game operator announces combinations of letters and
numbers that appear on objects that a bingo game operator selects by chance,
either manually or mechanically, from a receptacle that contains 75 objects at
the beginning of each game, each object marked by a different combination of a
letter and a number that corresponds to one of the 75 possible combinations of
a letter and a number that can appear on the bingo cards or sheets;
         D.   The winner of the bingo game includes any participant who
properly announces during the interval between the announcements of letters and
numbers, as described in division (1)C. of this definition, that a
predetermined and pre-announced pattern of spaces has been covered on a bingo
card or sheet being used by the participant.
      (2)   Instant bingo, electronic instant bingo, and raffles.
   (c)   "Bingo game operator." Any person, except security personnel, who
performs work or labor at the site of bingo including but not limited to
collecting money from participants, handing out bingo cards or sheets or
objects to cover spaces on bingo cards or sheets, selecting from a receptacle
the objects that contain the combination of letters and numbers that appear on
bingo cards or sheets, calling out the combinations of letters and numbers,
distributing prizes, selling or redeeming instant bingo tickets or cards,
selling or redeeming electronic instant bingo tickets, credits, or vouchers,
accessing an electronic instant bingo system other than as a participant,
supervising the operation of a punch board, selling raffle tickets, selecting
raffle tickets from a receptacle and announcing the winning numbers in a
raffle, and preparing, selling, and serving food or beverages. "Bingo game
operator" does not include a person who is installing, maintaining, updating,
or repairing an electronic instant bingo system.
   (d)   “Bingo session.” A period that includes both of the following:
      (1)   Not to exceed five continuous hours for the conduct of one or more
games described in division (1) of the definition of "bingo" in this section,
instant bingo and electronic instant bingo;
      (2)   A period for the conduct of instant bingo and electronic instant
bingo for not more than two hours before and not more than two hours after the
period described in division (1) of this definition.
   (e)   "Bingo supplies." Bingo cards or sheets; instant bingo tickets or
cards; electronic bingo aids; raffle tickets; punch boards; seal cards; instant
bingo ticket dispensers; electronic instant bingo systems; and devices for
selecting or displaying the combination of bingo letters and numbers or raffle
tickets. Items that are "bingo supplies" are not gambling devices if sold or
otherwise provided, and used, in accordance with this chapter or R.C. Chapter
2915. For purposes of this chapter, "bingo supplies" are not to be considered
equipment used to conduct a bingo game.
   (f)   “Bookmaking.” The business of receiving or paying off bets.
   (g)   “Chamber of commerce.” Any organization of individuals, professionals
and businesses that has the purpose to advance the commercial, financial,
industrial and civic interests of the community and that is, and has received
from the Internal Revenue Service a determination letter that currently is in
effect stating that the organization is, exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(6).
   (h)   “Charitable bingo game.” Any bingo game described in divisions (1) or
(2) of the definition of “bingo” in this section that is conducted by a
charitable organization that has obtained a license pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08
and the proceeds of which are used for a charitable purpose.
   (i)   “Charitable instant bingo organization.” An organization that is
exempt from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501
(c)(3) and is a charitable organization as defined in this section. A
“charitable instant bingo organization” does not include a charitable
organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a) and
described in IRC 501(c)(3) and that is created by a veteran’s organization, a
fraternal organization, or a sporting organization in regards to bingo
conducted or assisted by a veteran’s organization, a fraternal organization or
a sporting organization pursuant to R.C. § 2915.13, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (j)   “Charitable organization.”
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, “charitable
organization” means either of the following:
         A.   An organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under
IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3);
         B.   A volunteer rescue service organization, volunteer firefighter’s
organization, veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC §§ 501(c)
(4), 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10) or 501(c)(19).
      (2)   To qualify as a charitable organization, an organization shall have
been in continuous existence as such in this state for a period of two years
immediately preceding either the making of an application for a bingo license
under R.C. § 2915.08 or the conducting of any game of chance as provided in
R.C. § 2915.02(D), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (k)   "Charitable purpose." The net profit of bingo, other than instant
bingo or electronic instant bingo, is used by, or is given, donated or
otherwise transferred to, any of the following:
      (1)   Any organization that is described in IRC 509(a)(1), (a)(2) or (a)
(3) and is either a governmental unit or an organization that is tax exempt
under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3);
      (2)   A veteran’s organization that is a post, chapter or organization of
veterans, or an auxiliary unit or society of, or a trust or foundation for, any
such post, chapter or organization organized in the United States or any of its
possessions, at least 75% of the members of which are veterans and
substantially all of the other members of which are individuals who are
spouses, widows or widowers of veterans, or those individuals, provided that no
part of the net earnings of the post, chapter or organization inures to the
benefit of any private shareholder or individual, and further provided that the
net profit is used by the post, chapter or organization for the charitable
purposes set forth in R.C. § 5739.02(B)(12), is used for awarding scholarships
to or for attendance at an institution mentioned in that division of the
Revised Code, is donated to a governmental agency, or is used for nonprofit
youth activities, the purchase of United States or Ohio flags that are donated
to schools, youth groups or other bona fide nonprofit organizations, promotion
of patriotism or disaster relief;
      (3)   A fraternal organization that has been in continuous existence in
this state for 15 years and that uses the net profit exclusively for religious,
charitable, scientific, literary or educational purposes, or for the prevention
of cruelty to children or animals, if contributions for that use would qualify
as a deductible charitable contribution under IRC 170;
      (4)   A volunteer firefighter’s organization that uses the net profit for
the purposes set forth in the definition of “volunteer firefighter’s
organization” in this section.
   (l)   “Community action agency.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 122.66.
   (m)   “Conduct.” To back, promote, organize, manage, carry on, sponsor or
prepare for the operation of bingo or a game of chance, a scheme of chance, or
a sweepstakes.
   (n)   "Deal." A single game of instant bingo tickets, or a single game of
electronic instant bingo tickets, all with the same serial number.
   (o)   “Distributor.” Any person who purchases or obtains bingo supplies and
who does either of the following:
      (1)   Sells, offers for sale or otherwise provides or offers to provide
the bingo supplies to another person for use in this state;
      (2)   Modifies, converts, adds to or removes parts from the bingo
supplies to further their promotion or sale for use in this state.
   (p)   “Electronic bingo aid.”
      (1)   “Electronic bingo aid” means an electronic device used by a
participant to monitor bingo cards or sheets purchased at the time and place of
a bingo session and that does all of the following:
         A.   It provides a means for a participant to input numbers and
letters announced by a bingo caller.
         B.   It compares the numbers and letters entered by the participant to
the bingo faces previously stored in the memory of the device.
         C.   It identifies a winning bingo pattern.
      (2)   “Electronic bingo aid” does not include any device into which a
coin, currency, token or an equivalent is inserted to activate play.
   (q)   "Electronic instant bingo."
      (1)   A form of bingo that consists of an electronic or digital
representation of instant bingo in which a participant wins a prize if the
participant's electronic instant bingo ticket contains a combination of numbers
or symbols that was designated in advance as a winning combination, and to
which all of the following apply:
         A.   Each deal has a predetermined, finite number of winning and
losing tickets and a predetermined prize amount and deal structure, provided
that there may be multiple winning combinations in each deal and multiple
winning tickets.
         B.   Each electronic instant bingo ticket within a deal has a unique
serial number that is not regenerated.
         C.   Each electronic instant bingo ticket within a deal is sold for
the same price.
         D.   After a participant purchases an electronic instant bingo ticket,
the combination of numbers or symbols on the ticket is revealed to the
participant.
         E.   The reveal of numbers or symbols on the ticket may incorporate an
entertainment or bonus theme, provided that the reveal does not include
spinning reels that resemble a slot machine.
         F.   The reveal theme, if any, does not require additional
consideration or award any prize other than any predetermined prize associated
with the electronic instant bingo ticket.
      (2)   "Electronic instant bingo" shall not include any of the following:
         A.   Any game, entertainment, or bonus theme that replicates or
simulates any of the following:
            1.   The gambling games of keno, blackjack, roulette, poker, craps,
other casino-style table games;
            2.   Horse racing;
            3.   Gambling games offered in this state on slot machines or video
lottery terminals. As used in this division, "video lottery terminal" has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 3770.21.
         B.   Any device operated by dropping one or more coins or tokens into
a slot and pulling a handle or pushing a button or touchpoint on a touchscreen
to activate one to three or more rotating reels marked into horizontal segments
by varying symbols, where the predetermined prize amount depends on how and how
many of the symbols line up when the rotating reels come to a rest;
         C.   Any device that includes a coin or token slot, tray, or hopper
and the ability to dispense coins, cash, tokens, or anything of value other
than a credit ticket voucher.
   (r)   "Electronic instant bingo system." Means both of the following:
      (1)   A mechanical, electronic, digital, or video device and associated
software to which all of the following apply:
         A.   It is used by not more than one player at a time to play
electronic instant bingo on a single screen that is physically connected to the
device;
         B.   It is located on the premises of the principal place of business
of a veteran's or fraternal organization that holds a type II or type III bingo
license to conduct electronic instant bingo at that location issued under R.C.
§ 2915.08.
      (2)   Any associated equipment or software used to manage, monitor, or
document any aspect of electronic instant bingo.
   (s)   “Expenses.” The reasonable amount of gross profit actually expended
for all of the following:
      (1)   The purchase or lease of bingo supplies;
      (2)   The annual license fee required under R.C. § 2915.08;
      (3)   Bank fees and service charges for a bingo session or game account
described in R.C. § 2915.10;
      (4)   Audits and accounting services;
      (5)   Safes;
      (6)   Cash registers;
      (7)   Hiring security personnel;
      (8)   Advertising bingo;
      (9)   Renting premises in which to conduct a bingo session;
      (10)   Tables and chairs;
      (11)   Expenses for maintaining and operating a charitable organization’s
facilities, including but not limited to a post home, club house, lounge,
tavern or canteen and any grounds attached to the post home, club house,
lounge, tavern or canteen;
      (12)   Payment of real property taxes and assessments that are levied on
a premises on which bingo is conducted;
      (13)   Any other product or service directly related to the conduct of
bingo that is authorized in rules adopted by the Attorney General under R.C. §
2915.08(F)(1).
   (t)   “Fraternal organization.” Any society, order, state headquarters or
association within this state, except a college or high school fraternity, that
is not organized for profit, that is a branch, lodge or chapter of a national
or state organization, that exists exclusively for the common business or
sodality of its members.
   (u)   “Gambling device.” Any of the following:
      (1)   A book, totalizer or other equipment used for recording bets;
      (2)   A ticket, token or other device representing a chance, share or
interest in a scheme of chance or evidencing a bet;
      (3)   A deck of cards, dice, gaming table, roulette wheel, slot machine
or other apparatus designed for use in connection with a game of chance;
      (4)   Any equipment, device, apparatus or paraphernalia specially
designed for gambling purposes;
      (5)   Bingo supplies sold or otherwise provided, or used, in violation of
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (v)   “Gambling offense.” Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. Chapter 2915;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States substantially equivalent to any
provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 or a violation of R.C. § 2915.06
as it existed prior to July 1, 1996;
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former municipal ordinance or law
of this or any other state or of the United States, of which gambling is an
element;
      (4)   A conspiracy or attempt to commit, or complicity in committing, any
offense under division (1), (2) or (3) of this definition.
   (w)   "Game flare." The board or placard, or electronic representation of a
board or placard, that accompanies each deal of instant bingo or electronic
instant bingo tickets and that includes the following information for the game:
      (1)   The name of the game;
      (2)   The manufacturer’s name or distinctive logo;
      (3)   The form number;
      (4)   The ticket count;
      (5)   The prize structure, including the number of winning tickets by
denomination and the respective winning symbol or number combinations for the
winning tickets;
      (6)   The cost per play;
      (7)   The serial number of the game.
   (x)   “Game of chance.” Poker, craps, roulette or other game in which a
player gives anything of value in the hope of gain, the outcome of which is
determined largely by chance, but does not include bingo.
   (y)   “Game of chance conducted for profit.” Any game of chance designed to
produce income for the person who conducts or operates the game of chance, but
does not include bingo.
   (z)   “Gross annual revenues.” The annual gross receipts derived from the
conduct of bingo described in division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in this
section plus the annual net profit derived from the conduct of bingo described
in division (2) of the definition of “bingo” in this section.
   (aa)   “Gross profit.” Gross receipts minus the amount actually expended for
the payment of prize awards.
   (bb)   “Gross receipts.” All money or assets, including admission fees, that
a person receives from bingo without the deduction of any amounts for prizes
paid out or for the expenses of conducting bingo. “Gross receipts” does not
include any money directly taken in from the sale of food or beverages by a
charitable organization conducting bingo, or by a bona fide auxiliary unit or
society of a charitable organization conducting bingo, provided all of the
following apply:
      (1)   The auxiliary unit or society has been in existence as a bona fide
auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization for at least two years
prior to conducting bingo.
      (2)   The person who purchases the food or beverage receives nothing of
value except the food or beverage and items customarily received with the
purchase of that food or beverage.
      (3)   The food and beverages are sold at customary and reasonable prices.
   (cc)   “Historic railroad.” All or a portion of the tracks and right-of-way
of a railroad that was owned and operated by a for-profit common carrier in
this state at any time prior to January 1, 1950.
   (dd)   "Instant bingo." A form of bingo that shall use folded or banded
tickets or paper cards with perforated break-open tabs, a face of which is
covered or otherwise hidden from view to conceal a number, letter, or symbol,
or set of numbers, letters, or symbols, some of which have been designated in
advance as prize winners, and may also include games in which some winners are
determined by the random selection of one or more bingo numbers by the use of a
seal card or bingo blower. "Instant bingo" also includes a punch board game. In
all "instant bingo" the prize amount and structure shall be predetermined. The
term does not include electronic instant bingo or any device that is activated
by the insertion of a coin, currency, token, or an equivalent, and that
contains as one of its components a video display monitor that is capable of
displaying numbers, letters, symbols, or characters in winning or losing
combinations.
   (ee)   “Instant bingo ticket dispenser.” A mechanical device that dispenses
an instant bingo ticket or card as the sole item of value dispensed and that
has the following characteristics:
      (1)   It is activated upon the insertion of United States currency.
      (2)   It performs no gaming functions.
      (3)   It does not contain a video display monitor or generate noise.
      (4)   It is not capable of displaying any numbers, letters, symbols or
characters in winning or losing combinations.
      (5)   It does not simulate or display rolling or spinning reels.
      (6)   It is incapable of determining whether a dispensed bingo ticket or
card is a winning or non-winning ticket or card and requires a winning ticket
or card to be paid by a bingo game operator.
      (7)   It may provide accounting and security features to aid in
accounting for the instant bingo tickets or cards it dispenses.
      (8)   It is not part of an electronic network and is not interactive.
   (ff)   “IRC” or “Internal Revenue Code.” The Internal Revenue Code of 1986,
100 Stat. 2085, 26 U.S.C. §§ 1 et seq., as now or hereafter amended.
   (gg)   “Manufacturer.” Any person who assembles completed bingo supplies
from raw materials, other items or subparts or who modifies, converts, adds to
or removes parts from bingo supplies to further their promotion or sale.
   (hh)   “Merchandise prize.” Any item of value, but shall not include any of
the following:
      (1)   Cash, gift cards or any equivalent thereof;
      (2)   Plays on games of chance, state lottery tickets, or bingo;
      (3)   Firearms, tobacco or alcoholic beverages; or
      (4)   A redeemable voucher that is redeemable for any of the items listed
in division (1), (2) or (3) of this definition.
   (ii)   “Net profit.” Gross profit minus expenses.
   (jj)   "Net profit from the proceeds of the sale of instant bingo or
electronic instant bingo." Gross profit minus the ordinary, necessary, and
reasonable expense expended for the purchase of bingo supplies for the purpose
of conducting instant bingo or electronic instant bingo, and, in the case of
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conducted by a veteran's, fraternal,
or sporting organization, minus the payment by that organization of real
property taxes and assessments levied on a premises on which instant bingo or
electronic instant bingo is conducted.
   (kk)   “Participant.” Any person who plays bingo.
   (ll)   “Person.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1.59 and includes any
firm or any other legal entity, however organized.
   (mm)   “Pool not conducted for profit.” A scheme in which a participant
gives a valuable consideration for a chance to win a prize and the total amount
of consideration wagered is distributed to a participant or participants.
   (nn)   "Punch board." A form of instant bingo that uses a board containing a
number of holes or receptacles of uniform size in which are placed,
mechanically and randomly, serially numbered slips of paper that may be punched
or drawn from the hole or receptacle. A player may punch or draw the numbered
slips of paper from the holes or receptacles and obtain the prize established
for the game if the number drawn corresponds to a winning number or, if the
punch board includes the use of a seal card, a potential winning number.
   (oo)   “Raffle.” A form of bingo in which the one or more prizes are won by
one or more persons who have purchased a raffle ticket. The one or more winners
of the raffle are determined by drawing a ticket stub or other detachable
section from a receptacle containing ticket stubs or detachable sections
corresponding to all tickets sold for the raffle. The term does not include the
drawing of a ticket stub or other detachable section of a ticket purchased to
attend a professional sporting event if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The ticket stub or other detachable section is used to select the
winner of a free prize given away at the professional sporting event; and
      (2)   The cost of the ticket is the same as the cost of a ticket to the
professional sporting event on days when no free prize is given away.
   (pp)   “Redeemable voucher.” Any ticket, token, coupon, receipt or other
noncash representation of value.
   (qq)   “Religious organization.” Any church, body of communicants, or group
that is not organized or operated for profit and that gathers in common
membership for regular worship and religious observances.
   (rr)   “Revoke.” To void permanently all rights and privileges of the holder
of a license issued under R.C. §§ 2915.08, 2915.081 or 2915.082 or a charitable
gaming license issued by another jurisdiction.
   (ss)   “Scheme of chance.”
      (1)   A slot machine unless authorized under R.C. Chapter 3772, lottery
unless authorized under R.C. Chapter 3770, numbers game, pool conducted for
profit, or other scheme in which a participant gives a valuable consideration
for a chance to win a prize, but does not include bingo, a skill-based
amusement machine, or a pool not conducted for profit. “Scheme of chance”
includes the use of an electronic device to reveal the results of a game entry
if valuable consideration is paid, directly or indirectly, for a chance to win
a prize. Valuable consideration is deemed to be paid for a chance to win a
prize in the following instances:
         A.   Less than 50% of the goods or services sold by a scheme of chance
operator in exchange for game entries are used or redeemed by participants at
any one location;
         B.   Less than 50% of participants who purchase goods or services at
any one location do not accept, use, or redeem the goods or services sold or
purportedly sold;
         C.   More than 50% of prizes at any one location are revealed to
participants through an electronic device simulating a game of chance or a
“casino game” as defined in R.C. § 3772.01;
         D.   The good or service sold by a scheme of chance operator in
exchange for a game entry cannot be used or redeemed in the manner advertised;
         E.   A participant pays more than fair market value for goods or
services offered by a scheme of chance operator in order to receive one or more
game entries;
         F.   A participant may use the electronic device to purchase
additional game entries;
         G.   A participant may purchase additional game entries by using
points or credits won as prizes while using the electronic device;
         H.   A scheme of chance operator pays out in prize money more than 20%
of the gross revenue received at one location; or
         I.   A participant makes a purchase or exchange in order to obtain any
good or service that may be used to facilitate play on the electronic device.
      (2)   As used in this division, “electronic device” means a mechanical,
video, digital, or electronic machine or device that is capable of displaying
information on a screen or other mechanism and that is owned, leased, or
otherwise possessed by any person conducting a scheme of chance, or by that
person’s partners, affiliates, subsidiaries, or contractors. "Electronic
device" does not include an electronic instant bingo system.
   (tt)   “Seal card.” A form of instant bingo that uses instant bingo tickets
in conjunction with a board or placard that contains one or more seals that,
when removed or opened, reveal predesignated winning numbers, letters or
symbols.
   (uu)   “Security personnel.” Any person who either is a Sheriff, Deputy
Sheriff, Marshal, Deputy Marshal, township constable, or member of an organized
police department of a municipal corporation or has successfully completed a
peace officer’s training course pursuant to R.C. §§ 109.71 to 109.79 and who is
hired to provide security for the premises on which bingo is conducted.
   (vv)   “Skill-based amusement machine.”
      (1)   A.   A mechanical, video, digital or electronic device that rewards
the player or players, if at all, only with merchandise prizes or with
redeemable vouchers redeemable only for merchandise prizes, provided that with
respect to rewards for playing the game all of the following apply:
            1.   The wholesale value of a merchandise prize awarded as a result
of the single play of a machine does not exceed $10;
            2.   Redeemable vouchers awarded for any single play of a machine
are not redeemable for a merchandise prize with a wholesale value of more than
$10;
            3.   Redeemable vouchers are not redeemable for a merchandise prize
that has a wholesale value of more than $10 times the fewest number of single
plays necessary to accrue the redeemable vouchers required to obtain that
prize; and
            4.   Any redeemable vouchers or merchandise prizes are distributed
at the site of the skill-based amusement machine at the time of play.
         B.   A card for the purchase of gasoline is a redeemable voucher for
purposes of division (1) of this definition even if the skill-based amusement
machine for the play of which the card is awarded is located at a place where
gasoline may not be legally distributed to the public or the card is not
redeemable at the location of, or at the time of playing, the skill-based
amusement machine.
      (2)   A device shall not be considered a skill-based amusement machine
and shall be considered a slot machine if it pays cash or one or more of the
following apply:
         A.   The ability of a player to succeed at the game is impacted by the
number or ratio of prior wins to prior losses of players playing the game;
         B.   Any reward of redeemable vouchers is not based solely on the
player achieving the object of the game or the player’s score;
         C.   The outcome of the game, or the value of the redeemable voucher
or merchandise prize awarded for winning the game, can be controlled by a
source other than any player playing the game;
         D.   The success of any player is or may be determined by a chance
event that cannot be altered by player actions;
         E.   The ability of any player to succeed at the game is determined by
game features not visible or known to the player;
         F.   The ability of the player to succeed at the game is impacted by
the exercise of a skill that no reasonable player could exercise.
      (3)   All of the following apply to any machine that is operated as
described in division (1) of this definition:
         A.   As used in this definition of “skill-based amusement machine”,
“game” and “play” mean one event from the initial activation of the machine
until the results of play are determined without payment of additional
consideration. An individual utilizing a machine that involves a single game,
play, contest, competition or tournament may be awarded redeemable vouchers or
merchandise prizes based on the results of play.
         B.   Advance play for a single game, play, contest, competition or
tournament participation may be purchased. The cost of the contest, competition
or tournament participation may be greater than a single non-contest,
competition or tournament play.
         C.   To the extent that the machine is used in a contest, competition
or tournament, that contest, competition or tournament has a defined starting
and ending date and is open to participants in competition for scoring and
ranking results toward the awarding of redeemable vouchers or merchandise
prizes that are stated prior to the start of the contest, competition, or
tournament.
      (4)   For purposes of division (1) of this definition, the mere presence
of a device, such as a pin-setting, ball-releasing or scoring mechanism, that
does not contribute to or affect the outcome of the play of the game does not
make the device a skill-based amusement machine.
   (ww)   “Slot machine.”
      (1)   Either of the following:
         A.   Any mechanical, electronic, video or digital device that is
capable of accepting anything of value, directly or indirectly, from or on
behalf of a player who gives the thing of value in the hope of gain;
         B.   Any mechanical, electronic, video or digital device that is
capable of accepting anything of value, directly or indirectly, from or on
behalf of a player to conduct bingo or a scheme or game of chance.
      (2)   "Slot machine" does not include a skill-based amusement machine, an
instant bingo ticket dispenser, or an electronic instant bingo system.
   (xx)   “Sporting organization.” A hunting, fishing or trapping organization,
other than a college or high school fraternity or sorority, that is not
organized for profit, that is affiliated with a state or national sporting
organization, including but not limited to the League of Ohio Sportsmen, and
that has been in continuous existence in this state for a period of three
years.
   (yy)   “Suspend.” To interrupt temporarily all rights and privileges of the
holder of a license issued under R.C. §§ 2915.08, 2915.081 or 2915.082 or a
charitable gaming license issued by another jurisdiction.
   (zz)   “Sweepstakes.” Any game, contest, advertising scheme or plan, or
other promotion where consideration is not required for a person to enter to
win or become eligible to receive any prize, the determination of which is
based upon chance. “Sweepstakes” does not include bingo as authorized under
R.C. Chapter 2915, pari-mutuel wagering as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3769,
lotteries conducted by the State Lottery Commission as authorized by R.C.
Chapter 3770, and casino gaming as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3772.
   (aaa)   “Sweepstakes terminal device.”
      (1)   A mechanical, video, digital, or electronic machine or device that
is owned, leased, or otherwise possessed by any person conducting a
sweepstakes, or by that person’s partners, affiliates, subsidiaries, or
contractors, that is intended to be used by a sweepstakes participant, and that
is capable of displaying information on a screen or other mechanism. A device
is a sweepstakes terminal device if any of the following apply:
         A.   The device uses a simulated game terminal as a representation of
the prizes associated with the results of the sweepstakes entries.
         B.   The device utilizes software such that the simulated game
influences or determines the winning of or value of the prize.
         C.   The device selects prizes from a predetermined finite pool of
entries.
         D.   The device utilizes a mechanism that reveals the content of a
predetermined sweepstakes entry.
         E.   The device predetermines the prize results and stores those
results for delivery at the time the sweepstakes entry results are revealed.
         F.   The device utilizes software to create a game result.
         G.   The device reveals the prize incrementally, even though the
device does not influence the awarding of the prize or the value of any prize
awarded.
         H.   The device determines and associates the prize with an entry or
entries at the time the sweepstakes is entered.
      (2)   As used in this definition and in §
630.02:
         A.   “Enter.” The act by which a person becomes eligible to receive
any prize offered in a sweepstakes.
         B.   “Entry.” One event from the initial activation of the sweepstakes
terminal device until all the sweepstakes prize results from that activation
are revealed.
         C.   “Prize.” Any gift, award, gratuity, good, service, credit,
reward, or any other thing of value that may be transferred to a person,
whether possession of the prize is actually transferred, or placed on an
account or other record as evidence of the intent to transfer the prize.
         D.   “Sweepstakes terminal device facility.” Any location in this
state where a sweepstakes terminal device is provided to a sweepstakes
participant, except as provided in §
630.02(g) and R.C. § 2915.02(G).
   (bbb)   “Veteran’s organization.” Any individual post or state headquarters
of a national veteran’s association or an auxiliary unit of any individual post
of a national veteran’s association, which post, state headquarters or
auxiliary unit is incorporated as a nonprofit corporation and either has
received a letter from the state headquarters of the national veteran’s
association indicating that the individual post or auxiliary unit is in good
standing with the national veteran’s association or has received a letter from
the national veteran’s association indicating that the state headquarters is in
good standing with the national veteran’s association. As used in this
division, “national veteran’s association” means any veteran’s association that
has been in continuous existence as such for a period of at least five years
and either is incorporated by an act of the United States Congress or has a
national dues-paying membership of at least 5,000 persons.
   (ccc)   “Volunteer firefighter’s organization.” Any organization of
volunteer firefighters, as defined in R.C. § 146.01, that is organized and
operated exclusively to provide financial support for a volunteer fire
department or a volunteer fire company and that is recognized or ratified by a
county, municipal corporation or township.
   (ddd)   “Volunteer rescue service organization.” Any organization of
volunteers organized to function as an emergency medical service organization,
as defined in R.C. § 4765.01.
   (eee)   “Youth athletic organization.” Any organization, not organized for
profit, that is organized and operated exclusively to provide financial support
to, or to operate, athletic activities for persons who are 21 years of age or
younger by means of sponsoring, organizing, operating or contributing to the
support of an athletic team, club, league or association.
   (fff)   “Youth athletic park organization.” Any organization, not organized
for profit, that satisfies both of the following:
      (1)   It owns, operates and maintains playing fields that satisfy both of
the following:
         A.   The playing fields are used for athletic activities by one or
more organizations, not organized for profit, each of which is organized and
operated exclusively to provide financial support to, or to operate, athletic
activities for persons who are 18 years of age or younger by means of
sponsoring, organizing, operating or contributing to the support of an athletic
team, club, league, or association.
         B.   The playing fields are not used for any profit-making activity at
any time during the year.
      (2)   It uses the proceeds of bingo it conducts exclusively for the
operation, maintenance, and improvement of its playing fields of the type
described in division (1) of this definition.
(R.C. § 2915.01)
§ 630.02 GAMBLING IN GENERAL.
   (a)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Engage in bookmaking, or knowingly engage in conduct that
facilitates bookmaking.
      (2)   Establish, promote or operate or knowingly engage in conduct that
facilitates any game of chance conducted for profit or any scheme of chance.
      (3)   Knowingly procure, transmit, exchange or engage in conduct that
facilitates the procurement, transmission or exchange of information for use in
establishing odds or determining winners in connection with bookmaking or with
any game of chance conducted for profit or any scheme of chance.
      (4)   Engage in betting or in playing any scheme or game of chance as a
substantial source of income or livelihood.
      (5)   Conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a sweepstakes with the
use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes terminal device facility
and either:
         A.   Give to another person any item described in R.C. § 2915.01(VV)
(1), (VV)(2), (VV)(3), or (VV)(4) as a prize for playing or participating in a
sweepstakes; or
         B.   Give to another person any merchandise prize, or a redeemable
voucher for a merchandise prize, the wholesale value of which is in excess of
$10 and which is awarded as a single entry for playing or participating in a
sweepstakes. Redeemable vouchers shall not be redeemable for a merchandise
prize that has a wholesale value of more than $10.
      (6)   Conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a sweepstakes with the
use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes terminal device facility
without first obtaining a current annual “certificate of registration” from the
Attorney General as required by R.C. § 2915.02(F).
      (7)   With purpose to violate division (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4),
(a)(5), or (a)(6) of this section, acquire, possess, control or operate any
gambling device.
   (b)   For purposes of division (a)(1) of this section, a person facilitates
bookmaking if the person in any way knowingly aids an illegal bookmaking
operation, including without limitation placing a bet with a person engaged in
or facilitating illegal bookmaking. For purposes of division (a)(2) of this
section, a person facilitates a game of chance conducted for profit or a scheme
of chance if the person in any way knowingly aids in the conduct or operation
of any such game or scheme, including without limitation playing any such game
or scheme.
   (c)   This section does not prohibit conduct in connection with gambling
expressly permitted by law.
   (d)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   Games of chance, if all of the following apply:
         A.   The games of chance are not craps for money or roulette for
money.
         B.   The games of chance are conducted by a charitable organization
that is and has received from the Internal Revenue Service a determination
letter that is currently in effect, stating that the organization is exempt
from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3).
         C.   The games of chance are conducted at festivals of the charitable
organization that are conducted not more than a total of five days a calendar
year, and are conducted on premises owned by the charitable organization for a
period of no less than one year immediately preceding the conducting of the
games of chance, on premises leased from a governmental unit, or on premises
that are leased from a veteran’s or fraternal organization and that have been
owned by the lessor veteran’s or fraternal organization for a period of no less
than one year immediately preceding the conducting of the games of chance. A
charitable organization shall not lease premises from a veteran’s or fraternal
organization to conduct a festival described in this division, if the veteran’s
or fraternal organization already has leased the premises 12 times during the
preceding year to charitable organizations for that purpose. If a charitable
organization leases premises from a veteran’s or fraternal organization to
conduct a festival described in this division, the charitable organization
shall not pay a rental rate for the premises per day of the festival that
exceeds the rental rate per bingo session that a charitable organization may
pay under R.C. § 2915.09(B)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance when it leases premises from another charitable organization to
conduct bingo games.
         D.   All of the money or assets received from the games of chance
after deduction only of prizes paid out during the conduct of the games of
chance are used by, given, donated or otherwise transferred to any organization
that is described in IRC 509(a)(1), (a)(2) or (a)(3) and is either a
governmental unit or an organization that is tax exempt under IRC 501(a) and
described in IRC 501(c)(3).
         E.   The games of chance are not conducted during or within ten hours
of a bingo game conducted for amusement purposes only pursuant to R.C. §
2915.12 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance. No person shall
receive any commission, wage, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity or other
form of compensation, directly or indirectly, for operating or assisting in the
operation of any game of chance.
      (2)   Any tag fishing tournament, as defined in R.C. § 1531.01, operated
under a permit issued under R.C. § 1533.92.
      (3)   Bingo conducted by a charitable organization that holds a license
issued under R.C. § 2915.08.
   (e)   Division (d) of this section shall not be construed to authorize the
sale, lease or other temporary or permanent transfer of the right to conduct
games of chance, as granted by that division, by any charitable organization
that is granted that right.
   (f)   Any person desiring to conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a
sweepstakes with the use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes
terminal device facility shall first register with the Office of the Attorney
General and obtain an annual certificate of registration by providing a filing
fee of $200 and all information as required by rule adopted under R.C. §
2915.02(H). Not later than the tenth day of each month, each sweepstakes
terminal device operator shall file a sweepstakes terminal device monthly
report with the Attorney General and provide a filing fee of $50 and all
information required by rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.02(H). All information
provided to the Attorney General under this division shall be available to law
enforcement upon request.
   (g)   (1)   A person may apply to the Attorney General, on a form prescribed
by the Attorney General, for a certificate of compliance that the person is not
operating a sweepstakes terminal device facility. The form shall require the
person to include the address of the business location where sweepstakes
terminal devices will be used and to make the following certifications:
         A.   That the person will not use more than two sweepstakes terminal
devices at the business location;
         B.   That the retail value of sweepstakes prizes to be awarded at the
business location using sweepstakes terminal devices during a reporting period
will be less than 3% of the gross revenue received at the business location
during the reporting period;
         C.   That no other form of gaming except lottery ticket sales as
authorized under R.C. Chapter 3770 will be conducted at the business location
or in an adjoining area of the business location;
         D.   That any sweepstakes terminal device at the business location
will not allow any deposit of any money, coin, or token, or the use of any
credit card, debit card, prepaid card, or any other method of similar payment
to be used, directly or indirectly, to participate in a sweepstakes;
         E.   That notification of any prize will not take place on the same
day as a participant’s sweepstakes entry; and
         F.   That the person consents to provide any other information to the
Attorney General as required by rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.02(H).
      (2)   The filing fee for a certificate of compliance is $250. The
Attorney General may charge up to an additional $250 for reasonable expenses
resulting from any investigation related to an application for a certificate of
compliance.
      (3)   A certificate of compliance is effective for one year. The
certificate holder may reapply for a certificate of compliance. A person issued
a certificate of compliance shall file semiannual reports with the Attorney
General stating the number of sweepstakes terminal devices at the business
location and that the retail value of prizes awarded at the business location
using sweepstakes terminal devices is less than 3% of the gross revenue
received at the business location.
   (h)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of gambling, a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling
offense, gambling is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
Notwithstanding this division, failing to file a sweepstakes terminal device
monthly report as required by division (f) of this section or the semiannual
report required by division (g) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 2915.02(A) - (G), (K))
§ 630.03 OPERATING A GAMBLING HOUSE.
   (a)   No person, being the owner or lessee, or having custody, control or
supervision of premises, shall:
      (1)   Use or occupy the premises for gambling in violation of R.C. §
2915.02 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   Recklessly permit the premises to be used or occupied for gambling
in violation of R.C. § 2915.02 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (b)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of operating a
gambling house, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously
has been convicted of a gambling offense, operating a gambling house is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (c)   Premises used or occupied in violation of this section constitute a
nuisance subject to abatement under R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2915.03)
§ 630.04 PUBLIC GAMING.
   (a)   No person, while at a hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall or
other place of public accommodation, business, amusement or resort shall make a
bet or play any game of chance or scheme of chance.
   (b)   No person, being the owner or lessee, or having custody, control or
supervision of a hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall or other place
of public accommodation, business, amusement or resort shall recklessly permit
those premises to be used or occupied in violation of division (a) of this
section.
   (c)   Divisions (a) and (b) of this section do not prohibit conduct in
connection with gambling expressly permitted by law.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of public gaming. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, public gaming is a minor misdemeanor. If
the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling offense, public
gaming is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (e)   Premises used or occupied in violation of division (b) of this section
constitute a nuisance subject to abatement under R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2915.04)
§ 630.05 CHEATING.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall engage in conduct designed to corrupt the outcome
of any of the following:
      (1)   The subject of a bet.
      (2)   A contest of knowledge, skill or endurance that is not an athletic
or sporting event.
      (3)   A scheme or game of chance.
      (4)   Bingo.
   (b)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Offer, give, solicit or accept anything of value to corrupt the
outcome of an athletic or sporting event.
      (2)   Engage in conduct designed to corrupt the outcome of an athletic or
sporting event.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of
cheating. Except as otherwise provided in this division, cheating is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the potential gain from the cheating is
$1,000 or more or if the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling
offense or of any theft offense as defined in R.C. § 2913.01, cheating is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of
corrupting sports. Corrupting sports is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.05)
§ 630.06 RESPONSIBILITY OF CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION CONDUCTING BINGO GAME.
   (a)   No charitable organization that conducts bingo shall fail to do any of
the following:
      (1)   Own all of the equipment used to conduct bingo or lease that
equipment from a charitable organization that is licensed to conduct bingo, or
from the landlord of a premises where bingo is conducted, for a rental rate
that is not more than is customary and reasonable for that equipment;
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (a)(3) of this section,
use all of the gross receipts from bingo for paying prizes, for reimbursement
of expenses for or for renting premises in which to conduct bingo, for
reimbursement of expenses for or for purchasing or leasing bingo supplies used
in conducting bingo, for reimbursement of expenses for or for hiring security
personnel, for reimbursement of expenses for or for advertising bingo, or for
reimbursement of other expenses or for other expenses listed in the definition
for “expenses” in R.C. § 2915.01, provided that the amount of the receipts so
spent is not more than is customary and reasonable for a similar purchase,
lease, hiring, advertising or expense. If the building in which bingo is
conducted is owned by the charitable organization conducting bingo and the
bingo conducted includes a form of bingo described in division (1) of the
definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01, the charitable organization may deduct
from the total amount of the gross receipts from each session a sum equal to
the lesser of $600 or 45% of the gross receipts from the bingo described in
that division as consideration for the use of the premises;
      (3)   Use, or give, donate, or otherwise transfer, all of the net profit
derived from bingo described in R.C. § 2915.01(O)(1) for a charitable purpose
listed in its license application and described in R.C. § 2915.01(V), or
distribute all of the net profit from the proceeds of the sale of instant bingo
or electronic instant bingo as stated in its license application and in
accordance with R.C. § 2915.101, as applicable.
   (b)   No charitable organization that conducts a bingo game described in
division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01 shall fail to do
any of the following:
      (1)   Conduct the bingo game on premises that are owned by the charitable
organization, on premises that are owned by another charitable organization and
leased from that charitable organization for a rental rate not in excess of the
lesser of $650 per bingo session or 45% of the gross receipts of the bingo
session, on premises that are leased from a person other than a charitable
organization for a rental rate that is not more than is customary and
reasonable for premises that are similar in location, size and quality but not
in excess of $450 per bingo session, or on premises that are owned by a person
other than a charitable organization, that are leased from that person by
another charitable organization, and that are subleased from that other
charitable organization by the charitable organization for a rental rate not in
excess of $450 per bingo session. No charitable organization is required to pay
property taxes or assessments on premises that the charitable organization
leases from another person to conduct bingo sessions. If the charitable
organization leases from a person other than a charitable organization the
premises on which it conducts bingo sessions, the lessor of the premises shall
provide only the premises to the organization and shall not provide the
organization with bingo game operators, security personnel, concessions or
concession operators, bingo supplies, or any other type of service. A
charitable organization shall not lease or sublease premises that it owns or
leases to more than three other charitable organizations per calendar week for
the purpose of conducting bingo sessions on the premises. A person that is not
a charitable organization shall not lease premises that it owns, leases or
otherwise is empowered to lease to more than three charitable organizations per
calendar week for conducting bingo sessions on the premises. In no case shall
more than nine bingo sessions be conducted on any premises in any calendar
week;
      (2)   Display its license conspicuously at the premises where the bingo
session is conducted;
      (3)   Conduct the bingo session in accordance with division (1) of the
definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01.
   (c)   No charitable organization that conducts a bingo game described in
division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01 shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Pay any compensation to a bingo game operator for operating a bingo
session that is conducted by the charitable organization or for preparing,
selling or serving food or beverages at the site of the bingo session, permit
any auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization to pay
compensation to any bingo game operator who prepares, sells or serves food or
beverages at a bingo session conducted by the charitable organization, or
permit any auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization to prepare,
sell or serve food or beverages at a bingo session conducted by the charitable
organization, if the auxiliary unit or society pays any compensation to the
bingo game operators who prepare, sell or serve the food or beverages;
      (2)   Pay consulting fees to any person for any services performed in
relation to the bingo session;
      (3)   Pay concession fees to any person who provides refreshments to the
participants in the bingo session;
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(4) of this section,
conduct more than three bingo sessions in any seven-day period. A volunteer
firefighter’s organization or a volunteer rescue service organization that
conducts not more than five bingo sessions in a calendar year may conduct more
than three bingo sessions in a seven-day period after notifying the Attorney
General when it will conduct the sessions;
      (5)   Pay out more than $6,000 in prizes for bingo games described in
R.C. § 2915.01(S)(1) during any bingo session that is conducted by the
charitable organization. “Prizes” does not include awards from the conduct of
instant bingo;
      (6)   Conduct a bingo session at any time during the eight-hour period
between 2:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m., at any time during, or within ten hours of, a
bingo game conducted for amusement only pursuant to R.C. § 2915.12 or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, at any premises not specified on
its license, or on any day of the week or during any time period not specified
on its license. This division does not prohibit the sale of instant bingo
tickets beginning at 9:00 a.m. for a bingo session that begins at 10:00 a.m. If
circumstances make it impractical for the charitable organization to conduct a
bingo session at the premises, or on the day of the week or at the time
specified on its license or if a charitable organization wants to conduct bingo
sessions on a day of the week or at a time other than the day or time specified
on its license, the charitable organization may apply in writing to the
Attorney General for an amended license pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08(J). A
charitable organization may apply twice in each calendar year for an amended
license to conduct bingo sessions on a day of the week or at a time other than
the day or time specified on its license. If the amended license is granted,
the organization may conduct bingo sessions at the premises, on the day of the
week, and at the time specified on its amended license;
      (7)   Permit any person whom the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, is under the age of 18 to work as a bingo game operator;
      (8)   Permit any person whom the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any
jurisdiction to be a bingo game operator;
      (9)   Permit the lessor of the premises on which the bingo session is
conducted, if the lessor is not a charitable organization, to provide the
charitable organization with bingo game operators, security personnel,
concessions, bingo supplies or any other type of service;
      (10)   Purchase or lease bingo supplies from any person except a
distributor issued a license under R.C. § 2915.081;
      (11)   A.   Use or permit the use of electronic bingo aids except under
the following circumstances:
            1.   For any single participant, not more than 90 bingo faces can
be played using an electronic bingo aid or aids.
            2.   The charitable organization shall provide a participant using
an electronic bingo aid with corresponding paper bingo cards or sheets.
            3.   The total price of bingo faces played with an electronic bingo
aid shall be equal to the total price of the same number of bingo faces played
with a paper bingo card or sheet sold at the same bingo session but without an
electronic bingo aid.
            4.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be part of an electronic
network other than a network that includes only bingo aids and devices that are
located on the premises at which the bingo is being conducted or be interactive
with any device not located on the premises at which the bingo is being
conducted.
            5.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be used to participate in bingo
that is conducted at a location other than the location at which the bingo
session is conducted and at which the electronic bingo aid is used.
            6.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be used to provide for the
input of numbers and letters announced by a bingo caller other than the bingo
caller who physically calls the numbers and letters at the location at which
the bingo session is conducted and at which the electronic bingo aid is used.
         B.   The Attorney General may adopt rules in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 119 that govern the use of electronic bingo aids. The rules may include
a requirement that an electronic bingo aid be capable of being audited by the
Attorney General to verify the number of bingo cards or sheets played during
each bingo session.
      (12)   Permit any person the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, to be under 18 years of age to play bingo described in division (1)
of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01.
   (d)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (d)(3) of this section,
no charitable organization shall provide to a bingo game operator, and no bingo
game operator shall receive or accept, any commission, wage, salary, reward,
tip, donation, gratuity or other form of compensation, directly or indirectly,
regardless of the source, for conducting bingo or providing other work or labor
at the site of bingo during a bingo session.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (d)(3) of this section, no
charitable organization shall provide to a bingo game operator any commission,
wage, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity, or other form of compensation,
directly or indirectly regardless of the source, for conducting instant bingo,
electronic instant bingo, or both other than at a bingo session at the site of
instant bingo, electronic instant bingo, or both other than at a bingo session.
      (3)   Nothing in this division (d) of this section prohibits an employee
of a fraternal organization, veteran’s organization or sporting organization
from selling instant bingo tickets or cards to the organization’s members or
invited guests, as long as no portion of the employee’s compensation is paid
from any receipts of bingo.
   (e)   Notwithstanding division (b)(1) of this section, a charitable
organization that, prior to December 6, 1977, has entered into written
agreements for the lease of premises it owns to another charitable organization
or other charitable organizations for the conducting of bingo sessions so that
more than two bingo sessions are conducted per calendar week on the premises,
and a person that is not a charitable organization and that, prior to December
6, 1977, has entered into written agreements for the lease of premises it owns
to charitable organizations for the conducting of more than two bingo sessions
per calendar week on the premises, may continue to lease the premises to those
charitable organizations, provided that no more than four sessions are
conducted per calendar week, that the lessor organization or person has
notified the Attorney General in writing of the organizations that will conduct
the sessions and the days of the week and the times of the day on which the
sessions will be conducted, that the initial lease entered into with each
organization that will conduct the sessions was filed with the Attorney General
prior to December 6, 1977, and that each organization that will conduct the
sessions was issued a license to conduct bingo games by the Attorney General
prior to December 6, 1977.
   (f)   This section does not prohibit a bingo licensed charitable
organization or a game operator from giving any person an instant bingo ticket
as a prize.
   (g)   Whoever violates division (a)(2) of this section is guilty of
illegally conducting a bingo game, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law. Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (a)(1), (a)(3), (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(3), (c)(1) to (c)(11), or (d) of
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a violation of division (a)(1), (a)(3), (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)
(3), (c)(1) to (c)(11), or (d) of this section, a violation of division (a)(1),
(a)(3), (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(3), (c)(1) to (c)(11), or (d) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. Whoever violates division (c)(12) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of division (c)(12) of this
section, a violation of division (c)(12) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.09)
§ 630.07 MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS BY CHARITABLE ORGANIZATIONS.
   (a)   No charitable organization that conducts bingo or a game of chance
pursuant to R.C. § 2915.02(D), or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, shall fail to maintain the following records for at least three
years from the date on which the bingo or game of chance is conducted:
      (1)   An itemized list of the gross receipts of each bingo session, each
game of instant bingo by serial number, each electronic instant bingo game by
serial number, each raffle, each punch board game, and each game of chance, and
an itemized list of the gross profits of each game of instant bingo by serial
number and each electronic instant bingo game by serial number;
      (2)   An itemized list of all expenses, other than prizes, that are
incurred in conducting bingo, the name of each person to whom the expenses are
paid, and a receipt for all of the expenses;
      (3)   A list of all prizes awarded during each bingo session, each
raffle, each punch board game, and each game of chance conducted by the
charitable organization, the total prizes awarded from each game of instant
bingo by serial number and each electronic instant bingo game by serial number,
and the name, address, and social security number of all persons who are
winners of prizes of $600 or more in value;
      (4)   An itemized list of the recipients of the net profit of bingo or
game of chance, including the name and address of each recipient to whom the
money is distributed, and if the organization uses the net profit of bingo, or
the money or assets received from a game of chance, for any charitable or other
purpose set forth in R.C. §§ 2915.01(V), 2915.02(D) or 2915.101, a list of each
purpose and an itemized list of each expenditure for each purpose;
      (5)   The number of persons who participate in any bingo session or game
of chance that is conducted by the charitable organization;
      (6)   A list of receipts from the sale of food and beverages by the
charitable organization or one of its auxiliary units or societies, if the
receipts were excluded from “gross receipts” under R.C. § 2915.01(T);
      (7)   An itemized list of all expenses incurred at each bingo session,
each raffle, each punch board game or each game of instant bingo or electronic
instant bingo conducted by the charitable organization in the sale of food and
beverages by the charitable organization or by an auxiliary unit or society of
the charitable organization, the name of each person to whom the expenses are
paid, and a receipt for all of the expenses.
   (b)   A charitable organization shall keep the records that it is required
to maintain pursuant to division (a) of this section at its principal place of
business in this state or at its headquarters in this state and shall notify
the Attorney General of the location at which those records are kept.
   (c)   The gross profit from each bingo session or game described in division
(1) or (2) of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01 shall be deposited
into a checking account devoted exclusively to the bingo session or game.
Payments for allowable expenses incurred in conducting the bingo session or
game and payments to recipients of some or all of the net profit of the bingo
session or game shall be made only by checks or electronic fund transfers drawn
on the bingo session or game account.
   (d)   Each charitable organization shall conduct and record an inventory of
all of its bingo supplies as of the first day of November of each year.
   (e)   The Attorney General may adopt rules in accordance with R.C. Chapter
119 that establish standards of accounting, record keeping and reporting to
ensure that gross receipts from bingo or games of chance are properly accounted
for.
   (f)   A distributor shall maintain, for a period of three years after the
date of its sale or other provision, a record of each instance of its selling
or otherwise providing to another person bingo supplies for use in this state.
The record shall include all of the following for each instance:
      (1)   The name of the manufacturer from which the distributor purchased
the bingo supplies and the date of the purchase;
      (2)   The name and address of the charitable organization or other
distributor to which the bingo supplies were sold or otherwise provided;
      (3)   A description that clearly identifies the bingo supplies;
      (4)   Invoices that include the nonrepeating serial numbers of all paper
bingo cards and sheets and all instant bingo deals sold or otherwise provided
to each charitable organization.
   (g)   A manufacturer shall maintain, for a period of three years after the
date of its sale or other provision, a record of each instance of its selling
or otherwise providing bingo supplies for use in this state. The record shall
include all of the following for each instance:
      (1)   The name and address of the distributor to whom the bingo supplies
were sold or otherwise provided;
      (2)   A description that clearly identifies the bingo supplies, including
serial numbers;
      (3)   Invoices that include the nonrepeating serial numbers of all paper
bingo cards and sheets and all instant bingo deals sold or otherwise provided
to each distributor.
   (h)   (1)   The Attorney General or any law enforcement agency may do all of
the following:
         A.   Investigate any charitable organization, distributor, or
manufacturer or any officer, agent, trustee, member, or employee of the
organization, distributor, or manufacturer;
         B.   Examine the accounts and records of the charitable organization,
distributor, or manufacturer or of any officer, agent, trustee, member, or
employee of the organization, distributor, or manufacturer;
         C.   Conduct inspections, audits and observations of bingo or games of
chance;
         D.   Conduct inspections of the premises where bingo or games of
chance are conducted or where bingo supplies are manufactured or distributed;
         E.   Take any other necessary and reasonable action to determine if a
violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 has occurred
and to determine whether R.C. § 2915.11, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, has been complied with.
      (2)   If any law enforcement agency has reasonable grounds to believe
that a charitable organization, distributor, or manufacturer or an officer,
agent, trustee, member, or employee of the organization, distributor, or
manufacturer has violated any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915,
the law enforcement agency may proceed by action in the proper court to enforce
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915, provided that the law enforcement agency
shall give written notice to the Attorney General when commencing an action as
described in this division.
   (i)   No person shall destroy, alter, conceal, withhold, or deny access to
any accounts or records of a charitable organization, distributor, or
manufacturer that have been requested for examination, or obstruct, impede, or
interfere with any inspection, audit, or observation of bingo or a game of
chance, of premises where bingo or a game of chance is conducted, or of
premises where bingo supplies are manufactured or distributed, or refuse to
comply with any reasonable request of, or obstruct, impede, or interfere with
any other reasonable action undertaken by, the Attorney General or a law
enforcement agency pursuant to division (h) of this section.
   (j)   Whoever violates division (a) or (i) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2915.10)
§ 630.08 QUALIFICATIONS OF BINGO GAME OPERATOR.
   (a)   No person shall be a bingo game operator unless the person is 18 years
of age or older.
   (b)   No person who has been convicted of a felony or a gambling offense in
any jurisdiction shall be a bingo game operator.
   (c)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. Whoever violates division (b) of this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2915.11)
§ 630.09 EXEMPTION FOR BINGO GAMES CONDUCTED FOR AMUSEMENT.
   (a)   Sections
630.06 to
630.13 and
630.15 do not apply to bingo games that are conducted for the purpose of
amusement only. A bingo game is conducted for the purpose of amusement only if
it complies with all of the requirements specified in either division (a)(1) or
(a)(2) of this section.
      (1)   A.   The participants do not pay any money or any other thing of
value, including an admission fee or any fee, for bingo cards or sheets,
objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in playing bingo, for the
privilege of participating in the bingo game, or to defray any costs of the
game, or pay tips or make donations during or immediately before or after the
bingo game.
         B.   All prizes awarded during the course of the game are non-
monetary, and in the form of merchandise, goods or entitlement to goods or
services only, and the total value of all prizes awarded during the game is
less than $100.00.
         C.   No commission, wages, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity or
other form of compensation, either directly or indirectly, and regardless of
the source, is paid to any bingo game operator for work or labor performed at
the site of the bingo game.
         D.   The bingo game is not conducted either during or within ten hours
of any of the following:
            1.   A bingo session during which a charitable bingo game is
conducted pursuant to R.C. §§ 2915.07 through 2915.11 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
            2.   A scheme or game of chance, or bingo described in R.C. §
2915.01(O)(2).
         E.   The number of players participating in the bingo game does not
exceed 50.
      (2)   A.   The participants do not pay money or any other thing of value
as an admission fee, and no participant is charged more than $0.25 to purchase
a bingo card or sheet, objects to cover the spaces or other devices used in
playing bingo.
         B.   The total amount of money paid by all of the participants for
bingo cards or sheets, objects to cover the spaces or other devices used in
playing bingo does not exceed $100.00.
         C.   All of the money paid for bingo cards or sheets, objects to cover
spaces or other devices used in playing bingo is used only to pay winners
monetary and nonmonetary prizes and to provide refreshments.
         D.   The total value of all prizes awarded during the game does not
exceed $100.00.
         E.   No commission, wages, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity or
other form of compensation, either directly or indirectly, and regardless of
the source, is paid to any bingo game operator for work or labor performed at
the site of the bingo game.
         F.   The bingo game is not conducted during or within ten hours of
either of the following:
            1.   A bingo session during which a charitable bingo game is
conducted pursuant to R.C. §§ 2915.07 through 2915.15 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance;
            2.   A scheme of chance or a game of chance, or bingo described in
R.C. § 2915.01(O)(2).
         G.   All of the participants reside at the premises where the bingo
game is conducted.
         H.   The bingo games are conducted on different days of the week and
not more than twice in a calendar week.
   (b)   The Attorney General or any local law enforcement agency may
investigate the conduct of a bingo game that purportedly is conducted for
purposes of amusement only if there is reason to believe that the purported
amusement bingo game does not comply with the requirements of either division
(a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section. A local law enforcement agency may proceed by
action in the proper court to enforce this section if the local law enforcement
agency gives written notice to the Attorney General when commencing the action.
(R.C. § 2915.12)
§ 630.10 PROHIBITIONS WHERE INSTANT BINGO GAME IS CONDUCTED.
   (a)   No charitable organization that conducts instant bingo shall do any of
the following:
      (1)   Fail to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 2915.09(A)(1), (A)
(2) and (A)(3), or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   Conduct instant bingo unless either of the following applies:
         A.   That organization is, and has received from the Internal Revenue
Service a determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the
organization is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a), is
described in IRC 501(c)(3), is a charitable organization as defined in R.C. §
2915.01, is in good standing in the state pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08, and is in
compliance with R.C. Chapter 1716;
         B.   That organization is, and has received from the Internal Revenue
Service a determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the
organization is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a), is
described in IRC 501(c)(7), (c)(8), (c)(10) or (c)(19) or is a veteran’s
organization described in IRC 501(c)(4), and conducts instant bingo under R.C.
§ 2915.13.
      (3)   Conduct instant bingo on any day, at any time, or at any premises
not specified on the organization’s license issued pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08;
      (4)   Permit any person whom the organization knows or should have known
has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any jurisdiction to be a
bingo game operator in the conduct of instant bingo;
      (5)   Purchase or lease supplies used to conduct instant bingo or punch
board games from any person except a distributor licensed under R.C. §
2915.081;
      (6)   Sell or provide any instant bingo ticket or card for a price
different from the price printed on it by the manufacturer on either the
instant bingo ticket or card or on the game flare;
      (7)   Sell an instant bingo ticket or card to a person under 18 years of
age;
      (8)   Fail to keep unsold instant bingo tickets or cards for less than
three years;
      (9)   Pay any compensation to a bingo game operator for conducting
instant bingo that is conducted by the organization or for preparing, selling
or serving food or beverages at the site of the instant bingo game, permit any
auxiliary unit or society of the organization to pay compensation to any bingo
game operator who prepares, sells or serves food or beverages at an instant
bingo game conducted by the organization, or permit any auxiliary unit or
society of the organization to prepare, sell or serve food or beverages at an
instant bingo game conducted by the organization, if the auxiliary unit or
society pays any compensation to the bingo game operators who prepare, sell or
serve the food or beverages;
      (10)   Pay fees to any person for any services performed in relation to
an instant bingo game, except as provided in R.C. § 2915.093(D);
      (11)   Pay fees to any person who provides refreshments to the
participants in an instant bingo game;
      (12)   A.   Allow instant bingo tickets or cards to be sold to bingo game
operators at a premises at which the organization sells instant bingo tickets
or cards or to be sold to employees of a D permit holder who are working at a
premises at which instant bingo tickets or cards are sold;
         B.   Division (a)(12)A. of this section does not prohibit a licensed
charitable organization or a bingo game operator from giving any person an
instant bingo ticket as a prize in place of a cash prize won by a participant
in an instant bingo game. In no case shall an instant bingo ticket or card be
sold or provided for a price different from the price printed on it by the
manufacturer on either the instant bingo ticket or card or on the game flare.
      (13)   Fail to display its bingo license, and the serial numbers of the
deal of instant bingo tickets or cards to be sold, conspicuously at each
premises at which it sells instant bingo tickets or cards;
      (14)   Possess a deal of instant bingo tickets or cards that was not
purchased from a distributor licensed under R.C. § 2915.081 as reflected on an
invoice issued by the distributor that contains all of the information required
by R.C. § 2915.10(E);
      (15)   Fail, once it opens a deal of instant bingo tickets or cards, to
continue to sell the tickets or cards in that deal until the tickets or cards
with the top two highest tiers of prizes in that deal are sold;
      (16)   Possess bingo supplies that were not obtained in accordance with
R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (b)   A charitable organization may purchase, lease, or use instant bingo
ticket dispensers to sell instant bingo tickets or cards.
   (c)   Pursuant to R.C. § 2915.091(C), the Attorney General may adopt rules
in accordance with R.C. Chapter 119 that govern the conduct of instant bingo by
charitable organizations.
   (d)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section or a rule adopted under
division (c) of this section is guilty of illegal instant bingo conduct. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, illegal instant bingo conduct is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of a violation of division (a) of this section or of such a rule adopted under
division (c) of this section, illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.091)
§ 630.11 RAFFLE DRAWINGS.
   (a)   (1)   Subject to division (a)(2) of this section, a person or entity
that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a) and is described
in IRC 501(c)(3), 501(c)(4), 501(c)(6), 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10), or
501(c)(19) may conduct a raffle to raise money for the person or entity and
does not need a license to conduct bingo in order to conduct a raffle drawing
that is not for profit.
      (2)   If a person or entity that is described in division (a)(1) of this
section, but that is not also described in IRC 501(c)(3), conducts a raffle,
the person or entity shall distribute at least 50% of the net profit from the
raffle to a charitable purpose described in R.C. § 2915.01(V) or to a
department or agency of the federal government, the state, or any political
subdivision.
   (b)   A chamber of commerce may conduct not more than one raffle per year to
raise money for the chamber of commerce.
   (c)   Except as provided in division (a) or (b) of this section, no person
shall conduct a raffle drawing that is for profit or a raffle drawing that is
not for profit.
   (d)   Whoever violates division (c) of this section is guilty of illegal
conduct of a raffle. Except as otherwise provided in this division, illegal
conduct of a raffle is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of division (c) of this section,
illegal conduct of a raffle is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2915.092)
§ 630.12 INSTANT BINGO OTHER THAN AT BINGO SESSIONS.
   (a)   As used in this section, “retail income from all commercial activity”
means the income that a person receives from the provision of goods, services
or activities that are provided at the location where instant bingo other than
at a bingo session is conducted, including the sale of instant bingo tickets. A
religious organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC
501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3), at not more than one location at which
it conducts its charitable programs, may include donations from its members and
guests as retail income.
   (b)   (1)   If a charitable instant bingo organization conducts instant
bingo other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued under R.C.
§ 2915.08, the charitable instant bingo organization shall enter into a written
contract with the owner or lessor of the location at which the instant bingo is
conducted to allow the owner or lessor to assist in the conduct of instant
bingo other than at a bingo session, identify each location where the instant
bingo other than at a bingo session is being conducted, and identify the owner
or lessor of each location.
      (2)   A charitable instant bingo organization that conducts instant bingo
other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued under R.C. §
2915.08 is not required to enter into a written contract with the owner or
lessor of the location at which the instant bingo is conducted, provided that
the owner or lessor is not assisting in the conduct of the instant bingo other
than at a bingo session and provided that the conduct of the instant bingo
other than at a bingo session at that location is not more than five days per
calendar year and not more than ten hours per day.
   (c)   Except as provided in division (f) of this section, no charitable
instant bingo organization shall conduct instant bingo other than at a bingo
session at a location where the primary source of retail income from all
commercial activity at that location is the sale of instant bingo tickets.
   (d)   (1)   The owner or lessor of a location that enters into a contract
pursuant to division (b) of this section shall pay the full gross profit to the
charitable instant bingo organization, in return for the deal of instant bingo
tickets. The owner or lessor may retain the money that the owner or lessor
receives for selling the instant bingo tickets, provided, however, that after
the deal has been sold, the owner or lessor shall pay to the charitable instant
bingo organization the value of any unredeemed instant bingo prizes remaining
in the deal of instant bingo tickets. As used in this division, “full gross
profit” means the amount by which the total receipts of all instant bingo
tickets, if the deal has been sold in full, exceeds the amount that would be
paid out if all prizes were redeemed.
      (2)   The charitable instant bingo organization shall pay 6% of the total
gross receipts of any deal of instant bingo tickets for the purpose of
reimbursing the owner or lessor for expenses described in this division.
      (3)   As used in this division, “expenses” means those items provided for
in R.C. § 2915.01(GG)(4), (GG)(5), (GG)(6), (GG)(7), (GG)(8), (GG)(12), and
(GG)(13) and that percentage of the owner’s or lessor’s rent for the location
where instant bingo is conducted. Expenses, in the aggregate, shall not exceed
6% of the total gross receipts of any deal of instant bingo tickets.
   (e)   A charitable instant bingo organization shall provide the Attorney
General with all of the following information:
      (1)   That the charitable instant bingo organization has terminated a
contract entered into pursuant to division (b) of this section with an owner or
lessor of a location;
      (2)   That the charitable instant bingo organization has entered into a
written contract pursuant to division (b) of this section with a new owner or
lessor of a location;
      (3)   That the charitable instant bingo organization is aware of conduct
by the owner or lessor of a location at which instant bingo is conducted that
is in violation of R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (f)   Division (c) of this section does not apply to a volunteer
firefighter’s organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under
IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3), that conducts instant bingo other
than at a bingo session on the premises where the organization conducts
firefighter training, that has conducted instant bingo continuously for at
least five years prior to July 1, 2003, and that, during each of those five
years, had gross receipts of at least $1,500,000.
(R.C. § 2915.093)
   (g)   (1)   Subject to the requirements of R.C. §§ 2915.14 and 2915.15
concerning electronic instant bingo, a veteran's organization, a fraternal
organization, or a sporting organization authorized to conduct a bingo session
pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2915 may conduct instant bingo, electronic instant
bingo, or both other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued
under R.C. § 2915.08 if all of the following apply:
         A.   The veteran's organization, fraternal organization or sporting
organization limits the sale of instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to 12
hours during any day, provided that the sale does not begin earlier than 10:00
a.m. and ends not later than 2:00 a.m.
         B.   The veteran's organization, fraternal organization or sporting
organization limits the sale of instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to
its own premises and to its own members and invited guests.
         C.   The veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization is raising money for an organization that is described in IRC 509
(a)(1), (a)(2) or (a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an organization
that maintains its principal place of business in this state, that is exempt
from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3),
and that is in good standing in this state and executes a written contract with
that organization as required in division (g)(2) of this section.
      (2)   If a veteran's organization, fraternal organization or sporting
organization authorized to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant bingo
pursuant to division (g)(1) of this section is raising money for another
organization that is described in IRC 509(a)(1), (a)(2) or (a)(3) and is either
a governmental unit or an organization that maintains its principal place of
business in this state, that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC
501(a) and described in IRC 501(c), and that is in good standing in this state,
the veteran's organization, fraternal organization, or sporting organization
shall execute a written contract with the organization that is described in IRC
509(a)(1), (a)(2) or (a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an
organization that maintains its principal place of business in this state, that
is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC
501(c), and that is in good standing in this state in order to conduct instant
bingo or electronic instant bingo. That contract shall include a statement of
the percentage of the net proceeds that the veteran's, fraternal or sporting
organization will be distributing to the charitable organization that is
described in IRC 509(a)(1), (a)(2) or (a)(3) and is either a governmental unit
or an organization that maintains its principal place of business in this
state, that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a) and
described in IRC 501(c), and that is in good standing in this state.
      (3)   A.   If a veteran's organization, fraternal organization or
sporting organization authorized to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant
bingo pursuant to division (g)(1) of this section has been issued a liquor
permit under R.C. Chapter 4303, that permit may be subject to suspension,
revocation or cancellation if the veteran's organization, fraternal
organization or sporting organization violates a provision of this chapter or
R.C. Chapter 2915.
         B.   No veteran's organization, fraternal organization or sporting
organization that enters into a written contract pursuant to division (g)(2) of
this section shall violate any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915,
or permit, aid or abet any other person in violating any provision of this
chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
      (4)   A veteran's organization, fraternal organization or sporting
organization shall give all required proceeds earned from the conduct of
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to the organization with which the
veteran's organization, fraternal organization or sporting organization has
entered into a written contract.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (g) of this section is guilty of illegal
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conduct. Except as otherwise provided
in this division, illegal instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conduct is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been
convicted of a violation of division (g) of this section, illegal instant bingo
or electronic instant bingo conduct is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.13)
§ 630.13 RESTRICTIONS ON OWNER OR LESSOR OF LOCATION AT INSTANT BINGO.
   (a)   No owner or lessor of a location shall assist a charitable instant
bingo organization in the conduct of instant bingo other than at a bingo
session at that location unless the owner or lessor has entered into a written
contract, as described in R.C. § 2915.093, with the charitable instant bingo
organization to assist in the conduct of instant bingo other than at a bingo
session.
   (b)   The location of the lessor or owner shall be designated as a location
where the charitable instant bingo organization conducts instant bingo other
than at a bingo session.
   (c)   No owner or lessor of a location that enters into a written contract
as prescribed in division (a) of this section shall violate any provision of
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915, or permit, aid or abet any other person in
violating any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (d)   No owner or lessor of a location that enters into a written contract
as prescribed in division (a) of this section shall violate the terms of the
contract.
   (e)   (1)   Whoever violates division (c) or (d) of this section is guilty
of illegal instant bingo conduct. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, illegal instant bingo conduct is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of division (c) or
(d) of this section, illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If an owner or lessor of a location knowingly, intentionally, or
recklessly violates division (c) or (d) of this section, any license that the
owner or lessor holds for the retail sale of any goods on the owner’s or
lessor’s premises that is issued by the state or a political subdivision is
subject to suspension, revocation or payment of a monetary penalty at the
request of the Attorney General.
(R.C. § 2915.094)
§ 630.14 SKILL-BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINES; PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (a)   No person shall give to another person any item described in division
(ff)(1), (ff)(2), (ff)(3) or (ff)(4) of §
630.01 in exchange for a noncash prize, toy or novelty received as a reward for
playing or operating a skill-based amusement machine or for a free or reduced-
price game won on a skill-based amusement machine.
   (b)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of skill-based
amusement machine prohibited conduct. A violation of division (a) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree for each redemption of a prize
that is involved in the violation. If the offender previously has been
convicted of a violation of division (a) of this section, a violation of that
division is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.06)
   (c)   Any regulation of skill-based amusement machines shall be governed by
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 and not by R.C. Chapter 1345.
(R.C. § 2915.061)
§ 630.15 ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO; PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (a)   No charitable organization shall conduct electronic instant bingo
unless all of the following are true:
      (1)   The organization is a veteran's organization described in R.C. §
2915.01(J), or is a fraternal organization described in R.C. § 2915.01(L), and
the organization qualified as a veteran's organization or fraternal
organization, as applicable, on or before June 30, 2021.
      (2)   The organization is a veteran's organization described in IRC 501
(c)(4) or is, and has received from the Internal Revenue Service a
determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the organization
is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a), and is described in
IRC 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10), or 501(c)(19).
      (3)   The organization has not conducted a raffle in violation of R.C. §
2915.092(B) using an electronic raffle machine, as described in Ohio Veterans
and Fraternal Charitable Coalition v. DeWine, Case No. 13-CV-13610 (C.P.
Franklin Co. February 23, 2018), at any time on or after January 1, 2022.
   (b)   No charitable organization that conducts electronic instant bingo
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Possess an electronic instant bingo system that was not obtained in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 2915 or with any rule adopted under R.C. Chapter
2915;
      (2)   Conduct electronic instant bingo on any day, at any time, or on any
premises not specified on the organization's type II or type III license issued
under R.C. § 2915.08;
      (3)   Hold more than one valid license to conduct electronic instant
bingo at any one time;
      (4)   Conduct electronic instant bingo on more than one premises or on
any premises other than the charitable organization's principal place of
business;
      (5)   Operate more than ten electronic bingo systems at the premises on
which the charitable organization conducts electronic instant bingo under its
license;
      (6)   Fail to display both of the following conspicuously at the premises
on which the charitable organization conducts electronic instant bingo:
         A.   The charitable organization's bingo license;
         B.   The serial number of each deal of electronic instant bingo
tickets being sold.
      (7)   Permit any person the charitable organization knows, or should have
known, to be under 18 years of age to play electronic instant bingo;
      (8)   Sell or provide to any person an electronic instant bingo ticket
for a price different from the price displayed on the game flare for that deal,
except that the charitable organization may give a participant who wins an
electronic instant bingo game an electronic instant bingo ticket as a prize in
place of a cash prize;
      (9)   Fail, once an electronic instant bingo deal is begun, to continue
to sell tickets in that deal until all prizes have been awarded;
      (10)   Permit any person whom the organization knows, or should have
known, has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any jurisdiction
to be a bingo game operator in the conduct of electronic instant bingo;
      (11)   Permit a bingo game operator to play electronic instant bingo;
      (12)   A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (b)(12)B. of this
section, pay compensation to a bingo game operator for conducting electronic
instant bingo.
         B.   Division (b)(12)A. of this section does not prohibit an employee
of a veteran's organization or fraternal organization from redeeming electronic
instant bingo tickets or vouchers for the organization's members or invited
guests, so long as no portion of the employee's compensation is paid from any
bingo receipts.
      (13)   Pay consulting fees to any person in relation to electronic
instant bingo.
   (c)   No person shall sell, offer to sell, or otherwise provide or offer to
provide an electronic instant bingo system to any person for use in this
municipality unless the electronic instant bingo system has been approved under
R.C. § 2915.15.
   (d)   Whoever knowingly violates division (a), (b), or (c) of this section
or a rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.14(D) is guilty of illegal electronic
instant bingo conduct. Illegal electronic instant bingo conduct is a
misdemeanor of the first degree, except that if the offender previously has
been convicted of a violation of division (a) or (b) of this section, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or state law, or of a rule adopted
under R.C. § 2915.14(D), illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.14)
CHAPTER 636: OFFENSES RELATING TO PERSONS
Section
636.001   Definitions
636.01   Negligent homicide
636.02   Assault
636.03   Negligent assault
636.04   Aggravated menacing
636.05   Menacing by stalking
636.06   Menacing
636.07   Unlawful restraint
636.08   Reserved
636.09   Reserved
636.10   Coercion
636.11   Nonsupport of dependents
636.12   Endangering children
636.13   Interference with custody
636.14   Contributing to the unruliness or delinquency of a child
636.15   Reserved
636.16   Threatening or harassing telecommunications
636.17   Placing harmful substance or objects in food or confection
636.18   Domestic violence
636.19   Safety of crowds attending live entertainment performances
636.20   Hazing
636.21   Illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products; transaction scans
636.22   Ethnic intimidation
636.23   Intimidation in connection with housing
636.24   Failing to provide for a functionally impaired person
636.25   Failure to perform viability testing
636.26   Unlawful collection of bodily substances
Cross-reference:
   Definitions generally, see §
606.01
   Disorderly conduct, see §
648.04
   Drugs, see
Ch. 624
   False report of child abuse or neglect, see §
608.02
   Personal accountability for organizational conduct, see §
606.10
   “Physical harm to persons” defined, see §
606.01
   Sales of alcohol to underage persons; prohibitions and misrepresentations,
see §
612.02
   “Serious physical harm to persons” defined, see §
606.01
   Sex related offenses, see
Ch. 666
   Vehicular homicide and vehicular manslaughter, see §
434.11
Statutory reference:
   Juvenile Court, see R.C. Ch. 2151
   Parents’ liability for destructive acts of their children, see R.C. §
3109.09
   Shelters for victims of domestic violence, see R.C. § 3113.33 et seq.
§ 636.001 DEFINITIONS.
   (a)   For the purpose of this chapter and any other provision of these
Codified Ordinances, the following definitions shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Another’s unborn” or “other person’s unborn.” A member of the
species homo sapiens who is or was carried in the womb of another during a
period that begins with fertilization and that continues unless and until live
birth occurs.
      (2)   “Unlawful termination of another’s pregnancy.” Causing the death of
an unborn member of the species homo sapiens who is or was carried in the womb
of another, as a result of injuries inflicted during the period that begins
with fertilization and that continues unless and until live birth occurs.
   (b)   Notwithstanding division (a) of this section, in no case shall the
definitions of the terms “another’s unborn”, “other person’s unborn” and
“unlawful termination of another’s pregnancy” that are set forth in division
(a) of this section be applied or construed in any of the following manners:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (b)(1) of this section, in
a manner so that the offense prohibits or is construed as prohibiting any
pregnant woman or her physician from performing an abortion with the consent of
the pregnant woman, with the consent of the pregnant woman implied by law in a
medical emergency, or with the approval of one otherwise authorized by law to
consent to medical treatment on behalf of the pregnant woman. An abortion that
violates the conditions described in the immediately preceding sentence may be
punished as any violation of R.C. § 2903.01, 2903.02, 2903.03, 2903.04,
2903.05, 2903.06, 2903.08, 2903.11, 2903.12, 2903.13, 2903.14, 2903.21 or
2903.22, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, as applicable. An
abortion that does not violate the conditions described in the second
immediately preceding sentence but that does violate R.C. § 2919.12, 2919.13
(B), 2919.15, 2919.151, 2919.17 or 2919.18, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, may be punished as a violation of the section, as
applicable.
      (2)   In a manner so that the offense is applied or is construed as
applying to a woman based on an act or omission of the woman that occurs while
she is or was pregnant and that results in any of the following:
         A.   Her delivery of a stillborn baby.
         B.   Her causing, in any other manner, the death in utero of a viable,
unborn human that she is carrying.
         C.   Her causing the death of her child who is born alive but who dies
from one or more injuries that are sustained while the child is a viable,
unborn human.
         D.   Her causing her child who is born alive to sustain one or more
injuries while the child is a viable, unborn human.
         E.   Her causing, threatening to cause, or attempting to cause, in any
other manner, an injury, illness or other psychological illness or condition,
regardless of its duration or gravity, to a viable, unborn human that she is
carrying.
(R.C. § 2903.09)
§ 636.01 NEGLIGENT HOMICIDE.
   (a)   No person shall negligently cause the death of another or the unlawful
termination of another’s pregnancy by means of a deadly weapon or dangerous
ordnance, as defined in R.C. § 2923.11.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of negligent homicide, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2903.05)
Statutory reference:
   Reckless homicide, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.041
§ 636.02 ASSAULT.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly cause or attempt to cause physical harm to
another or to another’s unborn.
   (b)   No person shall recklessly cause serious physical harm to another or
to another’s unborn.
   (c)   Whoever violates division (a) or (b) of this section is guilty of
assault. Except as provided in R.C. § 2903.13(C), assault is a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
   (d)   If an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to assault when it
is a misdemeanor also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a specification as
described in R.C. § 2941.1423 (victim of the offense was a woman whom the
defendant knew was pregnant at the time of the offense) that was included in
the indictment, count in the indictment or information charging the offense,
the court shall sentence the offender to a mandatory jail term as provided in
R.C. § 2929.24(G).
(R.C. § 2903.13)
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated and felonious assault, see R.C. § 2903.11 and 2903.12
   Aggravated vehicular assault, felony, see R.C. § 2903.08
   Felony offenses: assaulting functionally impaired person, peace officer,
investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation,
firefighter, person performing emergency medical service, officer or employee
of a public children services agency or private child placing agency; assault
at a correctional institution; assault on school officials and school bus
drivers; health care professional, worker or security guard at a hospital under
certain circumstances; judge, magistrate, prosecutor or court official or
employee under certain circumstances, see R.C. § 2903.13(C)
   Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.15
   Persons who may seek relief under anti-stalking protection order; ex parte
orders, see R.C. § 2903.214
   Protection order as pretrial condition of release, see R.C. § 2903.213
§ 636.03 NEGLIGENT ASSAULT.
   (a)   No person shall negligently, by means of a deadly weapon or dangerous
ordnance as defined in R.C. § 2923.11, cause physical harm to another or to
another’s unborn.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of negligent assault, a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 2903.14)
§ 636.04 AGGRAVATED MENACING.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly cause another to believe that the offender
will cause serious physical harm to the person or property of the other person,
such other person’s unborn, or a member of that other person’s immediate
family. In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief that the
offender will cause serious physical harm to the person or property of the
other person, the other person’s unborn, or a member of the other person’s
immediate family, the other person’s belief may be based on words or conduct of
the offender that are directed at or identify a corporation, association, or
other organization that employs the other person or to which the other person
belongs.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of aggravated menacing. Except
as otherwise provided in this division (b), aggravated menacing is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the victim of the offense is an officer or
employee of a public children services agency or a private child placing agency
and the offense relates to the officer’s or employee’s performance or
anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties, aggravated
menacing is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law or, if the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to an offense of
violence, the victim of that prior offense was an officer or employee of a
public children services agency or private child placing agency, and that prior
offense related to the officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated
performance of official responsibilities or duties, a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
   (c)   As used in this section, “Organization” includes an entity that is a
governmental employer.
(R.C. § 2903.21)
§ 636.05 MENACING BY STALKING.
   (a)   Prohibited Conduct.
      (1)   A.   No person by engaging in a pattern of conduct shall knowingly
cause another person to believe that the offender will cause physical harm to
the other person or a family or household member of the other person or cause
mental distress to the other person or a family or household member of the
other person. In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief that
the offender will cause physical harm to the other person or the other person’s
family or household member or mental distress to the other person or the other
person’s family or household member, the other person’s belief or mental
distress may be based on words or conduct of the offender that are directed at
or identify a corporation, association, or other organization that employs the
other person or to which the other person belongs.
         B.   No person, through the use of any form of written communication
or any electronic method of remotely transferring information, including but
not limited to any computer, computer network, computer program, computer
system, or telecommunication device, shall post a message or use any
intentionally written or verbal graphic gesture with purpose to do either of
the following:
            1.   Violate division (a)(1)A. of this section;
            2.   Urge or incite another to commit a violation of division (a)
(1)A. of this section.
         C.   No person, with a sexual motivation, shall violate division (a)
(1)A. or (a)(1)B. of this section.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (a)(1) of this section is guilty of
menacing by stalking.
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (a)(2)B. of this
section, menacing by stalking is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         B.   Menacing by stalking is a felony, to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law, if any of the following applies:
            1.   The offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 2903.211 or a violation of R.C. § 2911.211, or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to either of these offenses.
            2.   In committing the offense under division (a)(1)A., (a)(1)B. or
(a)(1)C. of this section, the offender made a threat of physical harm to or
against the victim, or as a result of an offense committed under division (a)
(1)B. or (a)(1)C. of this section, a third person induced by the offender’s
posted message made a threat of physical harm to or against the victim.
            3.   In committing the offense under division (a)(1)A., (a)(1)B. or
(a)(1)C. of this section, the offender trespassed on the land or premises where
the victim lives, is employed or attends school, or as a result of an offense
committed under division (a)(1)B. or (a)(1)C. of this section, a third person
induced by the offender’s posted message trespassed on the land or premises
where the victim lives, is employed or attends school.
            4.   The victim of the offense is a minor.
            5.   The offender has a history of violence towards the victim or
any other person or a history of other violent acts towards the victim or any
other person.
            6.   While committing the offense under division (a)(1)A. of this
section or a violation of division (a)(1)C. of this section based on conduct in
violation of division (a)(1)A. of this section, the offender had a deadly
weapon on or about the offender’s person or under the offender’s control.
Division (a)(2)B.6. of this section does not apply in determining the penalty
for a violation of division (a)(1)B. of this section or a violation of division
(a)(1)C. of this section based on conduct in violation of division (a)(1)B. of
this section.
            7.   At the time of the commission of the offense, the offender was
the subject of a protection order issued under R.C. § 2903.213 or 2903.214,
regardless of whether or not the person to be protected under the order is the
victim of the offense or another person.
            8.   In committing the offense under division (a)(1)A., (a)(1)B. or
(a)(1)C. of this section, the offender caused serious physical harm to the
premises at which the victim resides, to the real property on which that
premises is located, or to any personal property located on that premises, or
as a result of an offense committed under division (a)(1)B. of this section or
an offense committed under division (a)(1)C. of this section based on a
violation of division (a)(1)B. of this section, a third person induced by the
offender’s posted message caused serious physical harm to that premises, that
real property or any personal property on that premises.
            9.   Prior to committing the offense, the offender had been
determined to represent a substantial risk of physical harm to others as
manifested by evidence of then-recent homicidal or other violent behavior,
evidence of then-recent threats that placed another in reasonable fear of
violent behavior and serious harm, or other evidence of then-present
dangerousness.
            10.   The victim of the offense is an officer or employee of a
public children services agency or a private child placing agency and the
offense relates to the officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated
performance of official responsibilities or duties.
            11.   The offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to an offense of violence, the victim of that prior offense was an
officer or employee of a public children services agency or private child
placing agency, and that prior offense related to the officer’s or employee’s
performance or anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties.
      (3)   R.C. § 2919.271 applies in relation to a defendant charged with a
violation of this section.
      (4)   For the purpose of division (a) of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         A.   “Computer,” “computer network,” “computer program,” “computer
system,” and “telecommunications device.” Have the same meanings as in R.C. §
2913.01.
         B.   “Emergency facility person.” The singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
         C.   “Emergency medical services person.”The singular of “emergency
medical services personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
         D.   “Family or household member.” Means any of the following:
            1.   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
person against whom the act prohibited in division (a)(1) of this section is
committed:
               a.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse, or a former spouse
of the person;
               b.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the person, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the person;
               c.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse,
or former spouse of the person, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
person.
            2.   The natural parent of any child of whom the person against
whom the act prohibited in division (a)(1) of this section is committed is the
other natural parent or is the putative other natural parent.
         E.   “Mental distress.” Any of the following:
            1.   Any mental illness or condition that involves some temporary
substantial incapacity;
            2.   Any mental illness or condition that would normally require
psychiatric treatment, psychological treatment or other mental health services,
whether or not any person requested or received psychiatric treatment,
psychological treatment, or other mental health services.
         F.   “Organization.” Includes an entity that is a governmental
employer.
         G.   “Pattern of conduct.” Two or more actions or incidents closely
related in time, whether or not there has been a prior conviction based on any
of those actions or incidents, or two or more actions or incidents closely
related in time, whether or not there has been a prior conviction based on any
of those actions or incidents, directed at one or more persons employed by or
belonging to the same corporation, association, or other organization. Actions
or incidents that prevent, obstruct or delay the performance by a public
official, firefighter, rescuer, emergency medical services person or emergency
facility person of any authorized act within the public official’s,
firefighter’s, rescuer’s, emergency medical services person’s or emergency
facility person’s official capacity, or the posting of messages, use of
intentionally written or verbal graphic gestures, or receipt of information or
data through the use of any form of written communication or an electronic
method of remotely transferring information, including but not limited to a
computer, computer network, computer program, computer system or
telecommunications device, may constitute a “pattern of conduct”.
         H.   “Person living as a spouse.” Means a person who is living or has
lived with the person against whom the act prohibited in division (a)(1) of
this section is committed in a common law marital relationship, who otherwise
is cohabiting with that person, or who otherwise has cohabited with the person
within five years prior to the date of the alleged commission of the act in
question.
         I.   “Post a message.” Transferring, sending, posting, publishing,
disseminating or otherwise communicating, or attempting to transfer, send,
post, publish, disseminate or otherwise communicate, any message or
information, whether truthful or untruthful, about an individual, and whether
done under one’s own name, under the name of another or while impersonating
another.
         J.   “Public official.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.01.
         K.   “Sexual motivation.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2971.01.
         L.   “Third person.” In relation to conduct as described in division
(a)(1)B. of this section, an individual who is neither the offender nor the
victim of the conduct.
      (5)   The prosecution does not need to prove in a prosecution under
division (a) of this section that a person requested or received psychiatric
treatment, psychological treatment or other mental health services in order to
show that the person was caused mental distress as described in division (a)
(4)E.2. of this section.
      (6)   A.   Division (a) of this section does not apply to a person solely
because the person provided access or connection to or from an electronic
method of remotely transferring information not under that person’s control,
including having provided capabilities that are incidental to providing access
or connection to or from the electronic method of remotely transferring the
information, and that do not include the creation of the content of the
material that is the subject of the access or connection. In addition, any
person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control shall not be
liable for any action voluntarily taken in good faith to block the receipt or
transmission through its service of any information that it believes is or will
be sent in violation of division (a) of this section.
         B.   Division (a)(6)A. of this section does not create an affirmative
duty for any person providing access or connection to or from an electronic
method of remotely transferring information not under that person’s control to
block the receipt or transmission through its service of any information that
it believes is or will be sent in violation of division (a) of this section
except as otherwise provided by law.
         C.   Division (a)(6)A. of this section does not apply to a person who
conspires with a person actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of division (a) of this section or who
knowingly advertises the availability of material of that nature.
(R.C. § 2903.211)
   (b)   Protection Order. Consult R.C. § 2903.213 for current provisions
regarding protection orders, consent agreements, anti-stalking protection
orders and orders issued by a court of another state.
   (c)   Violating a Protection Order, Consent Agreement, Anti-Stalking
Protection Order or Order Issued by a Court of Another State.
      (1)   No person shall recklessly violate the terms of any of the
following:
         A.   A protection order issued or consent agreement approved pursuant
to R.C. § 2919.26 or 3113.31;
         B.   A protection order issued pursuant to R.C. § 2151.34, 2903.213 or
2903.214;
         C.   A protection order issued by a court of another state.
      (2)   A.   Whoever violates division (c) of this section is guilty of
violating a protection order.
         B.   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(2)C. or (c)(2)D. of
this section, violating a protection order is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
         C.   Violating a protection order is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the offender previously has been convicted of, pleaded
guilty to, or been adjudicated a delinquent child for any of the following:
            1.   A violation of a protection order issued or consent agreement
approved pursuant to R.C. § 2151.34, 2903.213, 2903.214, 2919.26, or 3113.31,
or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance;
            2.   Two or more violations of R.C. § 2903.21, 2903.211, 2903.22,
or 2911.211, or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
or any combination of those offenses, that involved the same person who is the
subject of the protection order or consent agreement;
            3.   One or more violations of this section, or any substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance.
         D.   If the offender violates a protection order or consent agreement
while committing a felony offense, violating a protection order is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         E.   If the protection order violated by the offender was an order
issued pursuant to R.C. § 2151.34 or 2903.214 that required electronic
monitoring of the offender pursuant to that section, the court may require in
addition to any other sentence imposed upon the offender that the offender be
electronically monitored for a period not exceeding five years by a law
enforcement agency designated by the court. If the court requires under this
division that the offender be electronically monitored, unless the court
determines that the offender is indigent, the court shall order that the
offender pay the costs of the installation of the electronic monitoring device
and the cost of monitoring the electronic monitoring device. If the court
determines that the offender is indigent and subject to the maximum amount
allowable and the rules promulgated by the Attorney General under R.C. §
2903.214, the costs of the installation of the electronic monitoring device and
the cost of monitoring the electronic monitoring device may be paid out of
funds from the reparations fund created pursuant to R.C. § 2743.191. The total
amount paid from the Reparations Fund created pursuant to R.C. § 2743.191 for
electronic monitoring under R.C. § 2151.34, 2903.214 and 2919.27 shall not
exceed $300,000 per year.
      (3)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (c)(1)C. of
this section that the protection order issued by a court of another state does
not comply with the requirements specified in 18 U.S.C. § 2265(b) for a
protection order that must be accorded full faith a credit by a court of this
state or that it is not entitled to full faith and credit under 18 U.S.C. §
2265(c).
      (4)   In a prosecution for a violation of this section, it is not
necessary for the prosecution to prove that the protection order or consent
agreement was served on the defendant if the prosecution proves that the
defendant was shown the protection order or consent agreement or a copy of
either or a judge, magistrate, or law enforcement officer informed the
defendant that a protection order or consent agreement had been issued, and
proves that the defendant recklessly violated the terms of the order or
agreement.
      (5)   As used in this section, “protection order issued by a court of
another state” means an injunction or another order issued by a criminal court
of another state for the purpose of preventing violent or threatening acts or
harassment against, contact or communication with, or physical proximity to
another person including a temporary order, and means an injunction or order of
that nature issued by a civil court of another state, including a temporary
order and a final order issued in an independent action or as a pendente lite
order in a proceeding for other relief, if the court issued it in response to a
complaint, petition or motion filed by or on behalf of a person seeking
protection. The term does not include an order for support or for custody of a
child issued pursuant to the divorce and child custody laws of another state,
except to the extent that the order for support or for custody of a child is
entitled to full faith and credit under the laws of the United States.
(R.C. § 2919.27)
§ 636.06 MENACING.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly cause another to believe that the offender
will cause physical harm to the person or property of the other person, the
other person’s unborn or a member of the other person’s immediate family. In
addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief that the offender
will cause physical harm to the person or property of the other person, the
other person’s unborn, or a member of the other person’s immediate family, the
other person’s belief may be based on words or conduct of the offender that are
directed at or identify a corporation, association, or other organization that
employs the other person or to which the other person belongs.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of menacing. Except as
otherwise provided in this division (b), menacing is a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If the victim of the offense is an officer or employee of a
public children services agency or a private child placing agency and the
offense relates to the officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated
performance of official responsibilities or duties, menacing is a misdemeanor
of the first degree or, if the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to an offense of violence, the victim of that prior offense was
an officer or employee of a public children services agency or private child
placing agency, and that prior offense related to the officer’s or employee’s
performance or anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties,
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (c)   As used in this section, “Organization” includes an entity that is a
governmental employer.
(R.C. § 2903.22)
§ 636.07 UNLAWFUL RESTRAINT.
   (a)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly restrain
another of the other person’s liberty.
   (b)   No person, without privilege to do so and with a sexual motivation,
shall knowingly restrain another of the other person’s liberty.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful restraint, a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (d)   As used in this section, “sexual motivation” has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 2971.01.
(R.C. § 2905.03)
§ 636.08 RESERVED.
§ 636.09 RESERVED.
Editor’s note: This section was formerly based on R.C. § 2905.05, Criminal
Child Enticement. The Ohio Supreme Court held that R.C. § 2905.05(A) was
unconstitutionally overbroad in violation of the First Amendment. See State v.
Romage, 138 Ohio St. 3d. 390 (2014).
§ 636.10 COERCION.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to coerce another into taking or refraining
from action concerning which the other person has a legal freedom of choice,
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Threaten to commit any offense.
      (2)   Utter or threaten any slander against any person.
      (3)   Expose or threaten to expose any matter tending to subject any
person to hatred, contempt or ridicule, or to damage any person’s personal or
business repute, or to impair any person’s credit.
      (4)   Institute or threaten criminal proceedings against any person.
      (5)   Take or withhold, or threaten to take or withhold official action,
or cause or threaten to cause official action to be taken or withheld.
   (b)   Divisions (a)(4) and (a)(5) of this section shall not be construed to
prohibit a prosecutor or court from doing any of the following in good faith
and in the interests of justice:
      (1)   Offering or agreeing to grant, or granting immunity from
prosecution pursuant to R.C. § 2945.44.
      (2)   In return for a plea of guilty to one or more offenses charged or
to one or more other or lesser offenses, or in return for the testimony of the
accused in a case to which the accused is not a party, offering or agreeing to
dismiss, or dismissing one or more charges pending against an accused, or
offering or agreeing to impose, or imposing a certain sentence or modification
of sentence.
      (3)   Imposing a community control sanction on certain conditions,
including without limitation requiring the offender to make restitution or
redress to the victim of the offense.
   (c)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (a)(3), (a)(4)
or (a)(5) of this section that the actor’s conduct was a reasonable response to
the circumstances which occasioned it, and that the actor’s purpose was limited
to any of the following:
      (1)   Compelling another to refrain from misconduct or to desist from
further misconduct.
      (2)   Preventing or redressing a wrong or injustice.
      (3)   Preventing another from taking action for which the actor
reasonably believed the other person to be disqualified.
      (4)   Compelling another to take action which the actor reasonably
believed the other person to be under a duty to take.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of coercion, a misdemeanor of
the second degree.
   (e)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Community control sanction” has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2929.01.
      (2)   “Threat” includes a direct threat and a threat by innuendo.
(R.C. § 2905.12)
§ 636.11 NONSUPPORT OF DEPENDENTS.
   (a)   No person shall abandon, or fail to provide adequate support to:
      (1)   His or her spouse, as required by law;
      (2)   His or her legitimate or illegitimate child who is under age 18, or
mentally or physically disabled child who is under age 21;
      (3)   His or her aged or infirm parent or adoptive parent, who from lack
of ability and means is unable to provide adequately for his or her own
support.
   (b)   (1)   No person shall abandon, or fail to provide support as
established by a court order to, another person whom, by court order or decree,
the person:
         A.   Is legally obligated to support; or
         B.   Was legally obligated to support, and an amount for support:
            1.   Was due and owing prior to the date the person’s duty to pay
current support terminated; and
            2.   Remains unpaid.
      (2)   The period of limitation under R.C. § 2901.13 applicable to
division (b)(1)B. of this section shall begin to run on the date the person’s
duty to pay current support terminates.
   (c)   No person shall aid, abet, induce, cause, encourage or contribute to a
child or a ward of the juvenile court becoming a dependent child, as defined in
R.C. § 2151.04, or a neglected child, as defined in R.C. § 2151.03.
   (d)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of failure to provide
adequate support under division (a) of this section or a charge of failure to
provide support established by a court order under division (b) of this section
that the accused was unable to provide adequate support or the established
support, but did provide the support that was within his or her ability and
means.
   (e)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (a)(3) of this
section that the parent abandoned the accused, or failed to support the accused
as required by law, while the accused was under age 18, or was mentally or
physically disabled and under age 21.
   (f)   It is not a defense to a charge under division (b) of this section
that the person whom a court has ordered the accused to support is being
adequately supported by someone other than the accused.
   (g)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (a) or (b) of this section is guilty of nonsupport of dependents, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (a)(2) or (b) of this section
or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or if the
offender has failed to provide support under division (a)(2) or (b) of this
section for a total accumulated period of 26 weeks out of 104 consecutive
weeks, whether or not the 26 weeks were consecutive, then a violation of
division (a)(2) or (b) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to a felony violation of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of division (a)(2) or
(b) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the offender is guilty of nonsupport of dependents by reason of
failing to provide support to his or her child as required by a child support
order issued on or after April 15, 1985, pursuant to R.C. § 2151.23, 2151.231,
2151.232, 2151.33, 3105.21, 3109.05, 3111.13, 3113.04, 3113.31, 3115.401, or
former R.C. § 3115.31, the court, in addition to any other sentence imposed,
shall assess all court costs arising out of the charge against the person and
require the person to pay any reasonable attorney’s fees of any adverse party
other than the state, as determined by the court, that arose in relation to the
charge.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (c) of this section is guilty of
contributing to the nonsupport of dependents, a misdemeanor of the first
degree. Each day of a violation of division (c) of this section is a separate
offense.
(R.C. § 2919.21)
§ 636.12 ENDANGERING CHILDREN.
   (a)   No person, who is the parent, guardian, custodian, person having
custody or control, or person in loco parentis of a child under 18 years of age
or a mentally or physically disabled child under 21 years of age, shall create
a substantial risk to the health or safety of the child by violating a duty of
care, protection or support. It is not a violation of a duty of care,
protection or support under this division when the parent, guardian, custodian
or person having custody or control of a child treats the physical or mental
illness or disability of the child by spiritual means through prayer alone, in
accordance with the tenets of a recognized religious body.
   (b)   No person shall do any of the following to a child under 18 years of
age or a mentally or physically disabled child under 21 years of age:
      (1)   Abuse the child.
      (2)   Torture or cruelly abuse the child.
      (3)   Administer corporal punishment or other physical disciplinary
measure, or physically restrain the child in a cruel manner or for a prolonged
period, which punishment, discipline or restraint is excessive under the
circumstances and creates a substantial risk of serious physical harm to the
child.
      (4)   Repeatedly administer unwarranted disciplinary measures to a child
when there is a substantial risk that this conduct, if continued, will
seriously impair or retard the child’s mental health or development.
      (5)   Entice, coerce, permit, encourage, compel, hire, employ, use or
allow the child to act, model or in any other way participate in, or be
photographed for, the production, presentation, dissemination or advertisement
of any material or performance that the offender knows or reasonably should
know is obscene, is sexually oriented matter or is nudity-oriented matter.
      (6)   Allow the child to be on the same parcel of real property and
within 100 feet of, or, in the case of more than one housing unit on the same
parcel of real property, in the same housing unit and within 100 feet of, any
act in violation of R.C. § 2925.04 or 2925.041 when the person knows that the
act is occurring, whether or not any person is prosecuted for or convicted of
the violation of R.C. § 2925.04 or 2925.041 that is the basis of the violation
of this division.
   (c)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle, as defined by R.C. § 4511.01,
within the municipality and in violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, when one or more children under
18 years of age are in the vehicle. Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
a person may be convicted at the same trial or proceeding of a violation of
this division and a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that constitutes the basis of the charge of the
violation of this division. For purposes of R.C. § 4511.191 to 4511.197 and all
related provisions of law, a person arrested for a violation of this division
shall be considered to be under arrest for operating a vehicle while under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, a combination of them or for operating a
vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled substance, or
a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole blood, blood serum or
plasma, breath, or urine.
      (2)   For the purpose of division (c)(1) of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning:
         A.   “Controlled substance.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
3719.01.
         B.   “Vehicle.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   (d)   (1)   Division (b)(5) of this section does not apply to any material
or performance that is produced, presented or disseminated for a bona fide
medical, scientific, educational, religious, governmental, judicial or other
proper purpose, by or to a physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist,
teacher, person pursuing bona fide studies for research, librarian, member of
the clergy, prosecutor, judge or other person having a proper interest in the
material or performance.
      (2)   Mistake of age is not a defense to a charge under division (b)(5)
of this section.
      (3)   In a prosecution under division (b)(5) of this section, the trier
of fact may infer that an actor, model or participant in the material or
performance involved is a juvenile if the material or performance, through its
title, text, visual representation or otherwise, represents or depicts the
actor, model or participant as a juvenile.
      (4)   For the purpose of this division and division (b)(5) of this
section, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
         A.   “Material,” “performance,” “obscene” and “sexual activity.” Have
the same meanings as in R.C. § 2907.01.
         B.   “Nudity-oriented matter.” Any material or performance that shows
a minor in a state of nudity and that, taken as a whole by the average person
applying contemporary community standards, appeals to the prurient interest.
         C.   “Sexually oriented matter.” Any material or performance that
shows a minor participating or engaging in sexual activity, masturbation or
bestiality.
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of endangering children.
      (1)   If the offender violates division (a) or (b)(1) of this section,
endangering children is one of the following:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (e)(1)B., (e)(1)C. or
(e)(1)D., a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         B.   If the offender previously has been convicted of an offense under
this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or
of any offense involving neglect, abandonment or contributing to the
delinquency of or physical abuse of a child, except as otherwise provided in
division (e)(1)C. or (e)(1)D. of this section, endangering children is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         C.   If the violation is a violation of division (a) of this section
and results in serious physical harm to the child involved, endangering
children is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         D.   If the violation is a violation of division (b)(1) of this
section and results in serious physical harm to the child involved, endangering
children is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the offender violates division (b)(2), (b)(3), (b)(4), (b)(5) or
(b)(6) of this section, endangering children is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the offender violates division (c) of this section, the offender
shall be punished as follows:
         A.   Except as provided in (e)(3)B. or (e)(3)C., endangering children
in violation of division (c) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
         B.   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the child or
if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this section or
a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any offense
involving neglect, abandonment or contributing to the delinquency of or
physical abuse of a child, except as otherwise provided in division (e)(3)C. of
this section, endangering children in violation of division (c) of this section
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         C.   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the child
and if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this
section, R.C. § 2903.06, 2903.08, 2919.22(C) or former R.C. § 2903.07 as it
existed prior to March 23, 2000, or R.C. § 2903.04, in a case in which the
offender was subject to the sanctions described in division (D) of that
section, endangering children in violation of division (c) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         D.   In addition to any term of imprisonment, fine or other sentence,
penalty or sanction it imposes upon the offender pursuant to divisions (e)
(3)A., (e)(3)B. or (e)(3)C. of this section or pursuant to any other provision
of law and in addition to any suspension of the offender’s driver’s license or
commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege under
R.C. Chapter 4506, Chapter 4509, Chapter 4510 or Chapter 4511, or any other
provision of law, the court also may impose upon the offender a class seven
suspension of the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02
(A)(7).
         E.   In addition to any term of imprisonment, fine, or other sentence,
penalty or sanction imposed upon the offender pursuant to division (e)(3)A.,
(e)(3)B., (e)(3)C. or (e)(3)D. of this section or pursuant to any other
provision of law for the violation of division (c) of this section, if as a
part of the same trial or proceeding the offender also is convicted of or
pleads guilty to a separate charge charging the violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A),
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the
charge of the violation of division (c) of this section, the offender also
shall be sentenced in accordance with R.C. § 4511.19, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, for that violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (f)   (1)   If a person violates division (c) of this section and if, at the
time of the violation, there were two or more children under 18 years of age in
the motor vehicle involved in the violation, the offender may be convicted of a
violation of division (c) of this section for each of the children, but the
court may sentence the offender for only one of the violations.
      (2)   A.   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (c) of this section but the person is not also convicted of and does
not also plead guilty to a separate charge of violating R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the charge
of the violation of division (c) of this section, both the following apply:
            1.   For purposes of the provisions of R.C. § 4511.19, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that set forth the penalties and
sanctions for a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, the conviction of or plea of guilty to the violation of
division (c) of this section shall not constitute a violation of R.C. § 4511.19
(A), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
            2.   For purposes of the provisions of law that refers to a
conviction of or plea of guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and that is not described in
division (f)(2)A.1. of this section, the conviction of or plea of guilty to the
violation of division (c) of this section shall constitute a conviction or plea
of guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
         B.   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (c) of this section and the person also is convicted of or pleads
guilty to a separate charge of violating R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the charge of the
violation of division (c) of this section, the conviction of or plea of guilty
to the violation of division (c) of this section shall not constitute, for the
purposes of any provision of law that refers to a conviction of or a plea of
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, a conviction of or a plea of guilty to a violation of R.C.
§ 4511.19(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 2919.22(A) - (E), (H))
Statutory reference:
   Community service, requirements, see R.C. § 2919.22(F)
   License suspension, requirements, see R.C. § 2919.22(G)
   Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.15
§ 636.13 INTERFERENCE WITH CUSTODY.
   (a)   No person, knowing that he or she is without privilege to do so or
being reckless in that regard, shall entice, take, keep or harbor a person
identified in division (a)(1), (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this section from the
parent, guardian or custodian of the person identified in division (a)(1), (a)
(2) or (a)(3) of this section:
      (1)   A child under the age of 18, or a mentally or physically disabled
child under the age of 21;
      (2)   A person committed by law to an institution for delinquent, unruly,
neglected, abused or dependent children;
      (3)   A person committed by law to an institution for the mentally ill or
an institution for persons with intellectual disabilities.
   (b)   No person shall aid, abet, induce, cause or encourage a child or a
ward of the juvenile court who has been committed to the custody of any person,
department or public or private institution to leave the custody of that
person, department or institution without legal consent.
   (c)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of enticing or taking under
division (a)(1) of this section that the actor reasonably believed that his or
her conduct was necessary to preserve the child’s health or safety. It is an
affirmative defense to a charge of keeping or harboring under division (a) of
this section that the actor in good faith gave notice to law enforcement or
judicial authorities within a reasonable time after the child or committed
person came under his or her shelter, protection, or influence.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interference with custody.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this subdivision, a violation of
division (a)(1) above is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the child who is
the subject of a violation of division (a)(1) is removed from the state or if
the offender previously has been convicted of an offense under this section or
a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of
division (a)(1) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law. If the child who is the subject of a violation of division (a)(1)
suffers physical harm as a result of the violation, a violation of division (a)
(1) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (3)   A violation of division (b) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. Each day of a violation of division (b) is a separate offense.
(R.C. § 2919.23)
§ 636.14 CONTRIBUTING TO THE UNRULINESS OR DELINQUENCY OF A CHILD.
   (a)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Delinquent child.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2152.02.
      (2)   “Unruly child.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2151.022.
   (b)   No person, including a parent, guardian, or other custodian of a
child, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Aid, abet, induce, cause, encourage, or contribute to a child or a
ward of the juvenile court becoming an unruly child or a delinquent child;
      (2)   Act in a way tending to cause a child or a ward of the juvenile
court to become an unruly child or a delinquent child;
      (3)   Act in a way that contributes to an adjudication of the child as a
delinquent child based on the child’s violation of a court order adjudicating
the child an unruly child for being an habitual truant;
      (4)   If the person is the parent, guardian, or custodian of a child who
has the duties under R.C. Chapters 2152 and 2950 to register, register a new
residence address, and periodically verify a residence address, and, if
applicable, to send a notice of intent to reside, and if the child is not
emancipated, as defined in R.C. § 2919.121, fail to ensure that the child
complies with those duties under R.C. Chapters 2152 and 2950.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of contributing to the
unruliness or delinquency of a child, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each
day of violation of this section is a separate offense.
(R.C. § 2919.24)
§ 636.15 RESERVED.
§ 636.16 THREATENING OR HARASSING TELECOMMUNICATIONS.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly make or cause to be made a
telecommunication, or knowingly permit a telecommunication to be made from a
telecommunications device under the person’s control, to another, if the caller
does any of the following:
      (1)   Makes the telecommunication with purpose to harass, intimidate, or
abuse any person at the premises to which the telecommunication is made,
whether or not actual communication takes place between the caller and a
recipient;
      (2)   Describes, suggests, requests or proposes that the caller, the
recipient of the telecommunication, or any other person engage in sexual
activity, and the recipient or another person at the premises to which the
telecommunication is made has requested, in a previous telecommunication or in
the immediate telecommunication, that the caller not make a telecommunication
to the recipient or to the premises to which the telecommunication is made;
      (3)   During the telecommunication, violates R.C. § 2903.21 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (4)   Knowingly states to the recipient of the telecommunication that the
caller intends to cause damage to or destroy public or private property, and
the recipient, any member of the recipient’s family or any other person who
resides at the premises to which the telecommunication is made owns, leases,
resides or works in, will at the time of the destruction or damaging be near or
in, has the responsibility of protecting, or insures the property that will be
destroyed or damaged;
      (5)   Knowingly makes the telecommunication to the recipient of the
telecommunication, to another person at the premises to which the
telecommunication is made, or to those premises, and the recipient or another
person at those premises previously has told the caller not to make a
telecommunication to those premises or to any persons at those premises;
      (6)   Knowingly makes any comment, request, suggestion, or proposal to
the recipient of the telecommunication that is threatening, intimidating,
menacing, coercive, or obscene with the intent to abuse, threaten, or harass
the recipient;
      (7)   Without a lawful business purpose, knowingly interrupts the
telecommunication service of any person;
      (8)   Without a lawful business purpose, knowingly transmits to any
person, regardless of whether the telecommunication is heard in its entirety,
any file, document, or other communication that prevents that person from using
the person’s telephone service or electronic communication device;
      (9)   Knowingly makes any false statement concerning the death, injury,
illness, disfigurement, reputation, indecent conduct, or criminal conduct of
the recipient of the telecommunication or family or household member of the
recipient with purpose to abuse, threaten, intimidate, or harass the recipient;
      (10)   Knowingly incites another person through a telecommunication or
other means to harass or participate in the harassment of a person;
      (11)   Knowingly alarms the recipient by making a telecommunication
without a lawful purpose at an hour or hours known to be inconvenient to the
recipient and in an offensive or repetitive manner.
   (b)   (1)   No person shall make or cause to be made a telecommunication or
permit a telecommunication to be made from a telecommunications device under
the person’s control, with purpose to abuse, threaten or harass another person.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly post a text or audio statement or an
image on an internet web site or web page for the purpose of abusing,
threatening, or harassing another person.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of telecommunications
harassment.
      (2)   A violation of division (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(5), (a)(6), (a)
(7), (a)(8), (a)(9), (a)(10), or (a)(11) or (b) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree on a first offense and a felony on each
subsequent offense, which shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (c)(3), a violation
of division (a)(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree on a
first offense and a felony on each subsequent offense, to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If a violation of division (a)(4) of this section
results in economic harm of $1,000 or more, telecommunications harassment is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (d)   No cause of action may be asserted in any court of this municipality
against any provider of a telecommunications service, interactive computer
service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, or against any
officer, employee or agent of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, for any
injury, death or loss to person or property that allegedly arises out of the
provider’s, officer’s, employee’s or agent’s provision of information,
facilities or assistance in accordance with the terms of a court order that is
issued in relation to the investigation or prosecution of an alleged violation
of this section. A provider of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, or an
officer, employee or agent of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, is
immune from any civil or criminal liability for injury, death or loss to person
or property that allegedly arises out of the provider’s, officer’s, employee’s
or agent’s provision of information, facilities or assistance in accordance
with the terms of a court order that is issued in relation to the investigation
or prosecution of an alleged violation of this section.
   (e)   (1)   This section does not apply to a person solely because the
person provided access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control, including
having provided capabilities that are incidental to providing access or
connection to or from the electronic method of remotely transferring the
information, and that do not include the creation of the content of the
material that is the subject of the access or connection. In addition, any
person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control shall not be
liable for any action voluntarily taken in good faith to block the receipt or
transmission through its service of any information that the person believes
is, or will be sent, in violation of this section.
      (2)   Division (e)(1) of this section does not create an affirmative duty
for any person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method
of remotely transferring information not under that person’s control to block
the receipt or transmission through its service of any information that it
believes is, or will be sent, in violation of this section except as otherwise
provided by law.
      (3)   Division (e)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
conspires with a person actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of this section or who knowingly
advertises the availability of material of that nature.
      (4)   A provider or user of an interactive computer service, as defined
in 47 U.S.C. § 230, shall neither be treated as the publisher or speaker of any
information provided by another information content provider, as defined in 47
U.S.C. § 230, nor held civilly or criminally liable for the creation or
development of information provided by another information content provider, as
defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230. Nothing in this division shall be construed to
protect a person from liability to the extent that the person developed or
created any content in violation of this section.
   (f)   Divisions (a)(5) to (a)(11) and (b)(2) of this section do not apply to
a person who, while employed or contracted by a newspaper, magazine, press
association, news agency, news wire service, cable channel or cable operator,
or radio or television station, is gathering, processing, transmitting,
compiling, editing, or disseminating information for the general public within
the scope of the person’s employment in that capacity or the person’s
contractual authority in that capacity.
   (g)   For the purpose of divisions (a) through (d) of this section, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Cable operator.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21.
      (2)   “Caller.” The person described in division (a) of this section who
makes or causes to be made a telecommunication or who permits a
telecommunication to be made from a telecommunications device under that
person’s control.
      (3)   “Economic harm.” All direct, incidental and consequential pecuniary
harm suffered by a victim as a result of the criminal conduct. The term
includes but is not limited to all of the following:
         A.   All wages, salaries or other compensation lost as a result of the
criminal conduct;
         B.   The cost of all wages, salaries or other compensation paid to
employees for time those employees are prevented from working as a result of
the criminal conduct;
         C.   The overhead costs incurred from the time that a business is shut
down as a result of the criminal conduct;
         D.   The loss of value to tangible or intangible property that was
damaged as a result of the criminal conduct.
      (4)   “Family or household member.” Means any of the following:
         A.   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
recipient of the telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in division
(a)(9) of this section is committed:
            1.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse, or a former spouse of
the recipient;
            2.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the recipient, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the recipient;
            3.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse, or
former spouse of the recipient, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
recipient.
         B.   The natural parent of any child of whom the recipient of the
telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in division (a)(9) of this
section is committed is the other natural parent or is the putative other
natural parent.
      (5)   “Person living as a spouse.” Means a person who is living or has
lived with the recipient of the telecommunication against whom the act
prohibited in division (a)(9) of this section is committed in a common law
marital relationship, who otherwise is cohabiting with the recipient, or who
otherwise has cohabited with the recipient within five years prior to the date
of the alleged commission of the act in question.
      (6)   “Sexual activity.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
      (7)   “Telecommunication” and “telecommunications device.” Have the same
meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   (h)   Nothing in this section prohibits a person from making a
telecommunication to a debtor that is in compliance with the “Fair Debt
Collection Practices Act”, 15 U.S.C. § 1692, as amended, or the “Telephone
Consumer Protection Act”, 47 U.S.C. § 227, as amended.
(R.C. § 2917.21)
§ 636.17 PLACING HARMFUL SUBSTANCE OR OBJECTS IN FOOD OR CONFECTION.
   (a)   No person shall do either of the following, knowing or having
reasonable cause to believe that any person may suffer physical harm or be
seriously inconvenienced or annoyed thereby:
      (1)   Place a pin, razor blade, glass, laxative, drug of abuse or other
harmful or hazardous object or substance in any food or confection.
      (2)   Furnish to any person any food or confection which has been
adulterated in violation of division (a)(1) of this section.
(R.C. § 3716.11)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 3716.99(C))
§ 636.18 DOMESTIC VIOLENCE.
   (a)   Prohibited Conduct.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly cause or attempt to cause physical harm
to a family or household member.
      (2)   No person shall recklessly cause serious physical harm to a family
or household member.
      (3)   No person, by threat of force, shall knowingly cause a family or
household member to believe that the offender will cause imminent physical harm
to the family or household member.
      (4)   A.   Whoever violates this section is guilty of domestic violence,
and the court shall sentence the offender as provided in divisions (a)(4)B. to
(a)(4)E. of this section.
         B.   Except as otherwise provided in division (a)(4)C., (a)(4)D. or
(a)(4)E. of this section, a violation of division (a)(3) is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree and a violation of division (a)(1) or (a)(2) is a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
         C.   Except as otherwise provided in division (a)(4)D. of this
section, if the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted of
domestic violence, a violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or
law of this or any other state or the United States that is substantially
equivalent to domestic violence, a violation of R.C. § 2903.14, 2909.06,
2909.07, 2911.12, 2911.211 or 2919.22 if the victim of the violation was a
family or household member at the time of the violation, a violation of an
existing or former municipal ordinance or law of this or any other state or the
United States that is substantially equivalent to any of those sections if the
victim of the violation was a family or household member at the time of the
commission of the violation, or any offense of violence if the victim of the
offense was a family or household member at the time of the commission of the
offense, a violation of division (a)(1) or (a)(2) is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law, and a violation of division (a)(3) is a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
         D.   If the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been
convicted of two or more offenses of domestic violence or two or more
violations or offenses of the type described in division (a)(4)C. of this
section involving a person who was a family or household member at the time of
the violations or offenses, a violation of division (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law, and a
violation of division (a)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
         E.   Except as otherwise provided in division (a)(4)C. or (a)(4)D. of
this section, if the offender knew that the victim of the violation was
pregnant at the time of the violation, a violation of division (a)(1) or (a)(2)
of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law, and a
violation of division (a)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
      (5)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no court or
unit of state or local government shall charge any fee, cost, deposit or money
in connection with the filing of charges against a person alleging that the
person violated this section or a municipal ordinance substantially equivalent
to this section or in connection with the prosecution of any charges so filed.
      (6)   As used in this section:
         A.   “Family or household member.” Any of the following:
            1.   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
offender:
               a.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse as defined below, or
a former spouse of the offender;
               b.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the offender, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the offender;
               c.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse,
or former spouse of the offender, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
offender.
            2.   The natural parent of any child of whom the offender is the
other natural parent or is the putative other natural parent.
         B.   “Person living as a spouse.” A person who is living or has lived
with the offender in a common law marital relationship, who otherwise is
cohabiting with the offender, or who otherwise has cohabited with the offender
within five years prior to the date of the alleged commission of the act in
question.
(R.C. § 2919.25)
   (b)   Temporary Protection Order. Consult R.C. § 2919.26 for current
provisions regarding protection orders.
   (c)   Violating a Protection Order, Consent Agreement, Anti-stalking
Protection Order or Order Issued by a Court of Another State. See §
636.06 (c) for current provisions.
§ 636.19 SAFETY OF CROWDS ATTENDING LIVE ENTERTAINMENT PERFORMANCES.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Concert.” A musical performance of which the primary component is
a presentation by persons singing or playing musical instruments, that is
intended by its sponsors mainly, but not necessarily exclusively, for the
listening enjoyment of the audience, and that is held in a facility. A
“concert” does not include any performance in which music is a part of the
presentation and the primary component of which is acting, dancing, a motion
picture, a demonstration of skills or talent other than singing or playing an
instrument, an athletic event, an exhibition or a speech.
      (2)   “Facility.” Any structure that has a roof or partial roof and that
has walls that wholly surround the area on all sides, including but not limited
to a stadium, hall, arena, armory, auditorium, ballroom, exhibition hall,
convention center or music hall.
      (3)   “Live entertainment performance.” Any live speech; any live musical
performance, including a concert; any live dramatic performance; any live
variety show; and any other live performance with respect to which the primary
intent of the audience can be construed to be viewing the performers. A “live
entertainment performance” does not include any form of entertainment with
respect to which the person purchasing a ticket routinely participates in
amusements as well as views performers.
      (4)   “Person.” Includes, in addition to an individual or entity
specified in R.C. § 1.59(C), any governmental entity.
      (5)   “Restricted entertainment area.” Any wholly or partially enclosed
area, whether indoors or outdoors, that has limited access through established
entrances or established turnstiles or similar devices.
   (b)   (1)   No person shall sell, offer to sell, or offer in return for a
donation, any ticket that is not numbered and that does not correspond to a
specific seat for admission to either of the following:
         A.   A live entertainment performance that is not exempted under
division (d) of this section, that is held in a restricted entertainment area,
and for which more than 8,000 tickets are offered to the public;
         B.   A concert that is not exempted under division (d) of this section
and for which more than 3,000 tickets are offered to the public.
      (2)   No person shall advertise any live entertainment performance as
described in division (b)(1)A. of this section or any concert as described in
division (b)(1)B. of this section, unless the advertisement contains the words
“Reserved Seats Only”.
   (c)   Unless exempted by division (d)(1) of this section, no person who owns
or operates any restricted entertainment area shall fail to open, maintain and
properly staff at least the number of entrances designated under division (e)
of this section for a minimum of 90 minutes prior to the scheduled start of any
live entertainment performance that is held in the restricted entertainment
area and for which more than 3,000 tickets are sold, offered for sale or
offered in return for a donation.
   (d)   (1)   A live entertainment performance, other than a concert, is
exempted from the provisions of divisions (b) and (c) of this section if both
of the following apply:
         A.   The restricted entertainment area in which the performance is
held has at least eight entrances or, if both entrances and separate admission
turnstiles or similar devices are used, has at least eight turnstiles or
similar devices.
         B.   The eight entrances or, if applicable, the eight turnstiles or
similar devices, are opened, maintained and properly staffed at least one hour
prior to the scheduled start of the performance.
      (2)   A.   1.   The officer responsible for public safety in the
municipality may, upon application of the sponsor of a concert covered by
division (b) of this section, exempt the concert from the provisions of that
division if the officer finds that the health, safety and welfare of the
participants and spectators would not be substantially affected by failure to
comply with the provisions of that division. In determining whether to grant an
exemption, the officer shall consider the following factors:
               a.   The size and design of the facility in which the concert is
scheduled;
               b.   The size, age and anticipated conduct of the crowd expected
to attend the concert;
               c.   The ability of the sponsor to manage and control the
expected crowd.
            2.   If the sponsor of any concert desires to obtain an exemption
under this division, the sponsor shall apply to the appropriate official on a
form prescribed by that official. The official shall issue an order that grants
or denies the exemption within five days after receipt of the application. The
sponsor may appeal any order that denies an exemption to the Court of Common
Pleas of the county in which the facility is located.
         B.   If an official grants an exemption under division (d)(2)A. of
this section, the official shall designate an on-duty law enforcement officer
to be present at the concert. The designated officer has authority to issue
orders to all security personnel at the concert to protect the health, safety
and welfare of the participants and spectators.
      (3)   Notwithstanding division (d)(2) of this section, in the case of a
concert held in a facility located on the campus of an educational institution
covered by R.C. § 3345.04, a state university law enforcement officer appointed
pursuant to R.C. § 3345.04 and 3345.21 shall do both of the following:
         A.   Exercise the authority to grant exemptions provided by division
(d)(2)A. of this section in lieu of an official designated in that division;
         B.   If the officer grants an exemption under division (d)(3)A. of
this section, designate an on-duty state university law enforcement officer to
be present at the concert. The designated officer has authority to issue orders
to all security personnel at the concert to protect the health, safety and
welfare of the participants and spectators.
   (e)   (1)   Unless a live entertainment performance is exempted by division
(d)(1) of this section, the officer responsible for public safety within the
municipality shall designate, for purposes of division (c) of this section, the
minimum number of entrances required to be opened, maintained and staffed at
each live entertainment performance so as to permit crowd control and reduce
congestion at the entrances. The designation shall be based on such factors as
the size and nature of the crowd expected to attend the live entertainment
performance, the length of time prior to the live entertainment performance
that crowds are expected to congregate at the entrances and the amount of
security provided at the restricted entertainment area.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (e)(1) of this section, a state university
law enforcement officer appointed pursuant to R.C. § 3345.04 and 3345.21 shall
designate the number of entrances required to be opened, maintained and staffed
in the case of a live entertainment performance that is held at a restricted
entertainment area located on the campus of an educational institution covered
by R.C. § 3345.04.
   (f)   No person shall enter into any contract for a live entertainment
performance that does not permit or require compliance with this section.
   (g)   (1)   This section does not apply to a live entertainment performance
held in a restricted entertainment area if one admission ticket entitles the
holder to view or participate in three or more different games, rides,
activities or live entertainment performances occurring simultaneously at
different sites within the restricted entertainment area and if the initial
admittance entrance to the restricted entertainment area, for which the ticket
is required, is separate from the entrance to any specific live entertainment
performance and an additional ticket is not required for admission to the
particular live entertainment performance.
      (2)   This section does not apply to a symphony orchestra performance, a
ballet performance, horse races, dances or fairs.
   (h)   This section does not prohibit the Council from imposing additional
requirements, not in conflict with the section, for the promotion or holding of
live entertainment performances.
   (i)   Whoever violates division (b), (c) or (f) of this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If any individual suffers physical harm to
his or her person as a result of a violation of this section, the sentencing
court shall consider this factor in favor of imposing a term of imprisonment
upon the offender.
(R.C. § 2917.40)
§ 636.20 HAZING.
   (a)   As used in this section:
      (1)   "Hazing." Means doing any act or coercing another, including the
victim, to do any act of initiation into any student or other organization or
any act to continue or reinstate membership in or affiliation with any student
or other organization that causes or creates a substantial risk of causing
mental or physical harm to any person, including coercing another to consume
alcohol or a drug of abuse, as defined in R.C. § 3719.011.
      (2)   "Organization." Includes a national or international organization
with which a fraternity or sorority is affiliated.
   (b)   (1)   No person shall recklessly participate in the hazing of another.
      (2)   No administrator, employee, faculty member, teacher, consultant,
alumnus, or volunteer of any organization, including any primary, secondary, or
post-secondary school or any other educational institution, public or private,
shall recklessly permit the hazing of any person associated with the
organization.
   (c)   (1)   No person shall recklessly participate in the hazing of another
when the hazing includes coerced consumption of alcohol or drugs of abuse
resulting in serious physical harm to the other person.
      (2)   No administrator, employee, faculty member, teacher, consultant,
alumnus, or volunteer of any organization, including any primary, secondary, or
post-secondary school or any other educational institution, public or private,
shall recklessly permit the hazing of any person associated with the
organization when the hazing includes coerced consumption of alcohol or drugs
of abuse resulting in serious physical harm to that person.
   (d)   Whoever violates divisions (b) or (c) of this section is guilty of
hazing. A violation of division (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the second degree. A violation of division (c)(1) or (c)(2) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.31)
   (e)   Reckless failure to immediately report knowledge of hazing.
      (1)   No administrator, employee, faculty member, teacher, consultant,
alumnus, or volunteer of any organization, including any primary, secondary, or
post-secondary school or any other public or private educational institution,
who is acting in an official and professional capacity shall recklessly fail to
immediately report the knowledge of hazing to a law enforcement agency in the
county in which the victim of hazing resides or in which the hazing is
occurring or has occurred.
      (2)   A violation of division (e)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree, except that the violation is a misdemeanor of the first
degree if the hazing causes serious physical harm.
(R.C. § 2903.311(B), (C))
Statutory reference:
   Civil liability for hazing, see R.C. § 2307.44
§ 636.21 ILLEGAL DISTRIBUTION OF CIGARETTES, OTHER TOBACCO PRODUCTS, OR
ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCTS; TRANSACTION SCANS.
   (a)   Illegal Distribution of Cigarettes, Other Tobacco Products, or
Alternative Nicotine Products.
      (1)   As used in this section:
         A.   “Age verification.” A service provided by an independent third
party (other than a manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or
retailer of cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products,
or papers used to roll cigarettes) that compares information available from a
commercially available database, or aggregate of databases, that regularly are
used by government and businesses for the purpose of age and identity
verification to personal information provided during an internet sale or other
remote method of sale to establish that the purchaser is 21 years of age or
older.
         B.   “Alternative nicotine product.”
            1.   Subject to division 2. of this definition, an electronic
smoking device, vapor product, or any other product or device that consists of
or contains nicotine that can be ingested into the body by any means,
including, but not limited to, chewing, smoking, absorbing, dissolving, or
inhaling.
            2.   The phrase does not include any of the following:
               a.   Any cigarette or other tobacco product;
               b.   Any product that is a “drug” as that term is defined in 21
U.S.C. § 321(g)(1);
               c.   Any product that is a “device” as that term is defined in
21 U.S.C. § 321(h);
               d.   Any product that is a “combination product” as described in
21 U.S.C. § 353(g).
         C.   “Cigarette.” Includes clove cigarettes and hand-rolled
cigarettes.
         D.   “Distribute.” Means to furnish, give, or provide cigarettes,
other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes to the ultimate consumer of the cigarettes, other tobacco products,
alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes.
         E.   “Electronic smoking device.” Means any device that can be used to
deliver aerosolized or vaporized nicotine or any other substance to the person
inhaling from the device including an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic hookah, vaping pen, or electronic pipe. The phrase includes any
component, part, or accessory of such a device, whether or not sold separately,
and includes any substance intended to be aerosolized or vaporized during the
use of the device. The phrase does not include any product that is a drug,
device, or combination product, as those terms are defined or described in 21
U.S.C. §§ 321 and 353(g).
         F.   “Proof of age.” Means a driver’s license, a commercial driver’s
license, a military identification card, a passport, or an identification card
issued under R.C. § 4507.50 to 4507.52 that shows that a person is 18 years of
age or older.
         G.   “Tobacco product.” Means any product that is made or derived from
tobacco or that contains any form of nicotine, if it is intended for human
consumption or is likely to be consumed, whether smoked, heated, chewed,
absorbed, dissolved, inhaled, or ingested by any other means, including, but
not limited to, a cigarette, an electronic smoking device, a cigar, pipe
tobacco, chewing tobacco, snuff, or snus. The phrase also means any component
or accessory used in the consumption of a tobacco product, such as filters,
rolling papers, pipes, blunt or hemp wraps, and liquids used in electronic
smoking devices, whether or not they contain nicotine. The phrase does not
include any product that is a drug, device, or combination product, as those
terms are defined or described in 21 U.S.C. §§ 321 and 353(g).
         H.   “Vapor product.” Means a product, other than a cigarette or other
tobacco product as defined in R.C. Chapter 5743, that contains or is made or
derived from nicotine and that is intended and marketed for human consumption,
including by smoking, inhaling, snorting, or sniffing. The phrase includes any
component, part, or additive that is intended for use in an electronic smoking
device, a mechanical heating element, battery, or electronic circuit and is
used to deliver the product. The phrase does not include any product that is a
drug, device, or combination product, as those terms are defined or described
in 21 U.S.C. §§ 321 and 353(g). The phrase includes any product containing
nicotine, regardless of concentration.
         I.   “Vending machine.” Has the same meaning as “coin machine” in R.C.
§ 2913.01.
      (2)   No manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of
cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers
used to roll cigarettes, no agent, employee, or representative of a
manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of cigarettes,
other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes, and no other person shall do any of the following:
         A.   Give, sell, or otherwise distribute cigarettes, other tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes to
any person under 21 years of age;
         B.   Give away, sell, or distribute cigarettes, other tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes in
any place that does not have posted in a conspicuous place a legibly printed
sign in letters at least one-half inch high stating that giving, selling, or
otherwise distributing cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or papers used to roll cigarettes to a person under 21 years of age
is prohibited by law;
         C.   Knowingly furnish any false information regarding the name, age,
or other identification of any person under 21 years of age with purpose to
obtain cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or
papers used to roll cigarettes for that person;
         D.   Manufacture, sell, or distribute in this state any pack or other
container of cigarettes containing fewer than 20 cigarettes or any package of
roll-your-own tobacco containing less than six-tenths of one ounce of tobacco;
         E.   Sell cigarettes or alternative nicotine products in a smaller
quantity than that placed in the pack or other container by the manufacturer;
         F.   Give, sell, or otherwise distribute alternative nicotine
products, papers used to roll cigarettes, or tobacco products other than
cigarettes over the internet or through another remote method without age
verification.
      (3)   No person shall sell or offer to sell cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products by or from a vending machine, except
in the following locations:
         A.   An area within a factory, business, office, or other place not
open to the general public;
         B.   An area to which persons under 21 years of age are not generally
permitted access;
         C.   Any other place not identified in division (a)(3)A. or (a)(3)B.
of this section, upon all of the following conditions:
            1.   The vending machine is located within the immediate vicinity,
plain view, and control of the person who owns or operates the place, or an
employee of that person, so that all cigarettes, other tobacco product, and
alternative nicotine product purchases from the vending machine will be readily
observed by the person who owns or operates the place or an employee of that
person. For the purpose of this section, a vending machine located in any
unmonitored area, including an unmonitored coatroom, restroom, hallway, or
outer waiting area, shall not be considered located within the immediate
vicinity, plain view, and control of the person who owns or operates the place,
or an employee of that person.
            2.   The vending machine is inaccessible to the public when the
place is closed.
            3.   A clearly visible notice is posted in the area where the
vending machine is located that states the following in letters that are
legibly printed and at least one-half inch high: “It is illegal for any person
under the age of 21 to purchase tobacco or alternative nicotine products.”
      (4)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under division
(a)(2)A. of this section:
         A.   The person under 21 years of age was accompanied by a parent,
spouse who is 21 years of age or older, or legal guardian of the person under
21 years of age.
         B.   The person who gave, sold, or distributed cigarettes, other
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes to a person under 21 years of age under division (a)(2)A. of this
section is a parent, spouse who is 21 years of age or older, or legal guardian
of the person under 21 years of age.
      (5)   It is not a violation of division (a)(2)A. or (a)(2)B. of this
section for a person to give or otherwise distribute to a person under 21 years
of age cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or
papers used to roll cigarettes while the person under 21 years of age is
participating in a research protocol if all of the following apply:
         A.   The parent, guardian, or legal custodian of the person under 21
years of age has consented in writing to the person under 21 years of age
participating in the research protocol.
         B.   An institutional human subjects protection review board, or an
equivalent entity, has approved the research protocol.
         C.   The person under 21 years of age is participating in the research
protocol at the facility or location specified in the research protocol.
      (6)   A.   Whoever violates division (a)(2)A., (a)(2)B., (a)(2)D., (a)
(2)E., or (a)(2)F. or (a)(3) of this section is guilty of illegal distribution
of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, illegal distribution of cigarettes,
other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation
of division (a)(2)A., (a)(2)B., (a)(2)D., (a)(2)E., or (a)(2)F. or (a)(3) of
this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative
nicotine products is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
         B.   Whoever violates division (a)(2)C. of this section is guilty of
permitting a person under 21 years of age to use cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products. Except as otherwise provided in
this division, permitting a person under 21 years of age to use cigarettes,
other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation
of division (a)(2)C. of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, permitting a person under 21 years of age to use
cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (7)   Any cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or papers used to roll cigarettes that are given, sold, or otherwise
distributed to a person under 21 years of age in violation of this section and
that are used, possessed, purchased, or received by a person under 21 years of
age in violation of R.C. § 2151.87 are subject to seizure and forfeiture as
contraband under R.C. Chapter 2981.
(R.C. § 2927.02)
   (b)   Transaction Scan.
      (1)   For the purpose of this division and division (c) of this section,
the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
         A.   “Card holder.” Any person who presents a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card to a seller, or an agent or employee
of a seller, to purchase or receive cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products from a seller, agent or employee.
         B.   “Identification card.” An identification card issued under R.C. §
4507.50 to 4507.52.
         C.   “Seller.” A seller of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products and includes any person whose gift of or other
distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products is subject to the prohibitions of division (a) of this section.
         D.   “Transaction scan.” The process by which a seller or an agent or
employee of a seller checks, by means of a transaction scan device, the
validity of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification card
that is presented as a condition for purchasing or receiving cigarettes, other
tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products.
         E.   “Transaction scan device.” Any commercial device or combination
of devices used at a point of sale that is capable of deciphering in an
electronically readable format the information encoded on the magnetic strip or
bar code of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification
card.
      (2)   A.   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may perform a
transaction scan by means of a transaction scan device to check the validity of
a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a
card holder as a condition for selling, giving away or otherwise distributing
to the card holder cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products.
         B.   If the information deciphered by the transaction scan performed
under division (b)(2)A. of this section fails to match the information printed
on the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by the card holder, or if the transaction scan indicates that the information
so printed is false or fraudulent, neither the seller nor any agent or employee
of the seller shall sell, give away or otherwise distribute any cigarettes,
other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products to the card holder.
         C.   Division (b)(2)A. of this section does not preclude a seller or
an agent or employee of a seller from using a transaction scan device to check
the validity of a document other than a driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or identification card, if the document includes a bar code or magnetic strip
that may be scanned by the device, as a condition for selling, giving away or
otherwise distributing cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative
nicotine products to the person presenting the document.
      (3)   Rules adopted by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles under R.C. §
4301.61(C) apply to the use of transaction scan devices for purposes of this
division (b) and division (c) of this section.
      (4)   A.   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall
electronically or mechanically record or maintain any information derived from
a transaction scan, except for the following:
            1.   The name and date of birth of the person listed on the
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the
card holder;
            2.   The expiration date and identification number of the driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the card
holder.
         B.   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use the
information that is derived from a transaction scan or that is permitted to be
recorded and maintained under division (b)(4)A. of this section, except for
purposes of division (c) of this section.
         C.   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use a
transaction scan device for a purpose other than the purpose specified in
division (c)(2)A. of this section.
         D.   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall sell or
otherwise disseminate the information derived from a transaction scan to any
third party, including but not limited to selling or otherwise disseminating
that information for any marketing, advertising or promotional activities, but
a seller or agent or employee of a seller may release that information pursuant
to a court order or as specifically authorized by division (c) of this section
or another section of these Codified Ordinances or the Ohio Revised Code.
      (5)   Nothing in this division (b) or division (c) of this section
relieves a seller or an agent or employee of a seller of any responsibility to
comply with any other applicable local, state or federal laws or rules
governing the sale, giving away or other distribution of cigarettes, other
tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (b)(2)B. or (b)(4) of this section is
guilty of engaging in an illegal tobacco product or alternative nicotine
product transaction scan, and the court may impose upon the offender a civil
penalty of up to $1,000 for each violation. The Clerk of the Court shall pay
each collected civil penalty to the County Treasurer for deposit into the
County Treasury.
(R.C. § 2927.021)
   (c)   Affirmative Defenses.
      (1)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may not be found
guilty of a charge of a violation of division (a) of this section in which the
age of the purchaser or other recipient of cigarettes, other tobacco products,
or alternative nicotine products is an element of the alleged violation, if the
seller, agent or employee raises and proves as an affirmative defense that all
of the following occurred:
         A.   A card holder attempting to purchase or receive cigarettes, other
tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products presented a driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or an identification card.
         B.   A transaction scan of the driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or identification card that the card holder presented indicated that the
license or card was valid.
         C.   The cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products were sold, given away or otherwise distributed to the card holder in
reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and the completed
transaction scan.
      (2)   In determining whether a seller or an agent or employee of a seller
has proven the affirmative defense provided by division (c)(1) of this section,
the trier of fact in the action for the alleged violation of division (a) of
this section shall consider any written policy that the seller has adopted and
implemented and that is intended to prevent violations of division (a) of this
section. For purposes of division (c)(1)C. of this section, the trier of fact
shall consider that reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and
the completed transaction scan may require a seller or an agent or employee of
a seller to exercise reasonable diligence to determine, and that the use of a
transaction scan device does not excuse a seller or an agent or employee of a
seller from exercising reasonable diligence to determine, the following:
         A.   Whether a person to whom the seller or agent or employee of a
seller sells, gives away or otherwise distributes cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products is 21 years of age or older;
         B.   Whether the description and picture appearing on the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a card holder
is that of the card holder.
      (3)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense provided by
division (c)(1) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a
Deputy Registrar who issued an identification card under R.C. § 4507.50 to
4507.52 shall be permitted to submit certified copies of the records of that
issuance in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of or contractors with the
Bureau of Motor Vehicles in the action.
(R.C. § 2927.022)
   (d)   Shipment of Tobacco Products.
      (1)   As used in this division (d):
         A.   “Authorized recipient of tobacco products” means a person who is:
            1.   Licensed as a cigarette wholesale dealer under R.C. § 5743.15;
            2.   Licensed as a retail dealer as long as the person purchases
cigarettes with the appropriate tax stamp affixed;
            3.   An export warehouse proprietor as defined in Section 5702 of
the Internal Revenue Code;
            4.   An operator of a customs bonded warehouse under 19 U.S.C. §
1311 or 19 U.S.C. § 1555;
            5.   An officer, employee, or agent of the federal government or of
this state acting in the person’s official capacity;
            6.   A department, agency, instrumentality, or political
subdivision of the federal government or of this state;
            7.   A person having a consent for consumer shipment issued by the
Tax Commissioner under R.C. § 5743.71.
         B.   “Motor carrier.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4923.01.
      (2)   The purpose of this division (d) is to prevent the sale of
cigarettes to minors and to ensure compliance with the Master Settlement
Agreement, as defined in R.C. § 1346.01.
      (3)   A.   No person shall cause to be shipped any cigarettes to any
person in this municipality other than an authorized recipient of tobacco
products.
         B.   No motor carrier or other person shall knowingly transport
cigarettes to any person in this municipality that the carrier or other person
reasonably believes is not an authorized recipient of tobacco products. If
cigarettes are transported to a home or residence, it shall be presumed that
the motor carrier or other person knew that the person to whom the cigarettes
were delivered was not an authorized recipient of tobacco products.
      (4)   No person engaged in the business of selling cigarettes who ships
or causes to be shipped cigarettes to any person in this municipality in any
container or wrapping other than the original container or wrapping of the
cigarettes shall fail to plainly and visibly mark the exterior of the container
or wrapping in which the cigarettes are shipped with the words “cigarettes”.
      (5)   A court shall impose a fine of up to $1,000 for each violation of
division (d)(3)A., (d)(3)B. or (d)(4) of this section.
(R.C. § 2927.023)
   (e)   Furnishing false information to obtain tobacco products.
      (1)   No person who is 18 years of age or older but younger than 21 years
of age shall knowingly furnish false information concerning that person’s name,
age, or other identification for the purpose of obtaining tobacco products.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (e)(1) of this section is guilty of
furnishing false information to obtain tobacco products. Except as otherwise
provided in this division, furnishing false information to obtain tobacco
products is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (e)(1) of this
section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
furnishing false information to obtain tobacco products is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
(R.C. § 2927.024)
§ 636.22 ETHNIC INTIMIDATION.
   (a)   No person shall violate R.C. § 2903.21, 2903.22, 2909.06 or 2909.07,
or 2917.21(A)(3), (A)(4) or (A)(5), or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance to any of these sections, by reason of the race, color, religion or
national origin of another person or group of persons.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of ethnic intimidation. Ethnic
intimidation is an offense of the next higher degree than the offense the
commission of which is a necessary element of ethnic intimidation. In the case
of an offense that is a misdemeanor of the first degree, ethnic intimidation is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.12)
§ 636.23 INTIMIDATION IN CONNECTION WITH HOUSING.
   (a)   No person, whether or not acting under color of law, shall by force or
threat of force willfully injure, intimidate or interfere with, or attempt to
injure, intimidate or interfere with any of the following:
      (1)   Any person because of race, color, religion, sex, familial status,
as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, national origin, military status as defined in
that section, disability as defined in that section, or ancestry and because
that person is or has been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying,
contracting or negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or
occupation of any housing accommodations, or applying for or participating in
any service, organization or facility relating to the business of selling or
renting housing accommodations.
      (2)   Any person because that person is or has been doing, or in order to
intimidate that person or any other person or any class of persons from doing
either of the following:
         A.   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, familial status, as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, national origin,
military status as defined in that section, disability as defined in that
section, or ancestry, in any of the activities, services, organizations, or
facilities described in division (a)(1) of this section;
         B.   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
      (3)   Any person because that person is or has been, or in order to
discourage that person or any other person from, lawfully aiding or encouraging
other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, familial status as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, national origin,
military status as defined in that section, disability as defined in that
section, or ancestry, in any of the activities, services, organizations or
facilities described in division (a)(1) of this section, or participating
lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of the opportunity
to so participate.
   (b)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2927.03)
§ 636.24 FAILING TO PROVIDE FOR A FUNCTIONALLY IMPAIRED PERSON.
   (a)   No caretaker shall knowingly fail to provide a functionally impaired
person under his or her care with any treatment, care, goods or service that is
necessary to maintain the health or safety of the functionally impaired person
when this failure results in physical harm or serious physical harm to the
functionally impaired person.
   (b)   No caretaker shall recklessly fail to provide a functionally impaired
person under his or her care with any treatment, care, goods or service that is
necessary to maintain the health or safety of the functionally impaired person
when this failure results in serious physical harm to the functionally impaired
person.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of
knowingly failing to provide for a functionally impaired person, a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the functionally impaired person under the offender’s
care suffers serious physical harm as a result of the violation of this
section, a violation of division (a) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of
recklessly failing to provide for a functionally impaired person, a misdemeanor
of the second degree. If the functionally impaired person under the offender’s
care suffers serious physical harm as a result of the violation of this
section, a violation of division (b) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.16)
   (d)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Caretaker.” A person who assumes the duty to provide for the care
and protection of a functionally impaired person on a voluntary basis, by
contract, through receipt of payment for care and protection, as a result of a
family relationship, or by order of a court of competent jurisdiction.
“Caretaker” does not include a person who owns, operates or administers, or who
is an agent or employee of, a care facility, as defined in R.C. § 2903.33.
      (2)   “Functionally impaired person.” Any person who has a physical or
mental impairment that prevents the person from providing for his or her own
care or protection or whose infirmities caused by aging prevent the person from
providing for his or her own care or protection.
(R.C. § 2903.10)
§ 636.25 FAILURE TO PERFORM VIABILITY TESTING.
   (a)   Except in a medical emergency that prevents compliance with this
division, no physician shall perform or induce or attempt to perform or induce
an abortion on a pregnant woman after the beginning of the twentieth week of
gestation unless, prior to the performance or inducement of the abortion or the
attempt to perform or induce the abortion, the physician determines, in the
physician’s good faith medical judgment, that the unborn child is not viable,
and the physician makes that determination after performing a medical
examination of the pregnant woman and after performing or causing to be
performed those tests for assessing gestational age, weight, lung maturity, or
other tests that the physician, in that physician’s good faith medical
judgment, believes are necessary to determine whether an unborn child is
viable.
   (b)   Except in a medical emergency that prevents compliance with this
division, no physician shall perform or induce or attempt to perform or induce
an abortion on a pregnant woman after the beginning of the twentieth week of
gestation without first entering the determination made in division (a) of this
section and the associated findings of the medical examination and tests in the
medical record of the pregnant woman.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to perform
viability testing, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (d)   The State Medical Board shall suspend a physician’s license to
practice medicine in this state for a period of not less than six months if the
physician violates this section.
(R.C. § 2919.18)
§ 636.26 UNLAWFUL COLLECTION OF BODILY SUBSTANCES.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly collect any blood, urine, tissue, or other
bodily substance of another person without privilege or consent to do so.
   (b)   (1)   Division (a) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
         A.   The collection of any bodily substance of a person by a law
enforcement officer, or by another person pursuant to the direction or advice
of a law enforcement officer, for purposes of a chemical test or tests of the
substance under R.C. § 1547.111(A)(1) or 4511.191(A)(2) to determine the
alcohol, drug, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or
combination content of the bodily substance;
         B.   The collection of any bodily substance of a person by a peace
officer, or by another person pursuant to the direction or advice of a peace
officer, for purposes of a test or tests of the substance as provided in R.C. §
4506.17(A) to determine the person’s alcohol concentration or the presence of
any controlled substance or metabolite of a controlled substance.
      (2)   Division (b)(1) of this section shall not be construed as implying
that the persons identified in divisions (b)(1)A. and B. of this section do not
have privilege to collect the bodily substance of another person as described
in those divisions or as limiting the definition of “privilege” set forth in
R.C. § 2901.01.
   (c)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of unlawful
collection of a bodily substance. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, unlawful collection of a bodily substance is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (a) of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, unlawful collection of a bodily
substance is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.15)
CHAPTER 642: OFFENSES RELATING TO PROPERTY
Section
642.01   Definitions
642.02   Possession of municipal property
642.03   Unauthorized use of property
642.04   Injuring vines, bushes, trees or crops
642.05   Desecration
642.06   Arson
642.07   Determining property value in arson
642.08   Criminal damaging or endangering; vehicular vandalism
642.09   Criminal mischief
642.10   Criminal trespass
642.11   Aggravated trespass
642.12   Assaulting police dog or horse, or assistance dog
642.13   Railroad vandalism; criminal trespass; interference with operation of
train; grade crossing device vandalism
Cross-reference:
   Alteration, injury, removal of traffic-control devices, see §
414.08
   Definitions generally, see §
606.01
   Detention of shoplifters and those committing motion picture piracy;
protection of institutional property, see §
608.17
   Disposition of unclaimed or forfeited property held by Police Department,
see §
608.16
   Endangering aircraft and airport operations, see §
678.11
   “Physical harm to property” defined, see §
606.01
   Possessing criminal tools, see §
678.12
   “Property” defined, see §
606.01
   “Serious physical harm to property” defined, see §
606.01
   Theft and fraud, see
Ch. 672
Statutory reference:
   Parents’ liability for destructive acts of their children, see R.C. §
3109.09
   Value of written instrument or evidence of debt, see R.C. § 1.07
§ 642.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter and Chapter 672, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   (a)   “Active duty service member.” Any member of the armed forces of the
United States performing active duty under Title 10 of the United States Code.
   (b)   “Anhydrous ammonia.” A compound formed by the combination of two
gaseous elements, nitrogen and hydrogen, in the manner described below.
“Anhydrous ammonia” is one part nitrogen to three parts hydrogen (NH3).
“Anhydrous ammonia” by weight is 14 parts nitrogen to three parts hydrogen,
which is approximately 82% nitrogen to 18% hydrogen.
   (c)   “Assistance dog.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 955.011.
   (d)   “Cable television service.” Any services provided by or through the
facilities of any cable television system or other similar closed circuit
coaxial cable communications system, or any microwave or similar transmission
service used in connection with any cable television system or other similar
closed circuit coaxial cable communications system.
   (e)   “Coin machine.” Any mechanical or electronic device designed to do
both of the following:
      (1)   Receive a coin or bill, or token made for that purpose;
      (2)   In return for the insertion or deposit of a coin, bill or token,
automatically dispense property, provide a service or grant a license.
   (f)   “Computer.” An electronic device that performs logical, arithmetic and
memory functions by the manipulation of electronic or magnetic impulses.
“Computer” includes but is not limited to all input, output, processing,
storage, computer program or communication facilities that are connected, or
related, in a computer system or network to an electronic device of that
nature.
   (g)   “Computer contaminant.” A computer program that is designed to modify,
damage, destroy, disable, deny or degrade access to, allow unauthorized access
to, functionally impair, record or transmit information within a computer,
computer system, or computer network without the express or implied consent of
the owner or other person authorized to give consent and that is of a type or
kind described in divisions (1) through (4) of this definition or of a type or
kind similar to a type or kind described in divisions (1) through (4) of this
definition:
      (1)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “viruses” and
“worms” that are self-replicating or self-propagating and that are designed to
contaminate other computer programs, compromise computer security, consume
computer resources, modify, destroy, record or transmit data, or disrupt the
normal operation of the computer, computer system or computer network;
      (2)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “Trojans” or “Trojan
horses” that are not self-replicating or self-propagating and that are designed
to compromise computer security, consume computer resources, modify, destroy,
record or transmit data, or disrupt the normal operation of the computer,
computer system or computer network;
      (3)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “zombies” that are
designed to use a computer without the knowledge and consent of the owner, or
other person authorized to give consent, and that are designed to send large
quantities of data to a targeted computer network for the purpose of degrading
the targeted computer’s or network’s performance, or denying access through the
network to the targeted computer or network, resulting in what is commonly
known as “denial of service” or “distributed denial of service” attacks;
      (4)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “trap doors”, “back
doors”, or “root kits” that are designed to bypass standard authentication
software and that are designed to allow access or use of a computer without the
knowledge or consent of the owner, or other person authorized to give consent.
   (h)   “Computer hacking.”
      (1)   “Computer hacking” means any of the following:
         A.   Gaining access or attempting to gain access to all or part of a
computer, computer system or a computer network without express or implied
authorization with the intent to defraud or with intent to commit a crime;
         B.   Misusing computer or network services, including but not limited
to mail transfer programs, file transfer programs, proxy servers and web
servers, by performing functions not authorized by the owner of the computer,
computer system, or computer network or other person authorized to give
consent. As used in this division, “misuse of computer and network services”
includes but is not limited to the unauthorized use of any of the following:
            1.   Mail transfer programs to send mail to persons other than the
authorized users of that computer or computer network;
            2.   File transfer program services or proxy servers to access
other computers, computer systems or computer networks;
            3.   Web servers to redirect users to other web pages or web
servers.
         C.   1.   Subject to division (1)C.2. of this definition, using a
group of computer programs commonly known as “port scanners” or “probes” to
intentionally access any computer, computer system or computer network without
the permission of the owner of the computer, computer system or computer
network or other person authorized to give consent. The group of computer
programs referred to in this division includes but is not limited to those
computer programs that use a computer network to access a computer, computer
system or another computer network to determine any of the following: the
presence or types of computers or computer systems on a network; the computer
network’s facilities and capabilities; the availability of computer or network
services; the presence or versions of computer software including but not
limited to operating systems, computer services or computer contaminants; the
presence of a known computer software deficiency that can be used to gain
unauthorized access to a computer, computer system or computer network; or any
other information about a computer, computer system or computer network not
necessary for the normal and lawful operation of the computer initiating the
access.
            2.   The group of computer programs referred to in division (1)C.1.
of this definition does not include standard computer software used for the
normal operation, administration, management and test of a computer, computer
system or computer network, including but not limited to domain name services,
mail transfer services and other operating system services, computer programs
commonly called “ping”, “tcpdump”, and “traceroute” and other network
monitoring and management computer software, and computer programs commonly
knows as “nslookup” and “whois” and other systems administration computer
software.
         D.   The intentional use of a computer, computer system or a computer
network in a manner that exceeds any right or permission granted by the owner
of the computer, computer system or computer network or other person authorized
to give consent.
      (2)   “Computer hacking” does not include the introduction of a computer
contaminant, as defined in this section, into a computer, computer system,
computer program or computer network.
   (i)   “Computer network.” A set of related and remotely-connected computers
and communication facilities that includes more than one computer system that
has the capability to transmit among the connected computers and communication
facilities through the use of computer facilities.
   (j)   “Computer program.” An ordered set of data representing coded
instructions or statements that, when executed by a computer, causes the
computer to process data.
   (k)   “Computer services.” Includes but is not limited to the use of a
computer system, computer network, computer program, data that is prepared for
computer use, or data that is contained within a computer system or computer
network.
   (l)   “Computer software.” Computer programs, procedures and other
documentation associated with the operation of a computer system.
   (m)   “Computer system.” A computer and related devices, whether connected
or unconnected, including but not limited to data input, output and storage
devices, data communications links, and computer programs and data that make
the system capable of performing specified special purpose data processing
tasks.
   (n)   “Counterfeit telecommunications device.” A telecommunications device
that, alone or with another telecommunications device, has been altered,
constructed, manufactured or programmed to acquire, intercept, receive or
otherwise facilitate the use of a telecommunications service or information
service without the authority or consent of the provider of the
telecommunications service or information service. The phrase includes but is
not limited to a clone telephone, clone microchip, tumbler telephone or tumbler
microchip; a wireless scanning device capable of acquiring, intercepting,
receiving or otherwise facilitating the use of telecommunications service or
information service without immediate detection; or a device, equipment,
hardware or software designed for, or capable of, altering or changing the
electronic serial number in a wireless telephone.
   (o)   “Create a substantial risk of serious physical harm to any person.”
Includes the creation of a substantial risk of serious physical harm to any
emergency personnel.
   (p)   “Credit card.” Includes but is not limited to a card, code, device or
other means of access to a customer’s account for the purpose of obtaining
money, property, labor or services on credit, or for initiating an electronic
fund transfer at a point-of-sale terminal, an automated teller machine, or a
cash dispensing machine. It also includes a county procurement card issued
under R.C. § 301.29.
   (q)   “Dangerous drug.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   (r)   “Data.” A representation of information, knowledge, facts, concepts or
instructions that are being or have been prepared in a formalized manner and
that are intended for use in a computer, computer system or computer network.
   (s)   “Deception.” To knowingly deceive another or cause another to be
deceived by any false or misleading representation, by withholding information,
by preventing another from acquiring information, or by any other conduct, act
or omission that creates, confirms or perpetuates a false impression in
another, including a false impression as to law, value, state of mind or other
objective or subjective fact.
   (t)   “Defraud.” To knowingly obtain, by deception, some benefit for oneself
or another, or to knowingly cause, by deception, some detriment to another.
   (u)   “Deprive.” To do any of the following:
      (1)   To withhold property of another permanently, or for a period that
appropriates a substantial portion of its value or use, or with purpose to
restore it only upon payment of a reward or other consideration;
      (2)   To dispose of property so as to make it unlikely that the owner
will recover it;
      (3)   To accept, use or appropriate money, property or services, with
purpose not to give proper consideration in return for the money, property or
services, and without reasonable justification or excuse for not giving proper
consideration.
   (v)   “Disabled adult.” A person who is 18 years of age or older and has
some impairment of body or mind that makes the person unable to work at any
substantially remunerative employment that the person otherwise would be able
to perform and that will, with reasonable probability, continue for a period of
at least 12 months without any present indication of recovery from the
impairment, or who is 18 years of age or older and has been certified as
permanently and totally disabled by an agency of this state or the United
States that has the function of so classifying persons.
   (w)   “Drug abuse offense.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   (x)   “Elderly person.” A person who is 65 years of age or older.
   (y)   “Electronic fund transfer.” Has the same meaning as in 92 Stat. 3728,
15 U.S.C. § 1693a, as amended.
   (z)   “Emergency personnel.” Any of the following persons:
      (1)   A peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 2935.01;
      (2)   A member of a fire department or other firefighting agency of a
municipal corporation, township, township fire district, joint fire district,
other political subdivision or combination of political subdivisions;
      (3)   A member of a private fire company, as defined in R.C. § 9.60, or a
volunteer firefighter;
      (4)   A member of a joint ambulance district or joint emergency medical
services district;
      (5)   An emergency medical technician-basic, emergency medical
technician- intermediate, emergency medical technician-paramedic, ambulance
operator or other member of an emergency medical service that is owned of
operated by a political subdivision or a private entity;
      (6)   The State Fire Marshal, the Chief Deputy State Fire Marshal or an
assistant state fire marshal;
      (7)   A fire prevention officer of a political subdivision or an arson,
fire or similar investigator of a political subdivision.
   (aa)   “Federally-licensed firearms dealer.” Has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 5502.63.
   (bb)   “Firearm” and “dangerous ordnance.” Have the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2923.11.
   (cc)   “Forge.” To fabricate or create, in whole or in part and by any
means, any spurious writing, or to make, execute, alter, complete, reproduce or
otherwise purport to authenticate any writing, when the writing in fact is not
authenticated by that conduct.
   (dd)   “Gain access.” To approach, instruct, communicate with, store data
in, retrieve data from or otherwise make use of any resources of a computer,
computer system or computer network, or any cable service or cable system both
as defined in R.C. § 2913.04.
   (ee)   “Information service.”
      (1)   Subject to division (2) of this definition, the offering of a
capability for generating, acquiring, storing, transforming, processing,
retrieving, utilizing or making available information via telecommunications,
including but not limited to electronic publishing.
      (2)   “Information service” does not include any use of a capability of a
type described in division (1) of this definition for the management, control
or operation of a telecommunications system or the management of a
telecommunications service.
   (ff)   “Internet.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 341.42.
   (gg)   “Motor vehicle.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   (hh)   “Occupied structure.” Any house, building, outbuilding, watercraft,
aircraft, railroad car, truck, trailer, tent or other structure, vehicle or
shelter, or any portion thereof, to which any of the following applies:
      (1)   It is maintained as a permanent or temporary dwelling, even though
it is temporarily unoccupied and whether or not any person is actually present;
      (2)   At the time, it is occupied as the permanent or temporary
habitation of any person, whether or not any person is actually present;
      (3)   At the time, it is specially adapted for the overnight
accommodation of any person, whether or not any person is actually present;
      (4)   At the time, any person is present or likely to be present in it.
   (ii)   “Owner.” Unless the context requires a different meaning, any person,
other than the actor, who is the owner of, who has possession or control of, or
who has any license or interest in property or services, even though the
ownership, possession, control, license or interest is unlawful.
   (jj)   “Police dog or horse.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.321.
   (kk)   “Political subdivision.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2744.01.
   (ll)   “Rented property.” Personal property in which the right of possession
and use of the property is for a short and possibly indeterminate term in
return for consideration; the rentee generally controls the duration of
possession of the property within any applicable minimum or maximum term; and
the amount of consideration is generally determined by the duration of
possession of the property.
   (mm)   “Services.” Includes labor, personal services, professional services,
rental services, public utility services including wireless service as defined
in R.C. § 128.01(F)(1), common carrier services, and food, drink,
transportation, entertainment and cable television services and, for purposes
of R.C. § 2913.04 or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, includes
cable services as defined in that section.
   (nn)   “Slug.” An object that, by virtue of its size, shape, composition or
other quality, is capable of being inserted or deposited in a coin machine as
an improper substitute for a genuine coin, bill or token made for that purpose.
   (oo)   “State.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2744.01.
   (pp)   “Telecommunication.” The origination, emission, dissemination,
transmission or reception of data, images, signals, sounds or other
intelligence or equivalence or intelligence of any nature over any
communications system by any method, including but not limited to a fiber
optic, electronic, magnetic, optical, digital or analog method.
   (qq)   “Telecommunications device.” Any instrument, equipment, machine or
other device that facilitates telecommunication, including but not limited to a
computer, computer network, computer chip, computer circuit, scanner,
telephone, cellular telephone, pager, personal communications device,
transponder, receiver, radio, modem or device that enables the use of a modem.
   (rr)   “Telecommunications service.” The providing, allowing, facilitating
or generating of any form of telecommunication through the use of a
telecommunications device over a telecommunications system.
   (ss)   “Theft offense.” Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2911.12, 2911.13,
2911.31, 2911.32, 2913.02, 2913.03, 2913.04, 2913.041, 2913.11, 2913.21,
2913.31, 2913.32, 2913.33, 2913.34, 2913.40, 2913.42, 2913.43, 2913.44,
2913.45, 2913.47, 2913.48, former R.C. § 2913.47 or 2913.48, or R.C. § 2913.51,
2915.05, or 2921.41;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States substantially equivalent to any
section listed in division (1) of this definition, or a violation of R.C. §
2913.41, 2913.81 or 2915.06 as it existed prior to July 1, 1996;
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former municipal ordinance or law
of this or any other state or the United States involving robbery, burglary,
breaking and entering, theft, embezzlement, wrongful conversion, forgery,
counterfeiting, deceit or fraud;
      (4)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing any offense under division (1), (2) or (3) of this definition.
   (tt)   “Utter.” To issue, publish, transfer, use, put or send into
circulation, deliver or display.
   (uu)   “Writing.” Any computer software, document, letter, memorandum, note,
paper, plate, data, film or other thing having in or upon it any written, type-
written or printed matter, and any token, stamp, seal, credit card, badge,
trademark, label or other symbol of value, right, privilege, license or
identification.
(R.C. § 2909.01, 2913.01)
§ 642.02 POSSESSION OF MUNICIPAL PROPERTY.
   (a)   No person shall, without being authorized, have in his or her control
or possession any equipment, tools, implements or other property belonging to
the municipality.
(R.C. § 5589.12)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 5589.99(B))
§ 642.03 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF PROPERTY.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly use or operate the property of another
without the consent of the owner or person authorized to give consent.
   (b)   No person, in any manner and by any means, including but not limited
to computer hacking, shall knowingly gain access to, attempt to gain access to,
or cause access to be gained to any computer, computer system, computer
network, cable service, cable system, telecommunications device,
telecommunications service or information service without the consent of, or
beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of, the owner of the
computer, computer system, computer network, cable service, cable system,
telecommunications device, telecommunications service or information service or
other person authorized to give consent.
   (c)   Except as permitted under R.C. § 5503.101, no person shall knowingly
gain access to, attempt to gain access to, cause access to be granted to, or
disseminate information gained from access to the law enforcement automated
database system created pursuant to R.C. § 5503.10 without the consent of, or
beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of, the chair of the Law
Enforcement Automated Data System Steering Committee.
   (d)   No person shall knowingly gain access to, attempt to gain access to,
cause access to be granted to, or disseminate information gained from access to
the Ohio law enforcement gateway established and operated pursuant to R.C. §
109.57(C)(1) without the consent of, or beyond the scope of the express or
implied consent of, the Superintendent of the Bureau of Criminal Identification
and Investigation.
   (e)   The affirmative defenses contained in R.C. § 2913.03(C) are
affirmative defenses to a charge under this section.
   (f)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of property. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
unauthorized use of property is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (1)   If unauthorized use of property is committed for the purpose of
devising or executing a scheme to defraud or to obtain property or services,
unauthorized use of property is whichever of the following is applicable:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided below, unauthorized use of property
is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         B.   If the value of the property or services or the loss to the
victim is $1,000 or more, it is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (2)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled
adult, unauthorized use of property is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (g)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of computer, cable or telecommunication property, a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (h)   Whoever violates division (c) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of the law enforcement automated database system, a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (i)   Whoever violates division (d) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of the Ohio law enforcement gateway, a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
   (j)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Cable operator.” Any person or group of persons that does either
of the following:
         A.   Provides cable service over a cable system and directly through
one or more affiliates owns a significant interest in that cable system;
         B.   Otherwise controls or is responsible for, through any
arrangement, the management and operation of a cable system.
      (2)   “Cable service.” Any of the following:
         A.   The one-way transmission to subscribers of video programming or
of information that a cable operator makes available to all subscribers
generally;
         B.   Subscriber interaction, if any, that is required for the
selection or use of video programming or of information that a cable operator
makes available to all subscribers generally, both as described in division (f)
(2)A. above;
         C.   Any cable television service.
      (3)   “Cable system.” Any facility, consisting of a set of closed
transmission paths and associated signal generation, reception and control
equipment that is designed to provide cable service that includes video
programming and that is provided to multiple subscribers within a community.
“Cable system” does not include any of the following:
         A.   Any facility that serves only to retransmit the television
signals of one or more television broadcast stations;
         B.   Any facility that serves subscribers without using any public
right-of-way;
         C.   Any facility of a common carrier that, under 47 U.S.C. § 522(7)
(c), is excluded from the term “cable system” as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(7);
         D.   Any open video system that complies with 47 U.S.C. § 573;
         E.   Any facility of any electric utility used solely for operating
its electric utility system.
(R.C. § 2913.04)
Statutory reference:
   Telecommunications: fraud and unlawful use of a device, felony offenses, see
R.C. § 2913.05     and 2913.06
§ 642.04 INJURING VINES, BUSHES, TREES OR CROPS.
   (a)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall recklessly cut down,
destroy, girdle or otherwise injure a vine, bush, shrub, sapling, tree or crop
standing or growing on the land of another or upon public land.
   (b)   In addition to the penalty provided in division (c) of this section,
whoever violates this section is liable in treble damages for the injury
caused.
(R.C. § 901.51)
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 901.99(A))
§ 642.05 DESECRATION.
   (a)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall purposely deface, damage,
pollute or otherwise physically mistreat any of the following:
      (1)   Any public monument;
      (2)   Any historical or commemorative marker, or any structure, Indian
mound or earthwork, cemetery, thing or site of great historical or
archeological interest;
      (3)   A place of worship, its furnishings or religious artifacts or
sacred texts within the place of worship or within the grounds upon which the
place of worship is located;
      (4)   A work of art or museum piece;
      (5)   Any other object of reverence or sacred devotion.
   (b)   As used in this section, “cemetery” means any place of burial and
includes burial sites that contain American Indian burial objects placed with
or containing American Indian human remains.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of desecration. A violation of
division (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(4) or (a)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the second degree. A violation of division (a)(3) of this section is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.11)
§ 642.06 ARSON.
   (a)   No person, by means of fire or explosion, shall knowingly do any of
the following:
      (1)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
property of another without the other person’s consent;
      (2)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
property of the offender or another, with purpose to defraud;
      (3)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to the
statehouse or a courthouse, school building, or other building or structure
that is owned or controlled by the state, any political subdivision, or any
department, agency, or instrumentality of the state or a political subdivision,
and that is used for public purposes;
      (4)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm, through the
offer or the acceptance of an agreement for hire or other consideration, to any
property of another without the other person’s consent or to any property of
the offender or another with purpose to defraud;
      (5)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any park,
preserve, wildlands, brush-covered land, cut-over land, forest, timberland,
greenlands, woods, or similar real property that is owned or controlled by
another person, the state, or a political subdivision without the consent of
the other person, the state, or the political subdivision;
      (6)   With purpose to defraud, cause, or create a substantial risk of,
physical harm to any park, preserve, wildlands, brush-covered land, cut-over
land, forest, timberland, greenlands, woods, or similar real property that is
owned or controlled by the offender, another person, the state, or a political
subdivision.
   (b)   No person, by means of fire or explosion, shall knowingly do any of
the following:
      (1)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
structure of another that is not an occupied structure;
      (2)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm, through the
offer or the acceptance of an agreement for hire or other consideration, to any
structure of another that is not an occupied structure;
      (3)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
structure that is not an occupied structure and that is in or on any park,
preserve, wildlands, brush-covered land, cut-over land, forest, timberland,
greenlands, woods, or similar real property that is owned or controlled by
another person, the state, or a political subdivision.
   (c)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (b)(1)
or (b)(2) of this section that the defendant acted with the consent of the
other person.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (b)(3) of
this section that the defendant acted with the consent of the other person, the
state, or the political subdivision.
   (d)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of arson.
      (2)   A violation of division (a)(1) or (b)(1) of this section is one of
the following:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (d)(2)B. of this
section, a misdemeanor of the first degree;
         B.   If the value of the property or the amount of the physical harm
involved is $1,000 or more, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (3)   A violation of division (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5), (a)(6), (b)
(2) or (b)(3) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2909.03)
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated arson, felony provisions, see R.C. § 2909.02
   Convicted arsonist to make restitution to public agency, see R.C. § 2929.28
§ 642.07 DETERMINING PROPERTY VALUE IN ARSON.
   (a)   The following criteria shall be used in determining the value of
property or amount of physical harm involved in a violation of §
642.06(a)(1) or (b)(1):
      (1)   If the property is an heirloom, memento, collector’s item, antique,
museum piece, manuscript, document, record or other thing that is either
irreplaceable or is replaceable only on the expenditure of substantial time,
effort, or money, the value of the property or the amount of physical harm
involved is the amount that would compensate the owner for its loss.
      (2)   If the property is not covered under division (a)(1) of this
section, and the physical harm is such that the property can be restored
substantially to its former condition, the amount of physical harm involved is
the reasonable cost of restoring the property.
      (3)   If the property is not covered under division (a)(1) of this
section, and the physical harm is such that the property cannot be restored
substantially to its former condition, the value of the property, in the case
of personal property, is the cost of replacing the property with new property
of like kind and quality, and in the case of real property or real property
fixtures, is the difference in the fair market value of the property
immediately before and immediately after the offense.
   (b)   As used in this section, “fair market value” has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 2913.61.
   (c)   Prima facie evidence of the value of property, as provided in R.C. §
2913.61(D), may be used to establish the value of property pursuant to this
section.
(R.C. § 2909.11(B) - (D))
§ 642.08 CRIMINAL DAMAGING OR ENDANGERING; VEHICULAR VANDALISM.
   (a)   Criminal Damaging or Endangering.
      (1)   No person shall cause or create a substantial risk of physical harm
to any property of another without the other person’s consent:
         A.   Knowingly, by any means; or
         B.   Recklessly, by means of fire, explosion, flood, poison gas,
poison, radioactive material, caustic or corrosive material, or other
inherently dangerous agency or substance.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (a) is guilty of criminal damaging
or endangering, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If violation of this
division (a) creates a risk of physical harm to any person, criminal damaging
or endangering is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the property involved
in a violation of this division (a) is an aircraft, an aircraft engine,
propeller, appliance, spare part or any other equipment or implement used or
intended to be used in the operation of an aircraft and if the violation
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, criminal damaging or endangering
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the property
involved in a violation of this division (a) is an aircraft, an aircraft
engine, propeller, appliance, spare part or any other equipment or implement
used or intended to be used in the operation of an aircraft and if the
violation creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person or if the
property involved in a violation of this division (a) is an occupied aircraft,
criminal damaging or endangering is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2909.06)
   (b)   Vehicular Vandalism.
      (1)   For the purpose of this division (b), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         A.   “Alley,” “street,” and “vehicle.” Have the same meanings as in
R.C. § 4511.01.
         B.   “Highway.” Any highway as defined in R.C. § 4511.01 or any lane,
road, street, alley, bridge or overpass.
         C.   “Vessel” and “waters in this state.” Have the same meanings as in
R.C. § 1546.01.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly, and by any means, drop or throw any
object at, onto or in the path of any of the following:
         A.   Any vehicle on a highway;
         B.   Any boat or vessel on any of the waters in this state.
      (3)   Whoever violates this division (b) is guilty of vehicular
vandalism. Except as otherwise provided in this division (b)(3), vehicular
vandalism is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation of this
division (b) creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person or the
violation of this division (b) causes serious physical harm to property,
vehicular vandalism is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
If the violation of this division (b) causes physical harm to any person or
serious physical harm to any person, vehicular vandalism is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.09)
Statutory reference:
   Disrupting public services, felony offense, see R.C. § 2909.04
   Railroad grade crossing device vandalism, see R.C. § 2909.101
   Railroad vandalism, see R.C. § 2909.10
   Vandalism, felony offense, see R.C. § 2909.05
§ 642.09 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   (a)   No person shall:
      (1)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage,
destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with the either of the following:
         A.   The property of another;
         B.   One’s own residential real property with the purpose to decrease
the value of or enjoyment of the residential real property, if both of the
following apply:
            1.   The residential real property is subject to a mortgage.
            2.   The person has been served with a summons and complaint in a
pending residential mortgage loan foreclosure action relating to that real
property. As used in this division, “pending” includes the time between
judgment entry and confirmation of sale.
      (2)   With purpose to interfere with the use or enjoyment of property of
another, employ a tear gas device, stink bomb, smoke generator or other device
releasing a substance that is harmful or offensive to persons exposed, or that
tends to cause public alarm;
      (3)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage, destroy
or otherwise improperly tamper with a bench mark, triangulation station,
boundary marker or other survey station, monument or marker;
      (4)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage, destroy
or otherwise improperly tamper with any safety device, the property of another,
or the property of the offender when required or placed for the safety of
others, so as to destroy or diminish its effectiveness or availability for its
intended purpose;
      (5)   With purpose to interfere with the use or enjoyment of the property
of another, set a fire on the land of another or place personal property that
has been set on fire on the land of another, which fire or personal property is
outside and apart from any building, other structure, or personal property that
is on that land;
      (6)   Without privilege to do so, and with intent to impair the
functioning of any computer, computer system, computer network, computer
software or computer program, knowingly do any of the following:
         A.   In any manner or by any means, including but not limited to
computer hacking, alter, damage, destroy or modify a computer, computer system,
computer network, computer software, or computer program or data contained in a
computer, computer system, computer network, computer software or computer
program;
         B.   Introduce a computer contaminant into a computer, computer
system, computer network, computer software or computer program.
      (7)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly destroy or improperly tamper
with a critical infrastructure facility.
   (b)   As used in this section:
      (1)   "Critical infrastructure facility." Has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2911.21.
      (2)   "Improperly tamper." Means to change the physical location or the
physical condition of the property.
      (3)   "Safety device." Means any fire extinguisher, fire hose, or fire
axe, or any fire escape, emergency exit, or emergency escape equipment, or any
life line, life-saving ring, life preserver, or life boat or raft, or any
alarm, light, flare, signal, sign, or notice intended to warn of danger or
emergency, or intended for other safety purposes, or any guard railing or
safety barricade, or any traffic sign or signal, or any railroad grade crossing
sign, signal, or gate, or any first aid or survival equipment, or any other
device, apparatus, or equipment intended for protecting or preserving the
safety of persons or property.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal mischief,
and shall be punished as provided in division (c)(2), (c)(3), or (c)(4) of this
section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4), or (a)(5) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the third degree. Except as otherwise provided
in this division, if the violation of division (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4),
or (a)(5) of this section creates a risk of physical harm to any person,
criminal mischief committed in violation of division (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3),
(a)(4), or (a)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
property involved in the violation of division (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4),
or (a)(5) of this section is an aircraft, an aircraft engine, propeller,
appliance, spare part, fuel, lubricant, hydraulic fluid, any other equipment,
implement, or material used or intended to be used in the operation of an
aircraft, or any cargo carried or intended to be carried in an aircraft and if
the violation creates any risk of physical harm to any person, or if the
aircraft in question is an occupied aircraft, criminal mischief committed in
violation of division (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4), or (a)(5) of this section
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (a)(6) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the value of the computer, computer system, computer
network, computer software, computer program, or data involved in the violation
of division (a)(6) of this section or the loss to the victim resulting from the
violation is $1,000 or more, or if the computer, computer system, computer
network, computer software, computer program, or data involved in the violation
of division (a)(6) is used or intended to be used in the operation of an
aircraft and the violation creates any risk of physical harm to any person, or
if the aircraft in question is an occupied aircraft, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (a)(6) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Criminal mischief committed in violation of division (a)(7) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.07)
§ 642.10 CRIMINAL TRESPASS.
   (a)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly enter or remain on the land or premises of another;
      (2)   Knowingly enter or remain on the land or premises of another, the
use of which is lawfully restricted to certain persons, purposes, modes or
hours, when the offender knows the offender is in violation of any such
restriction or is reckless in that regard;
      (3)   Recklessly enter or remain on the land or premises of another, as
to which notice against unauthorized access or presence is given by actual
communication to the offender, or in a manner prescribed by law, or by posting
in a manner reasonably calculated to come to the attention of potential
intruders, or by fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to restrict
access;
      (4)   Being on the land or premises of another, negligently fail or
refuse to leave upon being notified by signage posted in a conspicuous place or
otherwise being notified to do so by the owner or occupant, or the agent or
servant of either;
      (5)   Knowingly enter or remain on a critical infrastructure facility.
   (b)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that the land or
premises involved was owned, controlled, or in custody of a public agency.
   (c)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that the offender was
authorized to enter or remain on the land or premises involved, when the
authorization was secured by deception.
   (d)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal trespass.
Criminal trespass in violation of division (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), or (a)(4) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Criminal trespass in
violation of division (a)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28, if the person, in committing the
violation of this section, used a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle, the court shall impose a fine of two times the usual amount
imposed for the violation.
      (3)   If an offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to two or more violations of this section, R.C. § 2911.21 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, and the offender, in committing each violation,
used a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle, the court, in
addition to or independent of all other penalties imposed for the violation,
may impound the certificate of registration of that snowmobile or off-highway
motorcycle or the certificate of registration and license plate of that all-
purpose vehicle for not less than 60 days. In such a case, R.C. § 4519.47
applies.
   (e)   Notwithstanding any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, if the
offender, in committing the violation of this section, used an all-purpose
vehicle, the Clerk of the Court shall pay the fine imposed pursuant to this
section to the State Recreational Vehicle Fund created by R.C. § 4519.11.
   (f)   As used in divisions (a) through (e) of this section:
      (1)   "All-purpose vehicle", "off-highway motorcycle", and "snowmobile".
Have the same meanings as in R.C. § 4519.01.
      (2)   "Critical infrastructure facility." Means:
         A.   One of the following, if completely enclosed by a fence or other
physical barrier that is obviously designed to exclude intruders, or if clearly
marked with signs that are reasonably likely to come to the attention of
potential intruders and that indicate entry is forbidden without site
authorization:
            1.   A petroleum or alumina refinery;
            2.   An electric generating facility, substation, switching
station, electrical control center, or electric transmission and distribution
lines and associated equipment;
            3.   A chemical, polymer, or rubber manufacturing facility;
            4.   A water intake structure, water treatment facility, waste
water facility, drainage facility, water management facility, or any similar
water or sewage treatment system and its water and sewage piping;
            5.   A natural gas company facility or interstate natural gas
pipeline, including a pipeline interconnection, a natural gas compressor
station and associated facilities, city gate or town border station, metering
station, above-ground piping, regulator station, valve site, delivery station,
fabricated assembly, or any other part of a natural gas storage facility
involved in the gathering, storage, transmission, or distribution of gas;
            6.   A telecommunications central switching office or remote
switching facility or an equivalent network facility that serves a similar
purpose;
            7.   Wireline or wireless telecommunications infrastructure,
including telecommunications towers and telephone poles and lines, including
fiber optic lines;
            8.   A port, trucking terminal, or other freight transportation
facility;
            9.   A gas processing plant, including a plant used in the
processing, treatment, or fractionation of natural gas or natural gas liquids;
            10.   A transmission facility used by a federally licensed radio or
television station;
            11.   A steel-making facility that uses an electric arc furnace to
make steel;
            12.   A facility identified and regulated by the United States
Department of Homeland Security's Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards
Program under 6 C.F.R. part 27;
            13.   A dam that is regulated by the state or federal government;
            14.   A crude oil or refined products storage and distribution
facility, including valve sites, pipeline interconnections, pump station,
metering station, below- or above-ground pipeline, or piping and truck loading
or off-loading facility;
            15.   A video service network and broadband infrastructure,
including associated buildings and facilities, video service headends, towers,
utility poles, and utility lines such as fiber optic lines. As used in this
division, "video service network" has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21;
            16.   Any above-ground portion of an oil, gas, hazardous liquid or
chemical pipeline, tank, or other storage facility;
            17.   Any above-ground portion of a well, well pad, or production
operation;
            18.   A laydown area or construction site for pipe and other
equipment intended for use on an interstate or intrastate natural gas or crude
oil pipeline;
            19.   Any mining operation, including any processing equipment,
batching operation, or support facility for that mining operation.
         B.   With respect to a video service network or broadband or wireless
telecommunications infrastructure, the above-ground portion of a facility
installed in a public right-of-way on a utility pole or in a conduit;
         C.   Any railroad property;
         D.   An electronic asset of any of the following:
            1.   An electric light company that is a public utility under R.C.
§ 4905.02;
            2.   An electric cooperative, as defined in R.C. § 4928.01;
            3.   A municipal electric utility, as defined in R.C. § 4928.01;
            4.   A natural gas company that is a public utility under R.C. §
4905.02;
            5.   A telephone company that is a public utility under R.C. §
4905.02;
            6.   A video service provider, including a cable operator, as those
terms are defined in R.C. § 1332.21.
      (3)   "Electronic asset." Includes, but is not limited to, the hardware,
software, and data of a programmable electronic device; all communications,
operations, and customer data networks; and the contents of those data
networks.
      (4)   "Land" or "premises." Includes any land, building, structure, or
place belonging to, controlled by, or in custody of another, and any separate
enclosure or room, or portion thereof.
      (5)   "Production operation", "well," and "well pad." Have the same
meanings as in R.C. § 1509.01.
(R.C. § 2911.21)
   (g)   Criminal Trespass on a Place of Public Amusement.
      (1)   As used in this division (g), “place of public amusement” means a
stadium, theater or other facility, whether licensed or not, at which a live
performance, sporting event or other activity takes place for entertainment of
the public and to which access is made available to the public, regardless of
whether admission is charged.
      (2)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly enter or
remain on any restricted portion of a place of public amusement and, as a
result of that conduct, interrupt or cause the delay of the live performance,
sporting event, or other activity taking place at the place of public amusement
after a printed written notice has been given as provided in division (g)(4)A.
of this section that the general public is restricted from access to that
restricted portion of the place of public amusement. A restricted portion of a
place of public amusement may include but is not limited to a playing field, an
athletic surface or a stage located at the place of public amusement.
      (3)   An owner or lessee of a place of public amusement, an agent of the
owner or lessee, or a performer or participant at a place of public amusement
may use reasonable force to restrain and remove a person from a restricted
portion of the place of public amusement if the person enters or remains on the
restricted portion of the place of public amusement and, as a result of that
conduct, interrupts or causes the delay of the live performance, sporting event
or other activity taking place at the place of public amusement. This division
does not provide immunity from criminal liability for any use of force beyond
reasonable force by an owner or lessee of a place of public amusement, an agent
of either the owner or lessee, or a performer or participant at a place of
public amusement.
      (4)   A.   Notice has been given that the general public is restricted
from access to a portion of a place of public amusement if a printed written
notice of the restricted access has been conspicuously posted or exhibited at
the entrance to that portion of the place of public amusement. If a printed
written notice is posted or exhibited as described in this division regarding a
portion of a place of public amusement, in addition to that posting or
exhibition, notice that the general public is restricted from access to that
portion of the place of public amusement also may be given, but is not required
to be given, by either of the following means:
            1.   By notifying the person personally, either orally or in
writing, that access to that portion of the place of public amusement is
restricted;
            2.   By broadcasting over the public address system of the place of
public amusement an oral warning that access to that portion of the place of
public amusement is restricted.
         B.   If notice that the general public is restricted from access to a
portion of a place of public amusement is provided by the posting or exhibition
of a printed written notice as described in division (g)(4)A. of this section,
the municipality, in a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (g)(2)
of this section, is not required to prove that the defendant received actual
notice that the general public is restricted from access to a portion of a
place of public amusement.
      (5)   A.   Whoever violates division (g)(2) of this section is guilty of
criminal trespass on a place of public amusement, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
         B.   In addition to any jail term, fine or other sentence, penalty or
sanction it imposes upon the offender pursuant to division (g)(5)A. of this
section, a court may require an offender who violates this section to perform
not less than 30 and not more than 120 hours of supervised community service
work.
(R.C. § 2911.23)
§ 642.11 AGGRAVATED TRESPASS.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall enter or remain on the land or premises of
another with purpose to commit on that land or those premises a misdemeanor,
the elements of which involve causing physical harm to another person or
causing another person to believe that the offender will cause physical harm to
that person.
      (2)   No person shall enter or remain on a critical infrastructure
facility with purpose to destroy or tamper with the facility.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of aggravated trespass.
Aggravated trespass in violation of division (a)(1) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. Aggravated trespass in violation of division
(a)(2) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
   (c)   As used in this section, "critical infrastructure facility" has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 2911.21.
(R.C. § 2911.211)
§ 642.12 ASSAULTING POLICE DOG OR HORSE, OR ASSISTANCE DOG.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly cause, or attempt to cause, physical harm to
a police dog or horse in either of the following circumstances:
      (1)   The police dog or horse is assisting a law enforcement officer in
the performance of the officer’s official duties at the time the physical harm
is caused or attempted.
      (2)   The police dog or horse is not assisting a law enforcement officer
in the performance of the officer’s official duties at the time the physical
harm is caused or attempted, but the offender has actual knowledge that the dog
or horse is a police dog or horse.
   (b)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following:
      (1)   Taunt, torment or strike a police dog or horse;
      (2)   Throw an object or substance at a police dog or horse;
      (3)   Interfere with or obstruct a police dog or horse, or interfere with
or obstruct a law enforcement officer who is being assisted by a police dog or
horse, in a manner that does any of the following:
         A.   Inhibits or restricts the law enforcement officer’s control of
the police dog or horse;
         B.   Deprives the law enforcement officer of control of the police dog
or horse;
         C.   Releases the police dog or horse from its area of control;
         D.   Enters the area of control of the police dog or horse without the
consent of the law enforcement officer, including placing food or any other
object or substance into that area;
         E.   Inhibits or restricts the ability of the police dog or horse to
assist a law enforcement officer.
      (4)   Engage in any conduct that is likely to cause serious physical
injury or death to a police dog or horse;
      (5)   If the person is the owner, keeper or harborer of a dog, fail to
reasonably restrain the dog from taunting, tormenting, chasing, approaching in
a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack, or attempting to bite or
otherwise endanger a police dog or horse that at the time of the conduct is
assisting a law enforcement officer in the performance of the officer’s duties
or that the person knows is a police dog or horse.
   (c)   No person shall knowingly cause, or attempt to cause, physical harm to
an assistance dog in either of the following circumstances:
      (1)   The dog is assisting or serving a blind, deaf or hearing impaired,
or mobility impaired person at the time the physical harm is caused or
attempted.
      (2)   The dog is not assisting or serving a blind, deaf or hearing
impaired, or mobility impaired person at the time the physical harm is caused
or attempted, but the offender has actual knowledge that the dog is an
assistance dog.
   (d)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following:
      (1)   Taunt, torment or strike an assistance dog;
      (2)   Throw an object or substance at an assistance dog;
      (3)   Interfere with or obstruct an assistance dog, or interfere with or
obstruct a blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility impaired person who is
being assisted or served by an assistance dog, in a manner that does any of the
following:
         A.   Inhibits or restricts the assisted or served person’s control of
the dog;
         B.   Deprives the assisted or served person of control of the dog;
         C.   Releases the dog from its area of control;
         D.   Enters the area of control of the dog without the consent of the
assisted or served person, including placing food or any other object or
substance into that area;
         E.   Inhibits or restricts the ability of the dog to assist the
assisted or served person;
      (4)   Engage in any conduct that is likely to cause serious physical
injury or death to an assistance dog;
      (5)   If the person is the owner, keeper or harborer of a dog, fail to
reasonably restrain the dog from taunting, tormenting, chasing, approaching in
a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack, or attempting to bite or
otherwise endanger an assistance dog that at the time of the conduct is
assisting or serving a blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility impaired
person or that the person knows is an assistance dog.
   (e)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of
assaulting a police dog or horse. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, assaulting a police dog or horse is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. If the violation results in physical harm to the police dog or horse
other than death or serious physical harm, assaulting a police dog or horse is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in serious physical
harm to the police dog or horse or results in its death, assaulting a police
dog or horse is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of
harassing a police dog or horse. Except as otherwise provided this division,
harassing a police dog or horse is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the police dog or horse but does not
result in its death or in serious physical harm to it, harassing a police dog
or horse is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in
serous physical harm to the police dog or horse or results in its death,
harassing a police dog or horse is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (c) of this section is guilty of
assaulting an assistance dog. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
assaulting an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the assistance dog other than death or
serious physical harm, assaulting an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the violation results in serious physical harm to the
assistance dog or results in its death, assaulting an assistance dog is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (d) of this section is guilty of
harassing an assistance dog. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
harassing an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the assistance dog but does not result in
the death or in serious physical harm to it, harassing an assistance dog is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in serious physical
harm to the assistance dog or results in its death, harassing an assistance dog
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   In addition to any other sanctions or penalty imposed for the
offense under this section, R.C. Chapter 2929 or any other provision of the
Revised Code or this code, whoever violates division (a), (b), (c) or (d) of
this section is responsible for the payment of all of the following:
         A.   Any veterinary bill or bill for medication incurred as a result
of the violation by the Police Department regarding a violation of division (a)
or (b) of this section or by the blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility
impaired person assisted or served by the assistance dog regarding a violation
of division (c) or (d) of this section;
         B.   The cost of any damaged equipment that results from the
violation;
         C.   If the violation did not result in the death of the police dog or
horse or the assistance dog that was the subject of the violation and if, as a
result of that dog or horse being the subject of the violation, the dog or
horse needs further training or retraining to be able to continue in the
capacity of a police dog or horse or an assistance dog, the cost of any further
training or retraining of that dog or horse by a law enforcement officer or by
the blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility impaired person assisted or
served by the assistance dog;
         D.   If the violation resulted in the death of the assistance dog that
was the subject of the violation or resulted in serious physical harm to the
police dog or horse or the assistance dog that was the subject of the violation
to the extent that the dog or horse needs to be replaced on either a temporary
or a permanent basis, the cost of replacing that dog or horse and of any
further training of a new police dog or horse or a new assistance dog by a law
enforcement officer or by the blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility
impaired person assisted or served by the assistance dog, which replacement or
training is required because of the death of or the serious physical harm to
the dog or horse that was the subject of the violation.
   (f)   This section does not apply to a licensed veterinarian whose conduct
is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4741.
   (g)   This section only applies to an offender who knows or should know at
the time of the violation that the police dog or horse or assistance dog that
is the subject of a violation under this section is a police dog or horse or an
assistance dog.
   (h)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Assistance dog”, “blind” and “mobility impaired person.” Have the
same meaning as in R.C. § 955.011.
      (2)   “Physical harm.” Any injury, illness or other psychological
impairment, regardless of its gravity or duration.
      (3)   “Police dog or horse.” A dog or horse that has been trained and may
be used to assist law enforcement officers in the performance of their official
duties.
      (4)   “Serious physical harm.” Any of the following:
         A.   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death.
         B.   Any physical harm that causes permanent maiming or that involves
some temporary, substantial maiming.
         C.   Any physical harm that causes acute pain of a duration that
results in substantial suffering.
(R.C. § 2921.321)
§ 642.13 RAILROAD VANDALISM; CRIMINAL TRESPASS; INTERFERENCE WITH OPERATION OF
TRAIN; GRADE CROSSING DEVICE VANDALISM.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly, and by any means, drop or throw any object
at, onto, or in the path of, any railroad rail, railroad track, locomotive,
engine, railroad car, or other vehicle of a railroad company while such vehicle
is on a railroad track.
   (b)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall climb upon or into any
locomotive, engine, railroad car, or other vehicle of a railroad company when
it is on a railroad track.
   (c)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall disrupt, delay, or
prevent the operation of any train or other vehicle of a railroad company while
such vehicle is on a railroad track.
   (d)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of railroad
vandalism. Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of criminal
trespass on a locomotive, engine, railroad car, or other railroad vehicle.
Whoever violates division (c) of this section is guilty of interference with
the operation of a train. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
railroad vandalism; criminal trespass on a locomotive, engine, railroad car, or
other railroad vehicle; and interference with the operation of a train each is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation of division (a), (b), or
(c) of this section causes serious physical harm to property or creates a
substantial risk of physical harm to any person, causes physical harm to any
person, or causes serious physical harm to any person, the violation is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.10)
   (e)   No person shall knowingly deface, damage, obstruct, remove, or
otherwise impair the operation of any railroad grade crossing warning signal or
other protective device, including any gate, bell, light, crossbuck, stop sign,
yield sign, advance warning sign, or advance pavement marking.
   (f)   Whoever violates division (e) of this section is guilty of railroad
grade crossing device vandalism. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
railroad grade crossing device vandalism is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the violation of division (e) of this section causes serious physical harm
to property or creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person,
causes physical harm to any person, or causes serious physical harm to any
person, railroad grade crossing device vandalism is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.101)
CHAPTER 648: PEACE DISTURBANCES
Section
648.01   Riot
648.02   Failure to disperse
648.03   Justifiable use of force to suppress riot
648.04   Disorderly conduct
648.05   Disturbing a lawful meeting
648.06   Misconduct at an emergency
648.07   Inducing panic
648.08   Making false alarms
648.09   Minor’s curfew
648.10   Hours for labor and transportation of machinery and materials
648.11   Inciting to violence
Cross-reference:
   Arson, see §
642.06
   Assault, see §§
636.02,
636.03
   Barking or howling dogs, see §
618.07
   “Deadly force” defined, see §
606.01
   Definitions generally, see §
606.01
   Desecration, see §
642.05
   Detention of shoplifters and those committing motion picture piracy;
protection of institutional property, see §
608.17
   Fireworks, see §
678.10
   “Force” defined, see §
606.01
   Interfering with civil rights, see §
608.13
   Liquor sale to intoxicated person, see §
612.03
   Menacing, see §§
636.04 et seq.
   Noisy mufflers, see §
438.21
   “Peeling”; cracking exhaust noises, see §
432.37
   Pointing and discharging firearms and other weapons, see §
678.09
   Resisting arrest, see §
608.08
   Sirens, whistles and bells on motor vehicles, see §
438.20
   Trespass, see §§
642.10,
642.11
Statutory reference:
   Cordoning off riot areas; prohibiting sales of firearms and explosives, see
R.C. § 3761.16
   Power to regulate peace disturbances, see R.C. § 715.49
   Riot and civil disorder assistance by State Highway Patrol, see R.C. §
5503.02
   Suspension of beer and liquor sales during emergency, see R.C. § 4301.251
§ 648.01 RIOT.
   (a)   No person shall participate with four or more others in a course of
disorderly conduct in violation of R.C. § 2917.11 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance:
      (1)   With purpose to commit or facilitate the commission of a
misdemeanor, other than disorderly conduct;
      (2)   With purpose to intimidate a public official or employee into
taking or refraining from official action, or with purpose to hinder, impede or
obstruct a function of government;
      (3)   With purpose to hinder, impede or obstruct the orderly process of
administration or instruction at an educational institution, or to interfere
with or disrupt lawful activities carried on at the institution.
   (b)   No person shall participate with four or more others with purpose to
do an act with unlawful force or violence, even though the act might otherwise
be lawful.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of riot, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 2917.03)
   (d)   For the purposes of prosecuting violations of this section, the
prosecution is not required to allege or prove that the offender expressly
agreed with four or more others to commit any act that constitutes a violation
this section prior to or while committing those acts.
(R.C. § 2917.031)
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated riot, felony provisions, see R.C. § 2917.02
§ 648.02 FAILURE TO DISPERSE.
   (a)   Where five or more persons are participating in a course of disorderly
conduct in violation of R.C. § 2917.11 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, and there are other persons in the vicinity whose presence creates
the likelihood of physical harm to persons or property or of serious public
inconvenience, annoyance or alarm, a law enforcement officer or other public
official may order the participants and the other persons to disperse. No
person shall knowingly fail to obey the order.
   (b)   Nothing in this section requires persons to disperse who are peaceably
assembled for a lawful purpose.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to disperse.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(3) of this section,
failure to disperse is a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   Failure to disperse is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if the
failure to obey the order described in division (a) of this section creates the
likelihood of physical harm to persons or is committed at the scene of a fire,
accident, disaster, riot or emergency of any kind.
(R.C. § 2917.04)
§ 648.03 JUSTIFIABLE USE OF FORCE TO SUPPRESS RIOT.
   A law enforcement officer or firefighter engaged in suppressing a riot or in
protecting persons or property during a riot:
   (a)   Is justified in using force, other than deadly force, when and to the
extent he or she has probable cause to believe such force is necessary to
disperse or apprehend rioters;
   (b)   Is justified in using force, including deadly force, when and to the
extent he or she has probable cause to believe such force is necessary to
disperse or apprehend rioters whose conduct is creating a substantial risk of
serious physical harm to persons.
(R.C. § 2917.05)
§ 648.04 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (a)   No person shall recklessly cause inconvenience, annoyance or alarm to
another, by doing any of the following:
      (1)   Engaging in fighting, in threatening harm to persons or property,
or in violent or turbulent behavior;
      (2)   Making an offensively coarse utterance, gesture or display, or
communicating unwarranted and grossly abusive language to any person;
      (3)   Insulting, taunting or challenging another, under circumstances in
which that conduct is likely to provoke a violent response;
      (4)   Hindering or preventing the movement of persons on a public street,
road, highway or right-of-way, or to, from, within or upon public or private
property, so as to interfere with the rights of others, and by any act that
serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender;
      (5)   Creating a condition that is physically offensive to persons or
that presents a risk of physical harm to persons or property, by any act that
serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender.
      (6)   Creating or causing the creation of noise so as to disturb or
disrupt the peace and quiet of any reasonable person of normal sensitivity,
including, but not limited to the following:
         A.   The emission of sound in such a manner as to be plainly audible
at a distance 75 feet from the building, structure, vehicle, equipment,
machinery, animal or fowl from which the sound is emanating.
   (b)   No person while voluntarily intoxicated shall do either of the
following:
      (1)   In a public place or in the presence of two or more persons, engage
in conduct likely to be offensive or to cause inconvenience, annoyance or alarm
to persons of ordinary sensibilities, which conduct the offender, if he or she
were not intoxicated, should know is likely to have that effect on others;
      (2)   Engage in conduct or create a condition that presents a risk of
physical harm to himself, herself or another, or to the property of another.
   (c)   Violation of any statute or ordinance of which an element is operating
a motor vehicle, locomotive, watercraft, aircraft or other vehicle while under
the influence of alcohol or any drug of abuse is not a violation of division
(b) of this section.
   (d)   If a person appears to an ordinary observer to be intoxicated, it is
probable cause to believe that the person is voluntarily intoxicated for
purposes of division (b) of this section.
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disorderly conduct.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (e)(2) and (e)(3) of this
section, disorderly conduct is a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Disorderly conduct is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if any of
the following applies:
         A.   The offender persists in disorderly conduct after reasonable
warning or request to desist.
         B.   The offense is committed in the vicinity of a school or in a
school safety zone.
         C.   The offense is committed in the presence of any law enforcement
officer, firefighter, rescuer, medical person, emergency medical services
person or other authorized person who is engaged in the person's duties at the
scene of a fire, accident, disaster, riot or emergency of any kind.
         D.   The offense is committed in the presence of any emergency
facility person who is engaged in the person's duties in an emergency facility.
      (3)   If an offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to three or more violations of division (b) of this section, R.C. § 2917.11(B),
or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a violation
of division (b) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (f)   For the purpose of this section the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   "Committed in the vicinity of a school." Has the same meaning as in
RC. § 2925.01.
      (2)   "Emergency facility." Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.04.
      (3)   "Emergency facility person." The singular of "emergency facility
personnel" as defined in RC. § 2909.04.
      (4)   "Emergency medical services person." The singular of "emergency
medical services personnel" as defined in RC. § 2133.21.
   (g)   Exemptions to (a) include the following:
      (1)   Sound emanating from scheduled events conducted, sponsored or
permitted by the village or schools;
      (2)   Construction operations occurring between the hours of 7:00 a.m.
and 9:00 p.m., provided that all equipment is operated in accordance with the
manufacturer's specifications and/or with all standard manufacturer's mufflers
and noise-reducing equipment in use and in proper operating condition;
      (3)   Construction operations conducted by the village as approved by
Village Council;
      (4)   The loading and/or unloading of commercial waste receptacles
between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. within 500 yards of any
residentially zoned property;
      (5)   Noise of safety signals, warning devices, emergency pressure relief
valves, and church bells;
      (6)   Noise resulting from any authorized emergency vehicle;
      (7)   Lawn mowers and other similar motorized landscaping equipment used
between 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. when operated with all the manufacturer's
standard muffler and/or sound reducing equipment in use and in proper operating
condition;
      (8)   Emergency work as authorized by the village; and
      (9)   Noise related to the discharge of blank ammunition when conducted
in conjunction with a funeral, patriotic event or such other activity as
specifically authorized by Mayor or Mayor's designee. (Ord. 12-2021, passed 8-
18-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Disorderly conduct, see R.C. §§ 2917.11
§ 648.05 DISTURBING A LAWFUL MEETING.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to prevent or disrupt a lawful meeting,
procession or gathering, shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Do any act which obstructs or interferes with the due conduct of
the meeting, procession or gathering.
      (2)   Make any utterance, gesture or display which outrages the
sensibilities of the group.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disturbing a lawful
meeting, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2917.12)
§ 648.06 MISCONDUCT AT AN EMERGENCY.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Hamper the lawful operations of any law enforcement officer,
firefighter, rescuer, medical person, emergency medical services person or
other authorized person engaged in the person’s duties at the scene of a fire,
accident, disaster, riot or emergency of any kind;
      (2)   Hamper the lawful activities of any emergency facility person who
is engaged in the person’s duties in an emergency facility;
      (3)   Fail to obey the lawful order of any law enforcement officer
engaged in the law enforcement officer’s duties at the scene of or in
connection with a fire, accident, disaster, riot or emergency of any kind.
   (b)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit access or deny
information to any news media representative in the lawful exercise of the news
media representative’s duties.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of misconduct at an emergency.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, misconduct at an emergency is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If violation of this section creates a risk
of physical harm to persons or property, misconduct at an emergency is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (d)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Emergency facility.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.04.
      (2)   “Emergency facility person.” The singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
      (3)   “Emergency medical services person.” The singular of “emergency
medical services personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
(R.C. § 2917.13)
§ 648.07 INDUCING PANIC.
   (a)   No person shall cause the evacuation of any public place, or otherwise
cause serious public inconvenience or alarm, by doing any of the following:
      (1)   Initiating or circulating a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false.
      (2)   Threatening to commit any offense of violence.
      (3)   Committing any offense, with reckless disregard of the likelihood
that its commission will cause serious public inconvenience or alarm.
   (b)   Division (a)(1) of this section does not apply to any person
conducting an authorized fire or emergency drill.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of inducing panic.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(3), inducing panic is
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   If a violation of this section results in physical harm to any
person, inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law. If a violation of this section results in economic harm of $1,000 or more,
inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the
public place involved in a violation of division (a)(1) is a school or an
institution of higher education, inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law. If a violation of this section pertains to a
purported, threatened or actual use of a weapon of mass destruction, inducing
panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (d)   (1)   It is not a defense to a charge under this section that pertains
to a purported or threatened use of a weapon of mass destruction that the
offender did not possess or have the ability to use a weapon of mass
destruction or that what was represented to be a weapon of mass destruction was
not a weapon of mass destruction.
      (2)   Any act that is a violation of this section and any other section
of the Ohio Revised Code or these Codified Ordinances may be prosecuted under
this section, the other section, or both sections.
   (e)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Biological agent.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2917.33.
      (2)   “Economic harm.” Any of the following:
         A.   All direct, incidental and consequential pecuniary harm suffered
by a victim as a result of the criminal conduct. “Economic harm” as described
in this division includes but is not limited to all of the following:
            1.   All wages, salaries or other compensation lost as a result of
the criminal conduct;
            2.   The cost of all wages, salaries or other compensation paid to
employees for time those employees are prevented from working as a result of
the criminal conduct;
            3.   The overhead costs incurred from the time that a business is
shut down as a result of the criminal conduct;
            4.   The loss of value to tangible or intangible property that was
damaged as a result of the criminal conduct.
         B.   All costs incurred by the state or any political subdivision as a
result of, or in making any response to, the criminal conduct that constituted
the violation of this section or R.C. § 2917.32, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, including but not limited to all costs so
incurred by any law enforcement officers, firefighters, rescue personnel or
emergency medical services personnel of the state or the political subdivision.
      (3)   “Emergency medical services personnel.” Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2133.21.
      (4)   “Institution of higher education.” Any of the following:
         A.   A state university or college as defined in R.C. § 3345.12(A)(1),
community college, state community college, university branch or technical
college;
         B.   A private, nonprofit college, university or other post-secondary
institution located in this state that possesses a certificate of authorization
issued by the Ohio Board of Regents pursuant to R.C. Chapter 1713;
         C.   A post-secondary institution with a certificate of registration
issued by the State Board of Career Colleges and Schools pursuant to R.C.
Chapter 3332.
      (5)   “School.” Any school operated by a board of education or any school
for which the State Board of Education prescribes minimum standards under R.C.
§ 3301.07, whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities or
training provided by the school is being conducted at the time a violation of
this section is committed.
      (6)   “Weapon of mass destruction.” Any of the following:
         A.   Any weapon that is designed or intended to cause death or serious
physical harm through the release, dissemination or impact of toxic or
poisonous chemicals, or other precursors;
         B.   Any weapon involving a disease organism or biological agent;
         C.   Any weapon that is designed to release radiation or radioactivity
at a level dangerous to human life;
         D.   Any of the following, except to the extent that the item or
device in question is expressly excepted from the definition of “destructive
device” pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)(4) and regulations issued under that
section:
            1.   Any explosive, incendiary or poison gas bomb, grenade, rocket
having a propellant charge of more than four ounces, missile having an
explosive or incendiary charge of more than one-quarter ounce, mine or similar
device;
            2.   Any combination of parts either designed or intended for use
in converting any item or device into any item or device described in division
D.1. of this definition and from which an item or device described in that
division may be readily assembled.
(R.C. § 2917.31)
§ 648.08 MAKING FALSE ALARMS.
   (a)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Initiate or circulate a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false and likely to cause public inconvenience or alarm.
      (2)   Knowingly cause a false alarm of fire or other emergency to be
transmitted to or within any organization, public or private, for dealing with
emergencies involving a risk of physical harm to persons or property.
      (3)   Report to any law enforcement agency an alleged offense or other
incident within its concern, knowing that the offense did not occur.
      (4)   Initiate or circulate a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime, or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false and likely to impede the operation of a critical
infrastructure facility.
   (b)   This section does not apply to any person conducting an authorized
fire or emergency drill.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making false alarms. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, making false alarms is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If a violation of this section results in economic harm of
$1,000 or more, making false alarms is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If a violation of this section pertains to a purported,
threatened, or actual use of a weapon of mass destruction, making false alarms
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (d)   (1)   It is not a defense to a charge under this section that pertains
to a purported or threatened use of a weapon of mass destruction that the
offender did not possess or have the ability to use a weapon of mass
destruction or that what was represented to be a weapon of mass destruction was
not a weapon of mass destruction.
      (2)   Any act that is a violation of this section and any other section
of the Ohio Revised Code or these Codified Ordinances may be prosecuted under
this section, the other section, or both sections.
   (e)   As used in this section:
      (1)   "Critical infrastructure facility." Has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2911.21.
      (2)   "Economic harm" and "weapon of mass destruction." Have the same
meaning as in R.C. § 2917.31.
(R.C. § 2917.32)
§ 648.09 MINOR’S CURFEW.
   (a)   No minor under the age of 18 years shall loiter, idle, wander or play
in or upon any street, park, public building, place of amusement or
entertainment, vacant lot or private property within the village, without the
consent of the owner thereof, between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of
the following day for minors 16, but less than 18, years of age, and between
the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of the following day for minors under 16
years of age; provided, however, that the provisions of this section do not
apply to a minor accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or other adult
person having the care and custody of the minor, or where the minor is upon an
emergency errand or legitimate business directed by his or her parent, guardian
or other adult person having the care and custody of the minor.
   (b)   No parent, guardian or other adult person having the care and custody
of a minor under the age of 18 years shall knowingly permit such minor to
loiter, idle, wander or play in or upon a public street, park, playground or
other public ground, a public place, a public building, a place of amusement or
entertainment, a vacant lot or private property within the village, without the
consent of the owner thereof, between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of
the following day for minors 16, but less than 18, years of age, and between
the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of the following day for minors under 16
years of age, provided, however, that the provisions of this section do not
apply when the minor is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or other
adult person having the care and custody of the minor, or where the minor is
upon an emergency errand or legitimate business directed by his or her parent,
guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of the minor.
   (c)   Whoever, being an adult, violates any of the provisions of this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (d)   This section does not apply to a minor who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by a parent, guardian, or custodian;
      (2)   Accompanied by an adult specified by a parent, guardian, or
custodian;
      (3)   Carrying out an errand or other lawful activity as directed by a
parent, guardian, or custodian; or
      (4)   Occupying the sidewalk of the place where the minor resides, or the
sidewalk of a place where the minor has permission from his or her parent or
guardian to be, or the sidewalk of a next-door neighbor not communicating an
objection to a police officer.
      (5)   Participating in, going to, or returning from:
         A.   Lawful employment;
         B.   A lawful athletic, educational, entertainment, religious, or
social event; or
         C.   Interstate travel.
   (e)   Whoever, being a minor, violates any of the provisions of this section
shall be dealt with in accordance with Juvenile Court law and procedure.
(Ord. 160, passed 3-13-1972)
§ 648.10 HOURS FOR LABOR AND TRANSPORTATION OF MACHINERY AND MATERIALS.
   (a)   No materials, machinery or equipment for the construction, maintenance
or repair of sidewalks, streets, houses, buildings and other structures shall
be transported over the streets and public ways of the village between the
hours of sunset and 8:00 a.m. of the following day, through traffic excepted.
   (b)   No excavating, carpentry work, brick laying, cement work, stone work
or any other form of labor shall be performed in connection with the
construction, maintenance or repair of sidewalks, streets, houses, buildings or
other structures in the village between the hours of sunset and 8:00 a.m. of
the following day.
   (c)   This section shall not apply to emergencies when it is necessary to
transport materials, machinery or equipment or to perform labor for the
immediate preservation of property or the safety of persons or to maintain the
services of public utilities.
   (d)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 7-94, passed 11-14-1994)
§ 648.11 INCITING TO VIOLENCE.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly engage in conduct designed to urge or incite
another to commit any offense of violence when either of the following apply:
      (1)   The conduct takes place under circumstances that create a clear and
present danger that any offense of violence will be committed.
      (2)   The conduct proximately results in the commission of any offense of
violence.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of inciting to violence. If
the offense of violence that the other person is being urged or incited to
commit is a misdemeanor, inciting to violence is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the offense of violence that the other person is being urged or
incited to commit is a felony, inciting to violence is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2917.01)
CHAPTER 660: SAFETY, SANITATION AND HEALTH
Section
660.01   Venting of heaters and burners.
660.02   Spreading contagion.
660.03   Littering.
660.04   Noxious odors; filthy accumulations; polluting and diverting
watercourses.
660.05   Duty to keep sidewalks in repair and clean.
660.06   Abandoned refrigerators and airtight containers.
660.07   Storage of junk vehicles.
660.08   Open burning.
660.09   Barricades and warning lights.
660.10   Sidewalk obstructions; damage or injury.
660.11   Notice to fill lots, remove putrid substances.
660.12   Fences.
660.13   Smoking in places of public assembly.
660.14   Trees and weeds. (Repealed)
660.15   Cleaning of premises.
Cross-reference:
   Animal nuisances, see §
618.13
   Inducing panic, see §
648.07
   Littering from motor vehicles, see §
432.42
   Loads dropping or leaking; tracking mud; removal required, see §
440.06
   Placing harmful substance or objects in food or confection, see §
636.17
   Placing injurious material or obstruction in street, see §
412.01
   Rabies quarantine, see §
618.11
   Riot, see §§
648.01 et seq.
   Safety and equipment for motor vehicles, see
Ch. 438
   Weapons and explosives, see
Ch. 678
   Willfully leaving vehicles on private or public property, see §
452.05
Statutory reference:
   Excavation liability, see R.C. § 723.49 et seq.
   Nuisances, see R.C. Ch. 3767
§ 660.01 VENTING OF HEATERS AND BURNERS.
   (a)   The use of a brazier, salamander, space heater, room heater, furnace,
water heater, or other burner or heater, using wood, coal, coke, fuel oil,
kerosene, gasoline, natural gas, liquid petroleum gas or similar fuel, and
tending to give off carbon monoxide or other harmful gases, must comply with
the following provisions;
      (1)   When used in living quarters, or in any enclosed building or space
in which persons are usually present, shall be used with a flue or vent so
designed, installed and maintained as to vent the products of combustion
outdoors; except in storage, factory or industrial buildings which are provided
with sufficient ventilation to avoid the danger of carbon monoxide poisoning.
      (2)   When used as a portable or temporary burner or heater at a
construction site, or in a warehouse, shed or structure in which persons are
temporarily present, shall be vented as provided in division (a)(1) or used
with sufficient ventilation to avoid the danger of carbon monoxide poisoning.
   (b)   This section does not apply to domestic ranges, laundry stoves, gas
logs installed in a fireplace with an adequate flue, or hot plates, unless the
same are used as space or room heaters.
   (c)   No person shall negligently use, or, being the owner, person in charge
or occupant of premises, negligently permit the use of a burner or heater in
violation of the standards for venting and ventilation provided in this
section.
   (d)   Division (a) above does not apply to any kerosene-fired space or room
heater that is equipped with an automatic extinguishing tip-over device, or to
any natural gas-fired or liquid petroleum gas-fired space or room heater that
is equipped with an oxygen depletion safety shut-off system, and that has its
fuel piped from a source outside the building in which it is located, that are
approved by an authoritative source recognized by the State Fire Marshal in the
State Fire Code adopted by him or her under R.C. § 3737.82.
   (e)   The State Fire Marshal may make rules to ensure the safe use of
unvented kerosene, natural gas or liquid petroleum gas heaters exempted from
division (a) above when used in assembly buildings, business buildings, high
hazard buildings, institutional buildings, mercantile buildings and type R-
1 and R-2 residential buildings, as these groups of buildings are defined in
rules adopted by the Board of Building Standards under R.C. § 3781.10. No
person shall negligently use, or, being the owner, person in charge or occupant
of premises, negligently permit the use of a heater in violation of any rules
adopted under this division.
   (f)   The State Fire Marshal may make rules prescribing standards for
written instructions containing ventilation requirements and warning of any
potential fire hazards that may occur in using a kerosene, natural gas or
liquid petroleum gas heater. No person shall sell or offer for sale any
kerosene, natural gas or liquid petroleum gas heater unless the manufacturer
provides with the heater written instructions that comply with any rules
adopted under this division.
   (g)   No product labeled as a fuel additive for kerosene heaters and having
a flash point below 100°F or 37.8°C shall be sold, offered for sale or used in
any kerosene space heater.
   (h)   No device that prohibits any safety feature on a kerosene, natural gas
or liquid petroleum gas space heater from operating shall be sold, offered for
sale or used in connection with any kerosene, natural gas or liquid petroleum
gas space heater.
   (i)   No person shall sell or offer for sale any kerosene-fired, natural gas
or liquid petroleum gas-fired heater that is not exempt from division (a)
above, unless it is marked conspicuously by the manufacturer on the container
with the phrase “Not Approved For Home Use.”
   (j)   No person shall use a cabinet-type, liquid petroleum gas-fired heater
having a fuel source within the heater, inside any building, except as
permitted by the State Fire Marshal in the State Fire Code adopted by him or
her under R.C. § 3737.82.
(R.C. § 3701.82)
   (k)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 3701.99(B))
§ 660.02 SPREADING CONTAGION.
   (a)   No person, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that he or
she is suffering from a dangerous, contagious disease, shall knowingly fail to
take reasonable measures to prevent exposing himself or herself to other
persons, except when seeking medical aid.
   (b)   No person, having charge or care of a person whom he or she knows or
has reasonable cause to believe is suffering from a dangerous, contagious
disease, shall recklessly fail to take reasonable measures to protect others
from exposure to the contagion, and to inform health authorities of the
existence of the contagion.
   (c)   No person, having charge of a public conveyance or place of public
accommodation, amusement, resort or trade, and knowing or having reasonable
cause to believe that persons using the conveyance or place have been or are
being exposed to a dangerous, contagious disease, shall negligently fail to
take reasonable measures to protect the public from exposure to the contagion,
and to inform health authorities of the existence of the contagion.
(R.C. § 3701.81)
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second
degree.
(R.C. § 3701.99(C))
§ 660.03 LITTERING.
   (a)   No person, regardless of intent, shall deposit litter or cause litter
to be deposited on any public property, on private property not owned by him or
her, or in or on waters of the state, unless one of the following applies:
      (1)   The person is directed to do so by a public official as part of a
litter collection drive.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (b) of this section, the person
deposits the litter in a litter receptacle in a manner that prevents its being
carried away by the elements.
      (3)   The person is issued a permit or license covering the litter
pursuant to R.C. Chapter 3734 or 6111.
   (b)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly deposit litter,
or cause it to be deposited, in a litter receptacle located on any public
property or on any private property not owned by him or her, unless one of the
following applies:
      (1)   The litter was generated or located on the property on which the
litter receptacle is located.
      (2)   The person is directed to do so by a public official as part of a
litter collection drive.
      (3)   The person is directed to do so by a person whom he or she
reasonably believes to have the privilege to use the litter receptacle.
      (4)   The litter consists of any of the following:
         A.   The contents of a litter bag or container of a type and size
customarily carried and used in a motor vehicle.
         B.   The contents of an ash tray of a type customarily installed or
carried and used in a motor vehicle.
         C.   Beverage containers and food sacks, wrappings and containers of a
type and in an amount that reasonably may be expected to be generated during
routine commuting or business or recreational travel by a motor vehicle.
         D.   Beverage containers, food sacks, wrappings, containers and other
materials of a type and in an amount that reasonably may be expected to be
generated during a routine day by a person and deposited in a litter receptacle
by a casual passerby.
   (c)   (1)   As used in division (b)(1) of this section, “public property”
includes any private property open to the public for the conduct of business,
the provision of a service, or upon the payment of a fee, but does not include
any private property to which the public otherwise does not have a right of
access.
      (2)   As used in division (b)(4) of this section, “casual passerby” means
a person who does not have depositing litter in a litter receptacle as his or
her primary reason for traveling to or by the property on which the litter
receptacle is located.
   (d)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   "Auxiliary container." A bag, can, cup, food or beverage service
item, container, keg, bottle, or other packaging to which all of the following
apply:
         A.   It is designed to be either single use or reusable.
         B.   It is made of cloth, paper, plastic, foamed or expanded plastic,
cardboard, corrugated material, aluminum, metal, glass, postconsumer recycled
material, or similar materials or substances, including coated, laminated, or
multilayered substrates.
         C.   It is designed for consuming, transporting, or protecting
merchandise, food, or beverages from or at a food service operation, retail
food establishment, grocery, or any other type of retail, manufacturing, or
distribution establishment.
      (2)   “Deposit.” To throw, drop, discard or place.
      (3)   “Litter.” Garbage, trash, waste, rubbish, ashes, cans, bottles,
wire, paper, cartons, boxes, automobile parts, furniture, glass, auxiliary
containers, or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature.
      (4)   “Litter receptacle.” A dumpster, trash can, trash bin, garbage can
or similar container in which litter is deposited for removal.
   (e)   This section may be enforced by any sheriff, deputy sheriff, police
officer of a municipal corporation, police constable or officer of a township,
or township or joint police district, wildlife officer designated under R.C. §
1531.13, natural resources officer appointed under R.C. § 1501.24, forest-fire
investigator appointed under R.C. § 1503.09, conservancy district police
officer, inspector of nuisances of a county, or any other law enforcement
officer within the law enforcement officer’s jurisdiction.
(R.C. § 3767.32)
   (f)   Whoever violates any provision of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. The sentencing court may, in addition to or in
lieu of the penalty provided in this division, require a person who violates
this section to remove litter from any public or private property or in or on
waters of the state.
(R.C. § 3767.99(C))
§ 660.04 NOXIOUS ODORS; FILTHY ACCUMULATIONS; POLLUTING AND DIVERTING
WATERCOURSES.
   (a)   No person shall erect, continue to use or maintain a building,
structure or place for the exercise of a trade, employment or business or for
keeping or feeding an animal which, by occasioning noxious exhalations or
noisome or offensive smells, becomes injurious to the health, comfort or
property of individuals or of the public.
   (b)   No person shall cause or allow offal, filth or noisome substances to
be collected or remain in any place to the damage or prejudice of others or of
the public.
   (c)   No person shall unlawfully obstruct or impede the passage of a
navigable river, harbor or collection of water, or corrupt or render
unwholesome or impure a watercourse, stream of water or unlawfully divert the
watercourse from its natural course or state to the injury or prejudice of
others.
   (d)   Persons who are engaged in agriculture-related activities, as
“agriculture” is defined in R.C. § 519.01, and who are conducting those
activities outside the municipality, in accordance with generally accepted
agricultural practices, and in such a manner so as not to have a substantial,
adverse effect on the public health, safety or welfare, are exempt from
divisions (a) and (b) above and from any ordinances, resolutions, rules, or
other enactments of the municipality that prohibit excessive noise.
(R.C. § 3767.13)
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. § 3767.99(C))
§ 660.05 DUTY TO KEEP SIDEWALKS IN REPAIR AND CLEAN.
   (a)   No owner or occupant of lots or lands abutting any sidewalk, curb or
gutter shall fail to keep the sidewalks, curbs and gutters in repair and free
from snow, ice or any nuisance, and to remove from the sidewalks, curbs or
gutters all snow and ice accumulated thereon within a reasonable time, which
will ordinarily not exceed 12 hours after any storm during which the snow and
ice has accumulated.
(R.C. § 723.011)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
§ 660.06 ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS AND AIRTIGHT CONTAINERS.
   (a)   No person shall abandon, discard or knowingly permit to remain on
premises under the person’s control, in a place accessible to children, any
abandoned or discarded icebox, refrigerator or other airtight or semi-airtight
container which has a capacity of one and one-half cubic feet or more and an
opening of 50 square inches or more and which has a door or lid equipped with a
hinge, latch or other fastening device capable of securing the door or lid,
without rendering the equipment harmless to human life by removing the hinges,
latches or other hardware which may cause a person to be confined therein. This
section shall not apply to an icebox, refrigerator or other airtight or semi-
airtight container located in that part of a building occupied by a dealer,
warehouse or repairer.
(R.C. § 3767.29)
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 3767.99(B))
§ 660.07 STORAGE OF JUNK VEHICLES.
   (a)   (1)   For purposes of this section, “junk motor vehicle” means any
motor vehicle which is three years old or older; extensively damaged, the
damage including but not limited to any of the following: missing wheels,
tires, motor or transmission; apparently inoperable; and having a fair market
value of $1,500 or less, that is left uncovered in the open on private property
for more than 72 hours with the permission of the person having the right to
possession of the property, except if the person is operating a junk yard or
scrap metal processing facility licensed under the authority of R.C. § 4737.05
through 4737.12, or otherwise regulated under authority of a political
subdivision; or if the property on which the motor vehicle is left is not
subject to licensure or regulation by any governmental authority, unless the
person having the right to the possession of the property can establish that
the motor vehicle is part of a bona fide commercial operation; or if the motor
vehicle is a collector’s vehicle.
      (2)   The municipality shall not prevent a person from storing or
keeping, or restrict him or her in the method of storing or keeping, any
collector’s vehicle on private property with the permission of the person
having the right to the possession of the property, except that the
municipality may require a person having such permission to conceal, by means
of buildings, fences, vegetation, terrain or other suitable obstruction, any
unlicensed collector’s vehicle stored in the open.
      (3)   The Police Chief, the Council, or the zoning authority may send
notice, by certified mail with return receipt requested, to the person having
the right to the possession of the property on which a junk motor vehicle is
left, that within ten days of receipt of the notice, the junk motor vehicle
either shall be covered by being housed in a garage or other suitable
structure, or shall be removed from the property.
      (4)   No person shall willfully leave a junk motor vehicle uncovered in
the open for more than ten days after receipt of a notice as provided in this
section. The fact that a junk motor vehicle is so left is prima facie evidence
of willful failure to comply with the notice, and each subsequent period of 30
days that a junk motor vehicle continues to be so left constitutes a separate
offense.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.65)
§ 660.08 OPEN BURNING.
   (a)   (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         A.   “Agricultural waste.” Any waste material generated by crop,
horticultural, or livestock production practices, and includes such items as
woody debris and plant matter from stream flooding, bags, cartons, structural
materials, and landscape wastes that are generated in agricultural activities,
but does not include land clearing waste; buildings (including dismantled/
fallen barns); garbage; dead animals; animal waste; motor vehicles and parts
thereof; nor economic poisons and containers thereof, unless the manufacturer
has identified open burning as a safe disposal procedure.
         B.   “Air curtain burner.” An engineered apparatus consisting of a
motorized high-velocity fan and an air distribution system designed to aid in
the efficient combustion of materials placed in a manufactured steel structure
and for which a permit-to-install has been obtained as required in O.A.C.
Chapter 3745-31 and a permit-to-operate has been obtained as required in O.A.C.
Chapter 3745-77.
         C.   “Air curtain destructor.” An engineered apparatus consisting of a
motorized high-velocity fan and an air distribution system designed to aid in
the efficient combustion of materials placed in an adjacent pit. An air curtain
burner may be used in place of an air curtain destructor, but an air curtain
destructor may not be used in place of an air curtain burner.
         D.   “Economic poisons.” Include but are not restricted to pesticides
such as insecticides, fungicides, rodenticides, miticides, nematocides and
fumigants; herbicides; seed disinfectants; and defoliants.
         E.   “Emergency burning.” The burning of clean wood waste or deceased
animals caused by a natural disaster or an uncontrolled event such as the
following:
            1.   A tornado.
            2.   High winds.
            3.   An earthquake.
            4.   An explosion.
            5.   A flood.
            6.   A hail storm, a rain storm, or an ice storm.
         F.   “Garbage.” Any waste material resulting from the handling,
processing, preparation, cooking and consumption of food or food products.
         G.   “Inhabited building.” Any inhabited private dwelling house and
any public structure which may be used as a place of resort, assembly,
education, entertainment, lodging, trade, manufacture, repair, storage,
traffic, or occupancy by the public. Examples would include, but are not
limited to, highway rest stops, restaurants, motels, hotels and gas stations.
         H.   “Land clearing waste.” Plant waste material which is removed from
land, including plant waste material removed from stream banks during projects
involving more than one property owner, for the purpose of rendering the land
useful for residential, commercial, or industrial development. Land clearing
waste also includes the plant waste material generated during the clearing of
land for new agricultural development.
         I.   “Landscape waste.” Any plant waste material, except garbage,
including trees, tree trimmings, branches, stumps, brush, weeds, leaves, grass,
shrubbery, yard trimmings, and crop residues.
         J.   “Ohio EPA.” The Ohio Environmental Protection Agency Director or
agencies delegated authority by the Director of the Ohio Environmental
Protection Agency pursuant to R.C. § 3704.03 or the Chief of any Ohio
Environmental Protection Agency District Office.
         K.   “Open burning.” The burning of any materials wherein air
contaminants resulting from combustion are emitted directly into the ambient
air without passing through a stack or chimney. Open burning includes the
burning of any refuse or salvageable material in any device not subject to or
designed specifically to comply with the requirements of O.A.C. 3745-17-09 or
O.A.C. 3745-17-10.
         L.   “Residential waste.” Any waste material, including landscape
waste, generated on the property of a one-, two- or three-family residence as a
result of residential activities, but not including garbage, rubber, grease,
asphalt, liquid petroleum products, or plastics.
         M.   “Restricted area.” The area within the boundary of the
municipality, plus a zone extending 1,000 feet beyond the boundaries of a
municipality having a population of 1,000 to 10,000 persons and a zone
extending one mile beyond any municipality having a population of 10,000
persons or more according to the latest federal census.
         N.   “Unrestricted area.” All areas outside the boundaries of a
restricted area as defined in this section.
      (2)   Referenced Materials. This section includes references to certain
matter or materials. The text of the referenced materials is not included in
the legislation contained in this section. Information on the availability of
the referenced materials as well as the date of, and/or the particular edition
or version of the material is included in this legislation. For materials
subject to change, only the specific versions specified in this legislation are
referenced. Material is referenced as it exists on the effective date of this
legislation. Except for subsequent annual publication of existing (unmodified)
Code of Federal Regulation compilations, any amendment or revision to a
referenced document is not applicable unless and until this section has been
amended to specify the new dates.
         A.   Availability. The referenced materials are available as follows:
            1.   Clean Air Act. Information and copies may be obtained by
writing to: Superintendent of Documents, Attn: New Orders, PO Box 371954,
Pittsburgh, PA 15250-7954. The full text of the act as amended in 1990 is also
available in electronic format at www.epa.gov/oar/caa/. A copy of the act is
also available for inspection and use at most public libraries and the State
Library of Ohio.
            2.   Code of Federal Regulations (C.F.R.). Information and copies
may be obtained by writing to: Superintendent of Documents, Attn: New Orders,
PO Box 371954, Pittsburgh, PA 15250-7954. The full text of the C.F.R. is also
available in electronic format at http://www.ecfr.gov. The C.F.R. compilations
are also available for inspection and use at most public libraries and the
State Library of Ohio.
            3.   National Fire Protection Association. Information on the
National Fire Protection Association codes may be obtained by contacting the
Association at 1 Batterymarch Park, Quincy, Massachusetts 02169-7471, 617-770-
3000. Codes may be ordered at www.nfpa.org/catalog/home/index.asp. Copies of
the code exist or are available at most public libraries and the State Library
of Ohio.
         B.   Referenced Materials.
            1.   40 C.F.R. § 60.2974: “Am I required to apply for and obtain a
title V operating permit for my air curtain incinerator that burns only wood
waste, clean lumber, and yard waste?” as published in the July 1, 2012 Code of
Federal Regulations.
            2.   40 C.F.R. § 60.3069: “Am I required to apply for and obtain a
title V operating permit for my air curtain incinerator that burns only wood
waste, clean lumber, and yard waste?” as published in the July 1, 2012 Code of
Federal Regulations.
            3.   NFPA publication 1403: “Standard on Live Fire Training
Evolutions, Chapter 4, Acquired Structures” published April 30, 2007.
            4.   Section 129 of the Clean Air Act, contained in 42 U.S.C. §
7429: “Solid waste combustion” published January 2, 2006 in Supplement V of the
2000 Edition of the United States Code.
(O.A.C. 3745-19-01)
   (b)   Relation to Other Laws.
      (1)   Notwithstanding any provision in O.A.C. Chapter 3745-19, no open
burning shall be conducted in an area where an air alert, warning or emergency
under O.A.C. Chapter 3745-25 is in effect.
      (2)   No provisions of O.A.C. Chapter 3745-19 permitting open burning,
and no permission to open burn granted by the Ohio EPA, shall exempt any person
from compliance with any section of the Ohio Revised Code, or any regulation of
any state department, or any local ordinance or regulation dealing with open
burning.
(O.A.C. 3745-19-02)
   (c)   Open Burning in Restricted Areas.
      (1)   No person or property owner shall cause or allow open burning in a
restricted area except as provided in divisions (c)(2) to (c)(4) of this
section or in R.C. § 3704.11.
      (2)   Open burning shall be allowed for the following purposes without
notification to or permission from the Ohio EPA:
         A.   Heating tar, welding, acetylene torches, highway safety flares,
heating for warmth of outdoor workers and strikers, smudge pots and similar
occupational needs.
         B.   Bonfires, campfires and outdoor fireplace equipment, whether for
cooking food for human consumption, pleasure, religious, ceremonial, warmth,
recreational or similar purposes, if the following conditions are met:
            1.   They are fueled with clean seasoned firewood, natural gas or
equivalent, or any clean burning fuel with emissions that are equivalent to or
lower than those created from the burning of seasoned firewood;
            2.   They are not used for waste disposal purposes; and
            3.   They shall have a total fuel area of three feet or less in
diameter and two feet or less in height.
         C.   Disposal of hazardous explosive materials, military munitions or
explosive devices that require immediate action to prevent endangerment of
human health, public safety, property or the environment and that are excluded
from the requirement to obtain a hazardous waste permit pursuant to O.A.C.
3745-50-45(D)(1)(d).
         D.   Recognized training in the use of fire extinguishers for
commercial or industrial fire prevention.
         E.   Fires set at the direction of federal, state, and local law
enforcement officials for the purpose of destruction of cannabis sativa
(marijuana) plant vegetation, processed marijuana material and/or other drugs
seized by federal, state, or local law enforcement officials.
         F.   Fires allowed by divisions (c)(2)A., (c)(2)B. and (c)(2)D. of
this section shall not be used for waste disposal purposes and shall be of
minimum size sufficient for their intended purpose; the fuel shall be chosen to
minimize the generation and emission of air contaminants.
      (3)   Open burning shall be allowed for the following purposes with prior
notification to the Ohio EPA in accordance with division (d)(2) of this
section:
         A.   Prevention or control of disease or pests, with written or verbal
verification to the Ohio EPA from the Ohio Department of Health or local health
department, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, cooperative
extension service, Ohio Department of Agriculture or U.S. Department of
Agriculture, that open burning is the only appropriate disposal method.
         B.   Bonfires or campfires used for ceremonial purposes that do not
meet the requirements of division (c)(2)B. of this section, provided the
following conditions are met:
            1.   They have a total fuel area no greater than five feet in
diameter by five feet in height and burn no longer than three hours;
            2.   They are not used for waste disposal purposes; and
            3.   They are fueled with clean seasoned firewood, natural gas or
equivalent, or any clean burning fuel with emissions that are equivalent to or
lower than those created from the burning of seasoned firewood.
         C.   Disposal of agricultural waste generated on the premises if the
following conditions are observed:
            1.   The fire is set only when atmospheric conditions will readily
dissipate contaminants;
            2.   The fire does not create a visibility hazard on the roadways,
railroad tracks or air fields;
            3.   The fire is located at a point on the premises no less than
1,000 feet from any inhabited building not located on the premises;
            4.   The wastes are stacked and dried to provide the best
practicable condition for efficient burning; and
            5.   No materials are burned which contain rubber, grease, asphalt,
liquid petroleum products, plastics or building materials.
      (4)   Open burning shall be allowed for the following purposes upon
receipt of written permission from the Ohio EPA, in accordance with division
(d)(1) of this section, provided that any conditions specified in the
permission are followed:
         A.   Disposal of ignitable or explosive materials where the Ohio EPA
determines that there is no practical alternate method of disposal, excluding
those materials identified in division (c)(2)C. of this section;
         B.   Instruction in methods of fire fighting or for research in the
control of fires as recognized by the State Fire Marshal Division of the Ohio
Department of Commerce and the guidelines set forth in the National Fire
Protection Association’s (NFPA) publication 1403, Standard on Live Fire
Training Evolutions, Chapter 4, Acquired Structures, provided that the
application required in division (d)(1)A. of this section is submitted by the
commercial or public entity responsible for the instruction;
         C.   In emergency or other extraordinary circumstances for any purpose
determined to be necessary by the Director and performed as identified in the
appendix to O.A.C. 3745-19-03. If deemed necessary, the open burning may be
authorized with prior oral approval by the Director followed by the issuance of
a written permission to open burn within seven working days of the oral
approval;
         D.   Recognized horticultural, silvicultural, silvicultural
(forestry), range or wildlife management practices; and
         E.   Fires and/or pyrotechnic effects, for purposes other than waste
disposal, set as part of commercial film-making or video production activities
for motion pictures and television.
(O.A.C. 3745-19-03)
   (d)   Permission to Individuals and Notification to the Ohio EPA.
      (1)   Permission.
         A.   An application for permission to open burn shall be submitted in
writing to Ohio EPA. The applicant shall allow Ohio EPA at least ten working
days to review the permit. Applicant may proceed with burn upon receipt of
written permission from Ohio EPA. Saturday, Sunday, and legal holidays shall
not be considered working days. The application shall be in such form and
contain such information as required by the Ohio EPA.
         B.   Except as provided in divisions (d)(1)F. and (d)(1)G. of this
section, the applications shall contain, as a minimum, information regarding:
            1.   The purpose of the proposed burning;
            2.   The quantity or acreage and the nature of the materials to be
burned;
            3.   The date or dates when the burning will take place;
            4.   The location of the burning site, including a map showing
distances to residences, populated areas, roadways, air fields and other
pertinent landmarks; and
            5.   The methods or actions which will be taken to reduce the
emissions of air contaminants.
         C.   Permission to open burn shall not be granted unless the applicant
demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Ohio EPA that open burning is necessary
to the public interest; will be conducted in a time, place and manner as to
minimize the emission of air contaminants, when atmospheric conditions are
appropriate; and will have no serious detrimental effect upon adjacent
properties or the occupants thereof. The Ohio EPA may impose such conditions as
may be necessary to accomplish the purpose of O.A.C. Chapter 3745-19.
         D.   Except as provided in division (d)(1)F. of this section,
permission to open burn must be obtained for each specific project. In
emergencies where public health or environmental quality will be seriously
threatened by delay while written permission is sought, the fire may be set
with oral permission of the Ohio EPA.
         E.   Violations of any of the conditions set forth by the Ohio EPA in
granting permission to open burn shall be grounds for revocation of that
permission and refusal to grant future permission, as well as for the
imposition of other sanctions provided by law.
         F.   The Ohio Department of Commerce, Division of State Fire Marshal,
may request permission to open burn on an annual basis for the purpose of
training firefighters on pre-flashover conditions using the Ohio Fire Academy’s
mobile training laboratory at either the academy or at other training sites in
Ohio. The annual application required pursuant to division (d)(1)A. of this
section shall contain information as required in division (d)(1)B. of this
section, except the information required in divisions (d)(1)B.3. and (d)(1)B.4.
of this section need not be provided unless it is available at the time of
submittal of the application. The Academy shall contact the appropriate Ohio
EPA District Office or local air agency at least five working days before each
training session of the date or dates when the training session will take place
and its location. Saturday, Sunday and legal holidays shall not be considered a
working day.
         G.   For open burning defined under division (c)(4)B. of this section
and O.A.C. 3745-19-04(C)(2), permission to open burn shall not be granted
unless the applicant provides proof of written notice of intent to demolish
received by the appropriate Ohio EPA field office in accordance with O.A.C.
3745-20-03.
      (2)   Notification.
         A.   Notification shall be submitted in writing at least ten working
days before the fire is to be set. Saturday, Sunday and legal holidays shall
not be considered a working day. It shall be in such form and contain such
information as shall be required by the Ohio EPA.
         B.   Such notification shall inform the Ohio EPA regarding:
            1.   The purpose of the proposed burning;
            2.   The nature and quantities of materials to be burned;
            3.   The date or dates when the burning will take place; and
            4.   The location of the burning site.
         C.   The Ohio EPA, after receiving notification, may determine that
the open burning is not allowed under O.A.C. Chapter 3745-19 and the Ohio EPA
shall notify the applicant to this effect.
(O.A.C. 3745-19-05)
   (e)   Penalty. Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is
guilty of a minor misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed
each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. In addition, the
offender shall be required to pay the cost of proper disposal of the materials
burned. The cost of proper disposal of the materials burned shall be the amount
it would have cost to dispose of the materials in a manner that is consistent
with the air, water and solid waste laws, ordinances and regulations of the
municipality and the state.
§ 660.09 BARRICADES AND WARNING LIGHTS.
   (a)   No person shall abandon or knowingly permit to remain on public or
private property, any excavation, well, cesspool or structure which is in the
process of construction, reconstruction, repair or alteration unless the same
is adequately protected by suitable barricades and guarded by warning devices
or lights at night so that the condition will not reasonably prove dangerous to
life or limb.
   (b)   No person shall destroy, remove, damage or extinguish any barricade or
warning light that is placed for the protection of the public so as to prevent
injury to life or limb.
   (c)   Any owner or agent in control of a premises upon which a basement,
cellar, well or cistern has been abandoned due to demolition, failure to build
or any other reason shall cause the same to be filled to the ground surface
with rock, gravel, earth or other suitable material.
   (d)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues.
§ 660.10 SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTIONS; DAMAGE OR INJURY.
   (a)   No person shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a sidewalk or
playground any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails or other articles which may
damage property of another or injure any person or animal traveling along or
upon the sidewalk or playground.
   (b)   No person shall walk on, or allow any animal upon, or injure or deface
in any way, any soft or newly laid sidewalk pavement.
   (c)   No person shall place, deposit or maintain any merchandise, goods,
material or equipment upon any sidewalk so as to obstruct pedestrian traffic
thereon except for such reasonable time as may be actually necessary for the
delivery or pickup of the articles. In no case shall the obstruction remain on
the sidewalk for more than one hour.
   (d)   No person shall unload upon, or transport any heavy merchandise,
goods, material or equipment over or across any sidewalk or curb without first
placing some sufficient protection over the pavement to protect against damage
or injury.
   (e)   No person shall allow any cellar or trap door, coal chute or elevator
or lift opening in any sidewalk to remain open without providing suitable
safeguards to protect and warn pedestrian traffic of the dangerous conditions.
   (f)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues.
§ 660.11 NOTICE TO FILL LOTS, REMOVE PUTRID SUBSTANCES.
   (a)   No person shall fail to comply with the following requirements within
the lawful time after service or publication of the notice or resolution is
made as required by law: to fill or drain any lot or land or remove all putrid
substances therefrom, or remove all obstructions from culverts, covered drains
or natural watercourses as provided in R.C. § 715.47.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
§ 660.12 FENCES.
   (a)   No person shall erect or maintain any fence charged with electrical
current.
   (b)   No person shall erect or maintain a barbed wire fence which abuts or
is adjacent to any public street or sidewalk. This division (b) does not
prevent the placement and use of not more than two strands of barbed wire on
top of a fence other than a barbed wire fence, provided the strands are not
less than 48 inches from the ground.
   (c)   Barbed wire partition fences may be erected and maintained as provided
in R.C. § 971.03.
   (d)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues.
§ 660.13 SMOKING IN PLACES OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY.
   (a)   As used in this section, “place of public assembly” means:
      (1)   Enclosed theaters, except the lobby; opera houses; auditoriums;
classrooms; elevators; rooms in which persons are confined as a matter of
health care, including but not limited to a hospital room and a room in a
residential care facility serving as the residence of a person living in the
residential care facility.
      (2)   All buildings and other enclosed structures owned by the state, its
agencies, or political subdivisions, including but not limited to hospitals and
state institutions for the mentally ill and persons with intellectual
disabilities; university and college buildings, except rooms within those
buildings used primarily as the residences of students or other persons
affiliated with the university or college; office buildings; libraries;
museums; and vehicles used in public transportation. That portion of a building
or other enclosed structure that is owned by the state, a state agency or a
political subdivision, and that is used primarily as a food service
establishment, is not a place of public assembly.
      (3)   Each portion of a building or enclosed structure that is not
included in division (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section is a place of public
assembly if it has a seating capacity of 50 or more persons and is available to
the public. Restaurants, food service establishments, dining rooms, cafes,
cafeterias or other rooms used primarily for the service of food, as well as
bowling alleys and places licensed by the Ohio Division of Liquor Control to
sell intoxicating beverages for consumption on the premises, are not places of
public assembly.
   (b)   For the purpose of separating persons who smoke from persons who do
not smoke for the comfort and health of persons not smoking, in every place of
public assembly there shall be an area where smoking is not permitted, which
shall be designated a no smoking area, provided that not more than one-half of
the rooms in any health care facility in which persons are confined as a matter
of health care may be designated as smoking areas in their entirety. The
designation shall be made before the place of public assembly is made available
to the public. In places included in division (a)(1) of this section, the local
fire authority having jurisdiction shall designate the no smoking area. In
places included in division (a)(2) of this section that are owned by the state
or its agencies, the Ohio Director of Administrative Services shall designate
the area, and if the place is owned by a political subdivision, its legislative
authority shall designate an officer who shall designate the area. In places
included in division (a)(3) of this section, the person having control of the
operations of the place of public assembly shall designate the no smoking area.
In places included in division (a)(2) of this section which are also included
in division (a)(1) of this section, the officer who has authority to designate
the area in places in division (a)(2) of this section shall designate the no
smoking area. A no smoking area may include the entire place of public
assembly. Designations shall be made by the placement of signs that are clearly
visible and that state “no smoking.” No person shall remove signs from areas
designated as no smoking areas.
   (c)   This section does not affect or modify the prohibition contained in
R.C. § 3313.751(B).
   (d)   No person shall smoke in any area designated as a no smoking area in
accordance with division (b) of this section.
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 3791.031)
§ 660.14 TREES AND WEEDS. (REPEALED)
§ 660.15 CLEANING OF PREMISES.
   (a)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      (1)   “Automobile parts” means parts of any motor-driven vehicle that are
detached from the vehicle as a whole.
      (2)   “Garbage” means all putrescible wastes, except wastes of the human
body, other water-carried wastes and vegetable and animal wastes resulting from
the handling, preparation, cooking or consumption of foods. Any containers that
have contained food or liquids for consumption by humans or other beings shall
be classified as garbage.
      (3)   “Motor vehicle in an operative condition” means any kind of motor-
driven vehicle used or useful for the conveyance of persons or property, which
vehicle is unable to move under its own power due to defective or missing
parts, and which has remained in such condition for a period of not less than
ten days, or which has not been licensed for operation as required by the Ohio
Revised Code.
      (4)   “Motor vehicle unfit for further use” means any kind of motor-
driven vehicle used for conveyance of persons or property, which is in a
dangerous condition, has defective or missing parts, or is in such a condition
generally as to be unfit for further use as a conveyance.
      (5)   “Refuse” means only such matter as is either in fact noxious or has
been refused by its owner as worthless.
      (6)   “Rubbish” means wire, chips, shavings, bottles, broken glass,
crockery, tin, cast or wooden ware, boxes, rags, dead weeds, paper circulars,
handbills, boots, shoes, ashes or any waste material other than garbage or
offal.
      (7)   “Scrap metal” means pieces of or parts of steel, iron, tin, zinc,
copper, aluminum, or any alloy thereof, whether covered with porcelain or any
other material, whether intact or in parts, which has served its usefulness in
its original form and can no longer be used or useful for its original intended
purpose.
      (8)   “Used building materials” means any materials, such as wood, stone,
brick, cement block, or any composition thereof, used or useful in the erection
of any building or structure, which have been previously used for such erection
or construction by the same persons or by any other person.
   (b)   Storage of Certain Materials Prohibited.
      (1)   No person shall store or place used building materials, motor
vehicles in an inoperable condition, motor vehicles unfit for further use,
automobile parts, scrap metal, refuse, rubbish or garbage on any lot or parcel
of land in the village or allow the same to remain thereon. However, this
section shall not apply with regard to a vehicle in an enclosed building, or a
vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a lawful
place and manner by the village. A violation of this division (b)(1) is hereby
declared to be a nuisance.
      (2)   The owner, occupant or person in control of any private property
shall at all times maintain the premises free of refuse and garbage, except
that which is contained in covered receptacles for collection.
   (c)   Order for Removal; Noncompliance.
      (1)   In the event of a violation of division (b) of this section, the
Chief of Police shall give notice to the owner, occupant or person having
charge of the premises upon which the violation occurs to cease such violation.
Such notice shall be in writing and shall be served upon the owner, occupant or
person having charge of the premises either personally or at the usual place of
residence of such person, or by registered or certified mail addressed to such
person’s last known place of residence.
      (2)   If the person served with the notice as provided in division (c)(1)
of this section fails to cause such violation to cease within ten days of the
date on which the notice was issued, he or she shall be subject to the penalty
provided in division (e) of this section, and a separate offense shall be
deemed committed each day during or on which the violation occurs or continues
beyond such ten-day period, and no additional notice of violation is required
to be given.
   (d)   Exception; Building Materials for One’s Own Use. Notwithstanding the
provisions of division (b) of this section, it shall not be unlawful for any
person to purchase used building materials and place or store them on any lot,
part of a lot or parcel of land when such materials are used by the purchaser
thereof or the owner of the premises in later construction on the same lot or
any lot owned or controlled by such person; provided that such materials shall
not remain on said lot, part of a lot or parcel of land for a period of more
than 30 days, unless the construction or erection in which such material is to
be used has commenced, and provided, further, that such materials are used or
consumed in the construction or removed from the premises within a period of
four months from the time said materials are first placed on the lot, part of a
lot or parcel of land. No person shall move any materials so stored or placed
to another location within the village for the purpose of avoiding the intent
of this section, except that any such materials may be moved to another lot,
part of a lot or parcel of land when the same have been sold to a bona fide
purchaser for value for such purchaser’s own use.
   (e)   Penalty. Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is
guilty of a minor misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed
each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 4-81, passed 7-13-1981)
CHAPTER 665: WEEDS AND GRASS
Section
665.01   Cutting of weeds and grass required.
665.02   Trimming of trees and shrubs required.
665.03   Removal of dangerous trees.
665.04   Planting of trees and shrubs regulated.
665.05   Notice to cut, trim or remove.
665.06   Failure to comply; remedy of municipality.
665.07   Fees charged by municipality.
665.08   Payment of fees.
665.09   Removal of fallen branches, limbs and the like.
665.10   Cutting of weeds and grasses in adjacent rights-of-way.
665.11   Grass clippings on public sidewalks and public streets.
665.99   Penalty.
§ 665.01 CUTTING OF WEEDS AND GRASS REQUIRED.
   The owner, lessee, agent, tenant or other such person having charge or care
of any land, parcel or lot within the village shall maintain the premises and
exterior property free from weeds or plant growth including grass in excess of
six inches. Ornamental grasses in landscaped beds are exempt. All noxious weeds
as defined by the United States Department of Agriculture and the Ohio
Administrative Code 901.5-37-01 are prohibited.
   (a)   Noxious Weeds Defined. Poison ivy; poison oak; poison sumac; any and
all additional noxious weeds included in the Ohio Administrative Code’s list of
prohibited noxious weeds and/or the Ohio noxious weed list maintained by the
United States Department of Agriculture Natural Resources Conservation Service.
   (b)   Plant Growth Defined. All grasses, annual plants, and vegetation,
other than trees or shrubs. This term does not include cultivated flowers and
gardens. Natural plantings of native wild plants and accepted cultivars of wild
plants are a recognized type of landscaping. These areas must be tended,
cultivated in a manner consistent with natural plantings, and confined to a
definite area.
(Ord. 12-2017, passed 10-23-2017)
§ 665.02 TRIMMING OF TREES AND SHRUBS REQUIRED.
   The owner, lessee, agent, tenant or other such person having charge or care
of any lot or parcel of land fronting on any street, alley, avenue or public
grounds in the village, in which trees are planted and growing, shall trim or
cause to be trimmed, all trees or shrubbery in front of the respective lots or
lands when so ordered or directed by the Mayor/Village Administrator. All trees
shall be trimmed so as to have a clear height of ten feet above the surface of
sidewalks and 12 feet above the surface of the street or roadway. The branches
of all trees or shrubs in front and along lots or lands near which public lamps
are placed shall be trimmed so as not to obstruct the free passage of light
from the lamps to the street and sidewalks. Trees and shrubs shall be
maintained so as to allow unobstructed views of street signs and unobstructed
access to fire hydrants.
(Ord. 12-2017, passed 10-23-2017)
§ 665.03 REMOVAL OF DANGEROUS TREES.
   All dead, decaying and broken limbs or branches that overhang a sidewalk or
street, or that area liable to fall thereon, shall be removed from said trees.
When any of said trees are dead, the owner of the premises or the agent of the
owner shall take up or cause to be taken up said dead trees and remove the same
from said lot or parcel of land. The Mayor/Village Administrator is hereby
authorized to remove trees within the limits of the village streets that have
been determined to be dangerous to the public.
(Ord. 12-2017, passed 10-23-2017)
§ 665.04 PLANTING OF TREES AND SHRUBS REGULATED.
   No owner, lessee, agent, tenant or other such person having charge or care
of any land, parcel or lot within the village shall plant or cause to be
planted any tree, bush or shrub in or upon any street, alley, right of way or
any other land owned by the village.
(Ord. 12-2017, passed 10-23-2017)
§ 665.05 NOTICE TO CUT, TRIM OR REMOVE.
   (a)   When determined through inspection by the Mayor/Village Administrator
or his/her designee, that weeds, grass or other undesirable vegetation
exceeding the height specified in §
665.01 or that trees or shrubs exceeding the clear height specified in §
665.02 or that the accumulation of dead, fallen or cut tree branches, limbs or
trimmings as specified in §§
665.03 or 665.09 exist upon any land within the corporate limits of the
village, the Mayor/Village Administrator shall cause notice to be served to the
owner, lessee, agent, tenant or other such person having charge or care of such
land to abate the violation. Such notice shall include the following:
      (1)   An order to cut or destroy the weeds, grass or vegetation or trim
such trees or shrubs or remove such fallen limbs, branches or trimmings within
five days of being given notice to do so.
      (2)   A statement that the village or designated contractor will complete
the work requested after the fifth day, the cost of which shall be assessed to
the property owner as outlined in §§
665.07 and 665.08. Such notice shall also state that the failure of such owner,
occupant or person to remedy the violation as required by such notice shall be
deemed an implied consent for the village to abate or remove such violation.
Such implied consent shall be deemed to form a contract between such owner,
occupant or person and the village.
   (b)   Written notice shall be served by either of the following methods:
      (1)   Delivering notice by the United States first class mail to any of
the owners, lessees, tenants or other persons or entities having charge or care
of land and posting the notice by affixing it to the front of the building in
clear view from the street or affixing it to a free-standing post or stake in
clear view from the street, service being effective upon posting;
      (2)   Publishing the notice once in a local newspaper of general
circulation.
(Ord. 12-2017, passed 10-23-2017)
§ 665.06 FAILURE TO COMPLY; REMEDY OF MUNICIPALITY.
   (a)   In the event the owner, lessee, agent, tenant or other such person
having charge or care of any land, parcel or lot within the village does not
comply with the order to cut or destroy the weeds, grass or undesirable
vegetation or trim the trees or shrubs within the time limit specified in §
665.05 after a proper notice to abate the violation has been issued by the
Village Mayor/Administrator, the Mayor/Village Administrator shall cause such
undesirable vegetation to be cut and destroyed or trees or shrubs to be
trimmed, and may employ the necessary labor and equipment to perform such task,
together with any cleanup work required, within appropriations previously made
by Council. This remedy is in addition to the penalty provided in §
665.99. The village shall not be responsible for damage done to the premises
under the authorization provided in herein unless said damage is done
negligently, recklessly or intentionally.
   (b)   If the owner, lessee, agent, tenant or other such person having charge
of such lots or land fails or refuses to cut or destroy the weeds, grass or
undesirable vegetation or trim the trees or shrubs and it becomes necessary for
the village to abate the violation more than one time during any calendar year,
the Mayor/Village Administrator may charge an additional administrative fee at
the time of notification for the second violation. The Mayor/Village
Administrator may abate subsequent violations without the necessity of further
notice.
(Ord. 12-2017, passed 10-23-2017)
§ 665.07 FEES CHARGED BY MUNICIPALITY.
    (a)   Upon completion of abatement of the violation, the Mayor/Village
Administrator shall invoice the owner for all such work performed at a
liquidated cost of $125 per on-site labor-hour including all equipment,
equipment maintenance, supplies, and overhead costs, with a minimum charge of
$300. If a contractor performs the work, the Mayor/Village Administrator will
invoice the owner for the costs of such cutting and removal shall be
immediately due and payable to the village provided, however, that the
administrative fee shall not exceed $500. The cost and administrative fee shall
be assessed against the lot or land. All fees are subject to the fee schedule
established by the village.
   (b)   Notice of such assessment shall be given to the owner of the lot of
land charged therewith, and the occupant by mailing such notice to the address
utilized by the County Treasurer for tax billing purposes and by posting a
notice of assessment at the subject premises. All assessments not paid within
30 days after such mailing and posting, after approval by the Village Mayor/
Administrator, shall be certified by the Clerk of Council to the County Auditor
to be placed on the tax duplicate and collected as other taxes are collected.
Such assessments are in addition to the penalties provided for in §
665.99 of this section.
(Ord. 12-2017, passed 10-23-2017)
§ 665.08 PAYMENT OF FEES.
   The owner shall pay such fees as are charged in accordance with §
665.07 to the Fiscal Officer within 30 days after receipt of such statement of
costs to avoid further cost or penalty. If the fee is not paid when due, the
Fiscal Officer shall certify to the County Auditor the proceedings taken under
this chapter, together with a statement of the charges for such services as
listed in §
665.07 and a legal description of the premises. Such amounts shall be entered
upon the tax duplicate and shall be a lien upon such lands from the date of
entry and shall be collected as other taxes and returned to the General Fund as
provided by R.C. § 731.54.
(Ord. 12-2017, passed 10-23-2017)
§ 665.09 REMOVAL OF FALLEN BRANCHES, LIMBS AND THE LIKE.
   No owner, agent, lessee, tenant or other person having charge of property
within the village shall cause, or allow to cause, the accumulation of dead,
fallen or cut tree branches, limbs or trimmings on such lands as to constitute
a public nuisance or hazard or which may be considered dangerous to the public
as determined through inspection by the Mayor/Village Administrator or his/her
designee.
(Ord. 12-2017, passed 10-23-2017)
§ 665.10 CUTTING OF WEEDS AND GRASSES IN ADJACENT RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (a)   No person owning, having charge of or being in possession of land
within the village shall fail to keep the adjacent right-of-way between his or
her property and the curb, or edge of street or alley where there is no curb,
free from all weeds.
      (1)   Noxious Weeds Defined. Includes poison ivy, poison oak, poison
sumac, and any additional noxious weeds included in the Ohio Administrative
Code’s list of prohibited noxious weeds  and/or the Ohio noxious weed list
maintained by the United States Department of Agriculture Natural Resources
Conservation Service.
      (2)   Plant Growth Defined. Includes all grasses, annual plants, and
vegetation, other than trees or shrubs. This term does not include cultivated
flowers and gardens. Natural plantings of native wild plants and accepted
cultivars of wild plants are a recognized type of landscaping. These areas must
be tended, cultivated in a manner consistent with natural plantings, and
confined to a definite area.
   (b)   No person owning, having charge of or being in possession of land
within this village shall fail to keep tended the adjacent right-of-way between
such property and the curb, or edge of the street or alley where there is no
curb, by allowing grass and weeds to grow to a height in excess of 6" or to
mature their seeds thereon pursuant to §
665.01.
   (c)   The Mayor/Village Administrator or his/her designee is hereby granted
authority to notify the property owner in writing who is in violation of
division (a) or (b) of this section to cut such weeds or grass and if such
weeds or grass have not been cut within five calendar days of the date of
mailing such notice the Mayor/Village Administrator or his/her designee may
cause the weeds to be removed. The notification shall include a statement that
the village or designated contractor will complete the work requested after the
fifth day, the cost of which shall be assessed to the property owner as
outlined in §§
665.07 and 665.08.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. Each
calendar day that a violation of this section is repeated or continued shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 12-2017, passed 10-23-2017)
§ 665.11 GRASS CLIPPINGS ON PUBLIC SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC STREETS.
   (a)   No grass clippings or foliage shall be deposited onto public sidewalks
or public streets. Grass clippings or foliage are to be removed from the public
street and/or public sidewalk immediately following mowing or trimming.
   (b)   Grass clippings or foliage shall not be dumped or washed into
municipal storm drains or into the municipal storm sewer system.
   (c)   The property owner shall be responsible for ensuring all tenants,
vendors or third parties comply with this section.
(Ord. 12-2017, passed 10-23-2017)
§ 665.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor on a first offense. If the violator has been previously convicted
of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this chapter, the violator shall be
guilty of a fourth degree misdemeanor upon conviction. Sentencing shall be in
accordance with Chapter 698. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each
day on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (b)   Organizations shall be held criminally liable pursuant to Chapter 606.
(Ord. 12-2017, passed 10-23-2017)
CHAPTER 666: SEX RELATED OFFENSES
Section
666.01   Definitions
666.02   Unlawful sexual conduct with a minor
666.03   Sexual imposition
666.04   Reserved
666.05   Voyeurism
666.06   Public indecency
666.07   Procuring; engagement in sexual activity for hire
666.08   Soliciting
666.085   Loitering to engage in solicitation
666.09   Prostitution
666.10   Rules of evidence
666.11   Disseminating matter harmful to juveniles
666.12   Displaying matter harmful to juveniles
666.13   Reserved
666.14   Reserved
666.15   Deception to obtain matter harmful to juveniles
666.16   Presumptions; notice
666.17   Declaratory judgment
666.18   Injunction; abatement of nuisance
666.19   Unlawful operation of viewing booths depicting sexual conduct
666.20   Juveniles on the premises of adult entertainment establishments
prohibited
666.21   Sexually oriented businesses; illegal operation and activity
666.22   Unlawful advertising of massage
666.23   Residence regulations for sexual predators/sexually oriented offenders
666.24   Nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images
666.25   Polygraph examinations for victims; restrictions on use
666.99   Sentencing for sexually oriented offenses; sexual predators;
registration
Cross-reference:
   Definitions generally, see §
606.01
   Sentencing generally, see
Ch. 698
   Sexual conduct with an animal, see §
618.16
   Spreading contagion, see §
660.02
Statutory reference:
   Assistance to victims of sexual assault, see R.C. § 2907.28 through 2907.30
   Child victim, disposition of, see R.C. § 2945.481
   Examination and treatment for venereal disease; HIV tests, see R.C. §
2907.27
   Registration of sex offenders in cities and counties, see R.C. § 2950.01 et
seq.
§ 666.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (a)   “Harmful to juveniles.” That quality of any material or performance
describing or representing nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement or sado-
masochistic abuse in any form to which all of the following apply:
      (1)   The material or performance, when considered as a whole, appeals to
the prurient interest of juveniles in sex.
      (2)   The material or performance is patently offensive to prevailing
standards in the adult community as a whole with respect to what is suitable
for juveniles.
      (3)   The material or performance, when considered as a whole, lacks
serious literary, artistic, political and scientific value for juveniles.
   (b)   “Juvenile.” Any unmarried person under 18 years of age.
   (c)   “Material.” Any book, magazine, newspaper, pamphlet, poster, print,
picture, figure, image, description, motion picture film, video cassette, laser
disc, phonograph record, cassette tape, compact disc or other tangible thing
capable of arousing interest through sight, sound or touch and includes an
image or text appearing on a computer monitor, television screen, liquid
crystal display or similar display device or an image or text recorded on a
computer hard disk, computer floppy disk, compact disk, magnetic tape or
similar data storage device.
   (d)   “Mental health client or patient.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2305.51.
   (e)   “Mental health professional.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2305.115.
   (f)   “Minor.” A person under the age of 18.
   (g)   “Nudity.” The showing, representation or depiction of human male or
female genitals, pubic area or buttocks with less than a full, opaque covering,
or of a female breast with less than a full, opaque covering of any portion
thereof below the top of the nipple, or of covered male genitals in a
discernibly turgid state.
   (h)   “Obscene.” When considered as a whole, and judged with reference to
ordinary adults or, if it is designed for sexual deviates or other specially
susceptible group, judged with reference to that group, any material or
performance is “obscene” if any of the following apply:
      (1)   Its dominant appeal is to prurient interest.
      (2)   Its dominant tendency is to arouse lust by displaying or depicting
sexual activity, masturbation, sexual excitement or nudity in a way that tends
to represent human beings as mere objects of sexual appetite.
      (3)   Its dominant tendency is to arouse lust by displaying or depicting
bestiality or extreme or bizarre violence, cruelty or brutality.
      (4)   Its dominant tendency is to appeal to scatological interest by
displaying or depicting human bodily functions of elimination in a way that
inspires disgust or revulsion in persons with ordinary sensibilities, without
serving any genuine scientific, educational, sociological, moral or artistic
purpose.
      (5)   It contains a series of displays or descriptions of sexual
activity, masturbation, sexual excitement, nudity, bestiality, extreme or
bizarre violence, cruelty or brutality, or human bodily functions of
elimination, the cumulative effect of which is a dominant tendency to appeal to
prurient or scatological interest, when the appeal to such an interest is
primarily for its own sake or for commercial exploitation, rather than
primarily for a genuine scientific, educational, sociological, moral or
artistic purpose.
   (i)   “Performance.” Any motion picture, preview, trailer, play, show, skit,
dance or other exhibition performed before an audience.
   (j)   “Prostitute.” A male or female who promiscuously engages in sexual
activity for hire, regardless of whether the hire is paid to the prostitute or
to another.
   (k)   “Sado-masochistic abuse.” Flagellation or torture by or upon a person
or the condition of being fettered, bound or otherwise physically restrained.
   (l)   “Sexual activity.” Sexual conduct or sexual contact, or both.
   (m)   “Sexual conduct.” Vaginal intercourse between a male and female; anal
intercourse, fellatio and cunnilingus between persons regardless of sex; and,
without privilege to do so, the insertion, however slight, of any part of the
body or any instrument, apparatus or other object into the vaginal or anal
opening of another. Penetration, however slight, is sufficient to complete
vaginal or anal intercourse.
   (n)   “Sexual contact.” Any touching of an erogenous zone of another,
including without limitation the thigh, genitals, buttock, pubic region, or, if
the person is a female, a breast, for the purpose of sexually arousing or
gratifying either person.
   (o)   “Sexual excitement.” The condition of human male or female genitals
when in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
   (p)   “Spouse.” A person married to an offender at the time of an alleged
offense, except that the person shall not be considered the spouse when any of
the following apply:
      (1)   When the parties have entered into a written separation agreement
pursuant to R.C. § 3103.06.
      (2)   When an action is pending between the parties for annulment,
divorce, dissolution of marriage or legal separation.
      (3)   In the case of an action for legal separation, after the effective
date of the judgment for legal separation.
(R.C. § 2907.01)
§ 666.02 UNLAWFUL SEXUAL CONDUCT WITH A MINOR.
   (a)   No person who is 18 years of age or older shall engage in sexual
conduct with another who is not the spouse of the offender, when the offender
knows the other person is 13 years of age or older but less than 16 years of
age, or the offender is reckless in that regard.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful sexual conduct
with a minor.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (b)(2), unlawful sexual
conduct with a minor is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (b)(3) of this section, if
the offender is less than four years older than the other person, unlawful
sexual conduct with a minor is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of R.C. § 2907.02, 2907.03 or 2907.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, or a violation of former R.C. § 2907.12, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, unlawful sexual conduct with a
minor is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.04)
§ 666.03 SEXUAL IMPOSITION.
   (a)   No person shall have sexual contact with another, not the spouse of
the offender; cause another, not the spouse of the offender, to have sexual
contact with the offender; or cause two or more other persons to have sexual
contact when any of the following applies:
      (1)   The offender knows that the sexual contact is offensive to the
other person, or one of the other persons, or is reckless in that regard.
      (2)   The offender knows that the other person’s, or one of the other
person’s ability to appraise the nature of or control the offender’s or
touching person’s conduct is substantially impaired.
      (3)   The offender knows that the other person, or one of the other
persons, submits because of being unaware of the sexual contact.
      (4)   The other person, or one of the other persons, is 13 years of age
or older but less than 16 years of age, whether or not the offender knows the
age of the person, and the offender is at least 18 years of age and four or
more years older than the other person.
      (5)   The offender is a mental health professional, the other person or
one of the other persons is a mental health client or patient of the offender,
and the offender induces the other person who is the client or patient to
submit by falsely representing to the other person who is the client or patient
that the sexual contact is necessary for mental health treatment purposes.
   (b)   No person shall be convicted of a violation of this section solely
upon the victim’s testimony unsupported by other evidence.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of sexual imposition, a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section, R.C. § 2907.02, 2907.03,
2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.06, former R.C. § 2907.12, or a substantially equivalent
state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of this section is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to three or more violations of this section, R.C. § 2907.02,
2907.03, 2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.06, former R.C. § 2907.12, or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any combination of those
sections, a violation of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree and,
notwithstanding the range of jail terms prescribed in R.C. § 2929.24, the court
may impose on the offender a definite jail term of not more than one year.
(R.C. § 2907.06)
Statutory reference:
   Gross sexual imposition, felony, see R.C. § 2907.05
   Notice to licensing board or agency upon indictment, conviction or guilty
plea of mental health professional, see R.C. § 2907.17 and 2907.18
§ 666.04 RESERVED.
§ 666.05 VOYEURISM.
   (a)   No person, for the purpose of sexually arousing or gratifying himself
or herself, shall commit trespass or otherwise surreptitiously invade the
privacy of another, to spy or eavesdrop upon another.
   (b)   No person, for the purpose of sexually arousing or gratifying himself
or herself, shall commit trespass or otherwise surreptitiously invade the
privacy of another to videotape, film, photograph or otherwise record the other
person in a state of nudity.
   (c)   No person, for the purpose of sexually arousing or gratifying himself
or herself, shall commit trespass or otherwise surreptitiously invade the
privacy of another to videotape, film, photograph, otherwise record, or spy or
eavesdrop upon the other person in a state of nudity if the other person is a
minor.
   (d)   No person shall secretly or surreptitiously videotape, film,
photograph or otherwise record another person under or through the clothing
being worn by that person for the purpose of viewing the body of, or the
undergarments worn by, that other person.
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of voyeurism.
      (1)   A violation of division (a) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
      (2)   A violation of division (b) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
second degree.
      (3)   A violation of division (d) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (4)   A violation of division (c) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.08)
§ 666.06 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (a)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following, under
circumstances in which the person’s conduct is likely to be viewed by and
affront others who are in the person’s physical proximity and who are not
members of the person’s household:
      (1)   Expose the person’s private parts.
      (2)   Engage in sexual conduct or masturbation.
      (3)   Engage in conduct that to an ordinary observer would appear to be
sexual conduct or masturbation.
   (b)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following, under circumstances
in which the person’s conduct is likely to be viewed by and affront another
person who is in the person’s physical proximity, who is a minor, and who is
not the spouse of the offender:
      (1)   Engage in masturbation.
      (2)   Engage in sexual conduct.
      (3)   Engage in conduct that to an ordinary observer would appear to be
sexual conduct or masturbation.
      (4)   Expose the person’s private parts with the purpose of personal
sexual arousal or gratification or to lure the minor into sexual activity.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of public indecency and
shall be punished as provided in divisions (c)(2), (c)(3), (c)(4) and (c)(5) of
this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (c)(2), a violation
of division (a)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, a violation of division (a)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the third degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by
the offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations
of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
a violation of division (a)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by the
offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more
violations of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, a violation of division (a)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by
the offender’s conduct was a minor, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (c)(3), a violation
of division (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the third
degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to
one violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a violation of division (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the second degree or, if any person who was likely to view
and be affronted by the offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section or a substantially equivalent
state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of division (a)(2) or (a)(3) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if any personwho was
likely to view and be affronted by the offender’s conduct was a minor, a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (c)(4), a violation
of division (b)(1), (b)(2) or (b)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
second degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law
or municipal ordinance, a violation of division (b)(1), (b)(2) or (b)(3) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this
section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (b)(1), (b)(2) or (b)(3) of this section is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (c)(5), a violation
of division (b)(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation of
this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (b)(4) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (d)   (1)   If either of the following applies, the court may determine at
the time of sentencing whether to classify the offender as a tier I sex
offender/child-victim offender for a violation of division (b)(4) of this
section:
         A.   The offender is less than ten years older than the other person.
         B.   The offender is ten or more years older than the other person and
the offender has not previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any
violation of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance.
      (2)   If the offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (b)(4) of this section, is ten or more years older than the other
person, and previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation
of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the court shall issue an order at the time of sentencing that
classifies the offender as a tier I sex offender/child-victim offender subject
to registration under R.C. § 2950.04, 2950.041, 2950.05, and 2950.06.
(R.C. § 2907.09)
   (e)   A mother is entitled to breast-feed her baby in any location of a
place of public accommodation, as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, wherein the mother
otherwise is permitted.
(R.C. § 3781.55)
Statutory reference:
   Bail considerations for persons charged, see R.C. § 2907.41
§ 666.07 PROCURING; ENGAGEMENT IN SEXUAL ACTIVITY FOR HIRE.
   (a)   No person, knowingly and for gain, shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Entice or solicit another to patronize a prostitute or brothel;
      (2)   Procure a prostitute for another to patronize, or take or direct
another at the other’s request to any place for the purpose of patronizing a
prostitute.
   (b)   No person, having authority or responsibility over the use of
premises, shall knowingly permit the premises to be used for the purpose of
engaging in sexual activity for hire.
   (c)   Whoever violates division (a) or (b) of this section is guilty of
procuring. Except as otherwise provided in this division, procuring is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the prostitute who is procured, patronized,
or otherwise involved in a violation of division (a)(2) of this section is
under 18 years of age at the time of the violation, regardless of whether the
offender who violates division (a)(2) of this section knows the prostitute’s
age, or if a prostitute who engages in sexual activity for hire in premises
used in violation of division (b) of this section is under 18 years of age at
the time of the violation, regardless of whether the offender who violates
division (b) of this section knows the prostitute’s age, procuring is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.23)
   (d)   No person shall recklessly induce, entice, or procure another to
engage in sexual activity for hire in exchange for the person giving anything
of value to the other person.
   (e)   As used in division (d) of this section, "sexual activity for hire"
means an implicit or explicit agreement to provide sexual activity in exchange
for anything of value paid to the person engaging in such sexual activity, to
any person trafficking that person, or to any person associated with either
such person.
   (f)   Whoever violates division (d) of this section is guilty of engaging in
prostitution, a misdemeanor of the first degree. In sentencing the offender
under this division, the court shall require the offender to attend an
education or treatment program aimed at preventing persons from inducing,
enticing, or procuring another to engage in sexual activity for hire in
exchange for the person giving anything of value to the other person and,
notwithstanding the fine specified in R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a) for a misdemeanor
of the first degree, the court may impose upon the offender a fine of not more
than $1,500.
(R.C. § 2907.231)
§ 666.08 SOLICITING.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly solicit another to engage in sexual activity
for hire in exchange for the person receiving anything of value from the other
person.
   (b)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in conduct in violation of division (a) of this section.
   (c)   As used in division (a) of this section, "sexual activity for hire"
means an implicit or explicit agreement to provide sexual activity in exchange
for anything of value paid to the person engaging in such sexual activity, to
any person trafficking that person, or to any person associated with either
such person.
   (d)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of
soliciting. Soliciting is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of engaging
in solicitation after a positive HIV test, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.24)
Statutory reference:
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 666.085 LOITERING TO ENGAGE IN SOLICITATION.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to solicit another to engage in sexual
activity for hire and while in or near a public place, shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Beckon to, stop or attempt to stop another;
      (2)   Engage or attempt to engage another in conversation;
      (3)   Stop or attempt to stop the operator of a vehicle or approach a
stationary vehicle;
      (4)   If the offender is the operator of or a passenger in a vehicle,
stop, attempt to stop, beckon to, attempt to beckon to, or entice another to
approach or enter the vehicle of which the offender is the operator or in which
the offender is the passenger;
      (5)   Interfere with the free passage of another.
   (b)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in conduct in violation of division (a) of this section
   (c)   As used in division (a) of this section:
      (1)   “Public place.” Any of the following:
         A.   A street, road, highway, thoroughfare, bikeway, walkway,
sidewalk, bridge, alley, alleyway, plaza, park, driveway, parking lot or
transportation facility.
         B.   A doorway or entrance way to a building that fronts on a place
described in division (1)A. of this definition.
         C.   A place not described in division (1)A. or (1)B. of this
definition that is open to the public.
      (2)   “Vehicle.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   (d)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of
loitering to engage in solicitation, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of
loitering to engage in solicitation after a positive HIV test, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.241)
Statutory reference:
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 666.09 PROSTITUTION.
   (a)   No person shall engage in sexual activity for hire.
   (b)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in sexual activity for hire.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of
prostitution, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of engaging
in prostitution after a positive HIV test, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.25)
Statutory reference:
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 666.10 RULES OF EVIDENCE.
   (a)   In any case in which it is necessary to prove that a place is a
brothel, evidence as to the reputation of the place and as to the reputation of
the persons who inhabit or frequent it is admissible on the question of whether
the place is or is not a brothel.
   (b)   In any case in which it is necessary to prove that a person is a
prostitute, evidence as to the reputation of the person is admissible on the
question of whether the person is or is not a prostitute.
   (c)   In any prosecution for a violation of §§
666.07 to
666.10, proof of a prior conviction of the accused of any such offense or
substantially equivalent offense is admissible in support of the charge.
   (d)   The prohibition contained in R.C. § 2317.02(D) against testimony by a
husband or wife concerning communications between them does not apply, and the
accused’s spouse may testify concerning any such communication in any of the
following cases:
      (1)   When the husband or wife is charged with a violation of §
666.07 and the spouse testifying was the prostitute involved in the offense or
the person who used the offender’s premises to engage in sexual activity for
hire;
      (2)   When the husband or wife is charged with a violation of §
666.08 or
666.10.
(R.C. § 2907.26)
§ 666.11 DISSEMINATING MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (a)   No person, with knowledge of its character or content, shall
recklessly do any of following:
      (1)   Directly sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit,
rent or present to a juvenile any material or performance that is obscene or
harmful to juveniles;
      (2)   Offer or agree to sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate, provide,
exhibit, rent or present to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement
officer posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles any material or performance that is obscene or harmful to juveniles;
      (3)   While in the physical proximity of the juvenile or law enforcement
officer posing as a juvenile, allow any juvenile or law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile to review or peruse any material or view any live
performance that is harmful to juveniles.
   (b)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under this section
that involves material or a performance that is harmful to juveniles but not
obscene:
      (1)   The defendant is the parent, guardian or spouse of the juvenile
involved.
      (2)   The juvenile involved, at the time of the conduct in question, was
accompanied by his or her parent or guardian who, with knowledge of its
character, consented to the material or performance being furnished or
presented to the juvenile.
      (3)   The juvenile exhibited to the defendant or his or her agent or
employee a draft card, driver’s license, birth record, marriage license or
other official or apparently official document purporting to show that the
juvenile was 18 years of age or over or married, and the person to whom the
document was exhibited did not otherwise have reasonable cause to believe that
the juvenile was under the age of 18 and unmarried.
   (c)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section,
involving material or a performance that is obscene or harmful to juveniles,
that the material or performance was furnished or presented for a bona fide
medical, scientific, educational, governmental, judicial or other proper
purpose, by a physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist, teacher,
librarian, clergy, prosecutor, judge or other proper person.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (b)(3) of this section, mistake of
age is not a defense to a charge under this section.
   (d)   (1)   A person directly sells, delivers, furnishes, disseminates,
provides, exhibits, rents or presents or directly offers or agrees to sell,
deliver, furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit, rent or present material or a
performance to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles in violation of this section by means of an electronic method of
remotely transmitting information if the person knows or has reason to believe
that the person receiving the information is a juvenile or the group of persons
receiving the information are juveniles.
      (2)   A person remotely transmitting information by means of a method of
mass distribution does not directly sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate,
provide, exhibit, rent or present or directly offer or agree to sell, deliver,
furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit, rent or present the material or
performance in question to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement
officer posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles in violation of this section if either of the following applies:
         A.   The person has inadequate information to know or have reason to
believe that a particular recipient of the information or offer is a juvenile.
         B.   The method of mass distribution does not provide the person the
ability to prevent a particular recipient from receiving the information.
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disseminating matter
harmful to juveniles. If the material or performance involved is harmful to
juveniles except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the material or performance
involved is obscene, violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.31)
§ 666.12 DISPLAYING MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (a)   No person who has custody, control or supervision of a commercial
establishment, with knowledge of the character or content of the material
involved, shall display at the establishment any material that is harmful to
juveniles and that is open to view by juveniles as part of the invited general
public.
   (b)   It is not a violation of division (a) of this section if the material
in question is displayed by placing it behind “blinder racks” or similar
devices that cover at least the lower two-thirds of the material, if the
material in question is wrapped or placed behind the counter, or if the
material in question otherwise is covered or located so that the portion that
is harmful to juveniles is not open to the view of juveniles.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of displaying matter harmful
to juveniles, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each day during which the
offender is in violation of this section constitutes a separate offense.
(R.C. § 2907.311)
§ 666.13 RESERVED.
 § 666.14 RESERVED.
§ 666.15 DECEPTION TO OBTAIN MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (a)   No person, for the purpose of enabling a juvenile to obtain any
material or gain admission to any performance which is harmful to juveniles,
shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Falsely represent that he or she is the parent, guardian or spouse
of the juvenile.
      (2)   Furnish the juvenile with any identification or document purporting
to show that the juvenile is 18 years of age or over or married.
   (b)   No juvenile, for the purpose of obtaining any material or gaining
admission to any performance which is harmful to juveniles, shall do either of
the following:
      (1)   Falsely represent that he or she is 18 years of age or over or
married.
      (2)   Exhibit any identification or document purporting to show that he
or she is 18 years of age or over or married.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of deception to obtain matter
harmful to juveniles, a misdemeanor of the second degree. A juvenile who
violates division (b) of this section shall be adjudged an unruly child, with
the disposition of the case as may be appropriate under R.C. Chapter 2151.
(R.C. § 2907.33)
§ 666.16 PRESUMPTIONS; NOTICE.
   (a)   An owner or manager, or agent or employee of an owner or manager, of a
bookstore, newsstand, theater or other commercial establishment engaged in
selling material or exhibiting performances, who, in the course of business
does any of the acts prohibited by §
666.12 is presumed to have knowledge of the character of the material or
performance involved if the owner, manager, or agent or employee of the owner
or manager has actual notice of the nature of the material or performance,
whether or not the owner, manager, or agent or employee of the owner or manager
has precise knowledge of its contents.
   (b)   Without limitation on the manner in which the notice may be given,
actual notice of the character of material or a performance may be given in
writing by the chief legal officer of the municipality. This notice, regardless
of the manner in which it is given, shall identify the sender, identify the
material or performance involved, state whether it is obscene or harmful to
juveniles, and bear the date of the notice.
   (c)   Section 666.12 does not apply to a motion picture operator or
projectionist acting within the scope of employment as an employee of the owner
or manager of the theater or other place for the showing of motion pictures to
the general public, and having no managerial responsibility or financial
interest in the operator’s or projectionist’s place of employment, other than
wages.
   (d)   (1)   The provisions of §§
666.12,
666.13 and
666.14(a) do not apply to a person solely because the person provided access or
connection to or from an electronic method of remotely transferring information
not under that person’s control, including having provided capabilities that
are incidental to providing access or connection to or from the electronic
method of remotely transferring the information, and that do not include the
creation of the content of the material that is the subject of the access or
connection.
      (2)   Division (d)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
conspires with an entity actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of §
666.12,
666.13 or
666.14 or who knowingly advertises the availability of material of that nature.
      (3)   Division (d)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
provides access or connection to an electronic method of remotely transferring
information that is engaged in the violation of §
666.12,
666.13 or
666.14 and that contain content that person has selected and introduced into
the electronic method of remotely transferring information or content over
which that person exercises editorial control.
   (e)   An employer is not guilty of a violation of §
666.12,
666.13 or
666.14 based on the actions of an employee or agent of the employer unless the
employee’s or agent’s conduct is within the scope of the employee’s or agent’s
employment or agency, and the employer does either of the following:
      (1)   With knowledge of the employee’s or agent’s conduct, the employer
authorizes or ratifies the conduct.
      (2)   The employer recklessly disregards the employee’s or agent’s
conduct.
   (f)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under §
666.12 or
666.13 as the section applies to an image transmitted through the internet or
other electronic method of remotely transmitting information that the person
charged with violating the section has taken, in good faith, reasonable,
effective and appropriate actions under the circumstances to restrict or
prevent access by juveniles to material that is harmful to juveniles, including
any method that is feasible under available technology.
(R.C. § 2907.35)
§ 666.17 DECLARATORY JUDGMENT.
   (a)   Without limitation on the persons otherwise entitled to bring an
action for a declaratory judgment pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2721, involving the
same issue, the following persons have standing to bring a declaratory judgment
action to determine whether particular materials or performances are obscene or
harmful to juveniles:
      (1)   The chief legal officer of the municipality if and when there is
reasonable cause to believe that R.C. § 2907.31 or 2907.32, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, is being or is about to be violated;
      (2)   Any person who, pursuant to R.C. § 2907.35(B) or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, has received notice in writing from the chief
legal officer stating that particular materials or performances are obscene or
harmful to juveniles.
   (b)   Any party to an action for a declaratory judgment pursuant to division
(a) of this section is entitled, upon the party’s request, to trial on the
merits within five days after joinder of the issues, and the court shall render
judgment within five days after trial is concluded.
   (c)   An action for a declaratory judgment pursuant to division (a) of this
section shall not be brought during the pendency of any civil action or
criminal prosecution when the character of the particular materials or
performances involved is at issue in the pending case, and either of the
following applies:
      (1)   Either of the parties to the action for a declaratory judgment is a
party to the pending case;
      (2)   A judgment in the pending case will necessarily constitute res
judicata as to the character of the materials or performances involved.
   (d)   A civil action or criminal prosecution in which the character of
particular materials or performances is at issue, brought during the pendency
of an action for a declaratory judgment involving the same issue, shall be
stayed during the pendency of the action for a declaratory judgment.
   (e)   The fact that a violation of R.C. § 2907.31 or 2907.32, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, occurs prior to a judicial
determination of the character of the material or performance involved in the
violation does not relieve the offender of criminal liability for the
violation, even though prosecution may be stayed pending the judicial
determination.
(R.C. § 2907.36)
§ 666.18 INJUNCTION; ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (a)   Where it appears that R.C. § 2907.31 or 2907.32, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, is being or is about to be violated, the chief
legal officer of the municipality may bring an action to enjoin the violation.
The defendant, upon his or her request, is entitled to trial on the merits
within five days after the joinder of the issues, and the court shall render
judgment within five days after the trial is concluded.
   (b)   Premises used or occupied for repeated violations of R.C. § 2907.31 or
2907.32, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, constitute a
nuisance subject to abatement pursuant to R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2907.37)
§ 666.19 UNLAWFUL OPERATION OF VIEWING BOOTHS DEPICTING SEXUAL CONDUCT.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Commercial establishment.” An entity that is open to the public
and to which either of the following applies:
         A.   It has a substantial or significant portion of its stock-in-trade
of the sale, rental or viewing of visual materials or performances depicting
sexual conduct.
         B.   It has as a principal business purpose the sale, rental or
viewing of visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct.
      (2)   “Visual materials or performances.” Films, videos, CD-ROM discs,
streaming video or other motion pictures.
   (b)   No person who has custody, control or supervision of a commercial
establishment, with knowledge of the character of the visual material or
performance involved, shall knowingly permit the use of, or offer the use of,
viewing booths, stalls or partitioned portions of a room located in the
commercial establishment for the purpose of viewing visual materials or
performances depicting sexual conduct unless both of the following apply:
      (1)   The inside of each booth, stall or partitioned room is visible
from, and at least one side of each booth, stall or partitioned room is open
to, a continuous and contiguous main aisle or hallway that is open to the
public areas of the commercial establishment and is not obscured by any
curtain, door or other covering or enclosure.
      (2)   No booth, stall or partitioned room is designed, constructed,
pandered or allowed to be used for the purpose of encouraging or facilitating
nudity or sexual activity on the part of or between patrons or members of the
public, and no booth, stall or partitioned room has any aperture, hole or
opening for the purpose of encouraging or facilitating nudity or sexual
activity.
   (c)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that
either of the following applies to the involved visual materials or
performances:
      (1)   The visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct are
disseminated or presented for a bona fide medical, scientific, educational,
religious, governmental, judicial or other proper purpose and by or to a
physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist, teacher, person pursuing bona
fide studies or research, librarian, member of the clergy, prosecutor, judge or
other person having a proper interest in the visual materials or performances.
      (2)   The visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct,
taken as a whole, would be found by a reasonable person to have serious
literary, artistic, political or scientific value or are presented or
disseminated in good faith for a serious literary, artistic, political or
scientific purpose and are not pandered for their prurient appeal.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of permitting unlawful
operation of viewing booths depicting sexual conduct, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 2907.38)
§ 666.20 JUVENILES ON THE PREMISES OF ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS
PROHIBITED.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Adult arcade.” Any place to which the public is permitted or
invited in which coin-operated, slug-operated or electronically, electrically
or mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors or
other image-producing devices are regularly maintained to show images to five
or fewer persons per machine at any one time, and in which the images so
displayed are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis upon matter
exhibiting or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
      (2)   “Adult bookstore,” “adult novelty store” or “adult video store.”
         A.   A commercial establishment that, for any form of consideration,
has as a significant or substantial portion of its stock-in-trade in, derives a
significant or substantial portion of its revenues from, devotes a significant
or substantial portion of its interior business or advertising to, or maintains
a substantial section of its sales or display space for the sale or rental of
any of the following:
            1.   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, compact discs, slides or
other visual representations, that are characterized by their emphasis upon the
exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas;
            2.   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia that are designed for
use or marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of self or others.
         B.   Includes a commercial establishment as defined in R.C. § 2907.38.
An establishment may have other principal business purposes that do not involve
the offering for sale, rental or viewing of materials exhibiting or describing
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas and still be
categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty store or adult video store.
The existence of other principal business purposes does not exempt an
establishment from being categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty store
or adult video store so long as one of its principal business purposes is
offering for sale or rental, for some form of consideration, such materials
that exhibit or describe specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
      (3)   “Adult cabaret.” A nightclub, bar, juice bar, restaurant, bottle
club or similar commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages
are served, that regularly features any of the following:
         A.   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminudity;
         B.   Live performances that are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities;
         C.   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions that are distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis upon the exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
      (4)   “Adult entertainment.” The sale, rental or exhibition, for any form
of consideration, of books, films, video cassettes, magazines, periodicals or
live performances that are characterized by an emphasis on the exposure or
display of specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activity.
      (5)   “Adult entertainment establishment.” An adult arcade, adult
bookstore, adult novelty store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motion
picture theater, adult theater, nude or seminude model studio or sexual
encounter establishment. An establishment in which a medical practitioner,
psychologist, psychiatrist or similar professional person licensed by the state
engages in medically approved and recognized therapy, including but not limited
to massage therapy, as regulated pursuant to R.C. § 4731.15, is not an “adult
entertainment establishment”.
      (6)   “Adult motion picture theater.” A commercial establishment where
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or similar photographic
reproductions that are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis upon
the exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas are regularly shown for any form of consideration.
      (7)   “Adult theater.” A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar
commercial establishment that, for any form of consideration, regularly
features persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminudity or live
performances that are characterized by their emphasis upon the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities.
      (8)   “Distinguished or characterized by their emphasis upon.” The
dominant or principal character and theme of the object described by this
phrase. For instance, when the phrase refers to films “that are distinguished
or characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition or description of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas”, the films so
described are those whose dominant or principal character and theme are the
exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
      (9)   “Nude or seminude model studio.” Any place where a person, who
regularly appears in a state of nudity or seminudity, is provided for money or
any other form of consideration to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted,
sculptured, photographed or similarly depicted by other persons. A modeling
class or studio is not a “nude or seminude model studio” and is not subject to
this chapter if it is operated in any of the following ways:
         A.   By a college or university supported entirely or partly by
taxation;
         B.   By a private college or university that maintains and operates
educational programs, the credits for which are transferable to a college or
university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
         C.   In a structure that has no sign visible from the exterior of the
structure and no other advertising indicating that a person appearing in a
state of nudity or seminudity is available for viewing, if in order to
participate in a class in the structure, a student must enroll at least three
days in advance of the class and if not more than one nude or seminude model is
on the premises at any one time.
      (10)   “Nudity,” “nude” or “state of nudity.” The showing of the human
male or female genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft or cleavage with
less than a fully opaque covering; or the showing of the female breasts with
less than a fully opaque covering of any part of the nipple.
      (11)   “Regularly features” or “regularly shown.” A consistent or
substantial course of conduct, such that the films or performances exhibited
constitute a substantial portion of the films or performances offered as a part
of the ongoing business of the adult entertainment establishment.
      (12)   “Seminude” or “state of seminudity.” A state of dress in which
opaque clothing covers not more than the genitals, pubic region and nipple of
the female breast, as well as portions of the body covered by supporting straps
or devices.
      (13)   “Sexual encounter establishment.”
         A.   A business or commercial establishment that, as one of its
principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration a place where
either of the following occur:
            1.   Two or more persons may congregate, associate or consort for
the purpose of engaging in specified sexual activities.
            2.   Two or more persons appear nude or seminude for the purpose of
displaying their nude or seminude bodies for their receipt of consideration or
compensation in any type or form.
         B.   An establishment where a medical practitioner, psychologist,
psychiatrist or similar professional person licensed by the state engages in
medically approved and recognized therapy, including but not limited to massage
therapy, as regulated pursuant to R.C. § 4731.15, is not a “sexual encounter
establishment”.
      (14)   “Specified anatomical areas.” The cleft of the buttocks, anus,
male or female genitals, or the female breast.
      (15)   “Specified sexual activity.” Any of the following:
         A.   Sex acts, normal or perverted, or actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation or sodomy;
         B.   Excretory functions as a part of or in connection with any of the
activities described in division A. of this definition.
   (b)   No person knowingly shall allow an individual, including but not
limited to a patron, customer, or employee, who is under 18 years of age on the
premises of an adult entertainment establishment.
   (c)   No individual who is under 18 years of age knowingly shall show or
give false information concerning the individual’s name or age, or other false
identification, for the purpose of gaining entrance to an adult entertainment
establishment.
   (d)   A person shall not be found guilty of a violation of division (b) of
this section if the person raises as an affirmative defense and if the jury or,
in a nonjury trial, the court finds the person has established by a
preponderance of the evidence, all of the following:
      (1)   The individual gaining entrance to the adult entertainment
establishment exhibited to an operator, employee, agent or independent
contractor of the adult entertainment establishment a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card issued under R.C. § 4507.50 and
4507.52 showing that the individual was then at least 18 years of age.
      (2)   The operator, employee, agent or independent contractor made a bona
fide effort to ascertain the true age of the individual gaining entrance to the
adult entertainment establishment by checking the identification presented, at
the time of entrance, to ascertain that the description on the identification
compared with the appearance of the individual and that the identification had
not been altered in any way.
      (3)   The operator, employee, agent or independent contractor had reason
to believe that the individual gaining entrance to the adult entertainment
establishment was at least 18 years of age.
   (e)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense described in
division (d) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or the
Deputy Registrar who issued a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an
identification card under R.C. § 4507.50 and 4507.52 shall be permitted to
submit certified copies of the records, in the Registrar’s or Deputy
Registrar’s possession, of the issuance of the license or identification card
in question, in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of the Bureau of Motor
Vehicles in the action.
   (f)   (1)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of
permitting a juvenile on the premises of an adult entertainment establishment,
a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each day a person violates this division
constitutes a separate offense.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (c) of this section is guilty of use by a
juvenile of false information to enter an adult entertainment establishment, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if committed by
an adult.
(R.C. § 2907.39)
§ 666.21 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; ILLEGAL OPERATION AND ACTIVITY.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Adult bookstore” or “adult video store.” A commercial
establishment that has as a significant or substantial portion of its stock-in-
trade or inventory in, derives a significant or substantial portion of its
revenues from, devotes a significant or substantial portion of its interior
business or advertising to, or maintains a substantial section of its sales or
display space for the sale or rental, for any form of consideration, of books,
magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or photographs, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, compact discs, slides or other visual
representations, that are characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition
or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (2)   “Adult cabaret.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      (3)   “Adult motion picture theater.” A commercial establishment where
films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or similar photographic
reproductions that are characterized by their emphasis upon the display of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas are regularly shown
to more than five individuals for any form of consideration.
      (4)   “Characterized by.” Describing the essential character or quality
of an item.
      (5)   “Employee.” Any individual who performs any service on the premises
of a sexually oriented business on a full-time, part-time or contract basis,
regardless of whether the individual is denominated an employee, independent
contractor, agent or otherwise, but does not include an individual exclusively
on the premises for repair or maintenance of the premises or for the delivery
of goods to the premises.
      (6)   “Nudity,” “nude” or “state of nudity.” Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2907.39.
      (7)   “Operator.” Any individual on the premises of a sexually oriented
business who causes the business to function or who puts or keeps in operation
the business or who is authorized to manage the business or exercise overall
operational control of the business premises.
      (8)   “Patron.” Any individual on the premises of a sexually oriented
business except for any of the following:
         A.   An operator or an employee of the sexually oriented business;
         B.   An individual who is on the premises exclusively for repair or
maintenance of the premises or for the delivery of goods to the premises;
         C.   A public employee or a volunteer firefighter emergency medical
services worker acting within the scope of the public employee’s or volunteer’s
duties as a public employee or volunteer.
      (9)   “Premises.” The real property on which the sexually oriented
business is located and all appurtenances to the real property, including but
not limited to the sexually oriented business, the grounds, private walkways
and parking lots or parking garages adjacent to the real property under the
ownership, control or supervision of the owner or operator of the sexually
oriented business.
      (10)   “Regularly.” Consistently or repeatedly.
      (11)   “Seminude” or “state of seminudity.” Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2907.39.
      (12)   “Sexual device.” Any three-dimensional object designed and
marketed for stimulation of the male or female human genitals or anus or female
breasts or for sadomasochistic use or abuse of oneself or others, including but
not limited to dildos, vibrators, penis pumps and physical representations of
the human genital organs, but not including devices primarily intended for
protection against sexually transmitted diseases or for preventing pregnancy.
      (13)   “Sexual device shop.” A commercial establishment that regularly
features sexual devices, but not including any pharmacy, drug store, medical
clinic or establishment primarily dedicated to providing medical or healthcare
products or services, and not including any commercial establishment that does
not restrict access to its premises by reason of age.
      (14)   “Sexual encounter center.” A business or commercial enterprise
that, as one of its principal business purposes, purports to offer for any form
of consideration physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
individuals of the opposite sex when one or more of the individuals is nude or
seminude.
      (15)   “Sexually oriented business.” An adult bookstore, adult video
store, adult cabaret, adult motion picture theater, sexual device shop or
sexual encounter center, but does not include a business solely by reason of
its showing, selling or renting materials that may depict sex.
      (16)   “Specified anatomical areas.” Includes human genitals, pubic
region and buttocks and the human female breast below a point immediately above
the top of the areola.
      (17)   “Specified sexual activity.” Sexual intercourse, oral copulation,
masturbation or sodomy, or excretory functions as a part of or in connection
with any of these activities.
   (b)   No sexually oriented business shall be or remain open for business
between midnight and 6:00 a.m. on any day, except that a sexually oriented
business that holds a liquor permit pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4303 may remain
open until the hour specified in that permit if it does not conduct, offer or
allow sexually oriented entertainment activity in which the performers appear
nude.
   (c)   (1)   No patron who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family
shall knowingly touch any employee while that employee is nude or seminude or
touch the clothing of any employee while that employee is nude or seminude.
      (2)   No employee who regularly appears nude or seminude on the premises
of a sexually oriented business, while on the premises of that sexually
oriented business and while nude or seminude, shall knowingly touch a patron
who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who
is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or the clothing of a patron
who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who
is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or allow a patron who is not
a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who is not a
member of the employee’s immediate family to touch the employee or the clothing
of the employee.
   (d)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of illegally
operating a sexually oriented business, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (e)   Whoever violates division (c) of this section is guilty of illegal
sexually oriented activity in a sexually oriented business. If the offender
touches a specified anatomical area of the patron or employee, or the clothing
covering a specified anatomical area, a violation of division (c) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender does not touch a
specified anatomical area of the patron or employee, or the clothing covering a
specified anatomical area, a violation of division (c) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2907.40)
Statutory reference:
   State indemnification for certain municipal liability stemming from local
adult business regulations, see R.C. § 715.55
§ 666.22 UNLAWFUL ADVERTISING OF MASSAGE.
   (a)   No person, by means of a statement, solicitation, or offer in a print
or electronic publication, sign, placard, storefront display, or other medium,
shall advertise massage, relaxation massage, any other massage technique or
method, or any related service, with the suggestion or promise of sexual
activity.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful advertising of
massage, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (c)   Nothing in this section prevents the municipality from enacting any
regulation of the advertising of massage further than and in addition to the
provisions of divisions (a) and (b) of this section.
   (d)   As used in this section, “sexual activity” has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2907.01.
(R.C. § 2927.17)
§ 666.23 RESIDENCE REGULATIONS FOR SEXUAL PREDATORS/SEXUALLY ORIENTED
OFFENDERS.
   (a)   No person who has been convicted of, is convicted of, who has pleaded
guilty to, or who pleads guilty to either: (1) a sexually oriented offense that
is not a registration-exempt sexually oriented offense for a crime committed
against a child; or (2) a child-victim oriented offense; and who have been
classified as a sexually oriented offender as to either (1) or (2) above, from
establishing a residence or occupying residential premises within 1,500 feet of
any public or private school premise, licensed day care facility, pre-school,
public or private park or playground, library, or public swimming pool.
   (b)   If a person to whom division (a) above applies violates the provisions
of division (a) by establishing a residence or occupying residential premises
within 1,500 feet of any public or private school premise, licensed day care
facility, pre-school, public or private park or playground, library or public
swimming pool located within the village, the Village Solicitor has a cause of
action for injunctive relieve against the person. The Village of Minerva Park
shall not be required to prove irreparable harm in order to obtain the relief.
   (c)   The provisions of the Ohio Revised Code which are now or hereafter in
effect concerning the definition, determination, registration or classification
of a person who has been convicted of, is convicted of, has plead guilty to, or
pleads guilty to either a sexually oriented offense that is not a registration-
exempt sexually oriented offense or a child-victim oriented offense and has
been classified as a sexual predator, are hereby adopted.
   (d)   The determinations and intent articulated in R.C. § 2950.02 are hereby
adopted. Further, definitions contained in R.C. § 2950.01 as are not
inconsistent with the following are adopted: private park or playground shall
include any private park or playground whether active or passive, whether owned
or maintained by an individual or organization to which the public has access.
The park or playground shall not include individual residences or lots which
are not generally available to or used by the public.
(Ord. 13-2007, passed 11-12-2007)
§ 666.24 NONCONSENSUAL DISSEMINATION OF PRIVATE SEXUAL IMAGES.
   (a)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Cable service provider.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
1332.01.
      (2)   “Direct-to-home satellite service.” Has the meaning defined in 47
U.S.C. § 303, as amended.
      (3)   “Disseminate.” Means to post, distribute, or publish on a computer
device, computer network, web site, or other electronic device or medium of
communication.
      (4)   “Image.” Means a photograph, film, videotape, digital recording, or
other depiction or portrayal of a person.
      (5)   “Interactive computer service.” Has the meaning defined in the
“Telecommunications Act of 1996”, 47 U.S.C. § 230, as amended.
      (6)   “Internet provider.” Means a provider of internet service,
including all of the following:
         A.   Broadband service, however defined or classified by the Federal
Communications Commission;
         B.   Information service or telecommunications service, both as
defined in the “Telecommunications Act of 1996”, 47 U.S.C. § 153, as amended;
         C.   Internet protocol-enabled services, as defined in R.C. § 4927.01.
      (7)   “Mobile service.” Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153, as
amended.
      (8)   “Sexual act.” Means any of the following:
         A.   Sexual activity;
         B.   Masturbation;
         C.   An act involving a bodily substance that is performed for the
purpose of sexual arousal or gratification;
         D.   Sado-masochistic abuse.
      (9)   “Telecommunications carrier.” Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C.
§ 153, as amended.
      (10)   “Video service provider.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
1332.21.
   (b)   No person shall knowingly disseminate an image of another person if
all of the following apply:
      (1)   The person in the image is 18 years of age or older.
      (2)   The person in the image can be identified from the image itself or
from information displayed in connection with the image and the offender
supplied the identifying information.
      (3)   The person in the image is in a state of nudity or is engaged in a
sexual act.
      (4)   The image is disseminated without consent from the person in the
image.
      (5)   The image is disseminated with intent to harm the person in the
image.
   (c)   This section does not prohibit the dissemination of an image if any of
the following apply:
      (1)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of a criminal
investigation that is otherwise lawful.
      (2)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of, or in connection
with, the reporting of unlawful conduct.
      (3)   The image is part of a news report or commentary or an artistic or
expressive work, such as a performance, work of art, literary work, theatrical
work, musical work, motion picture, film, or audiovisual work.
      (4)   The image is disseminated by a law enforcement officer, or a
corrections officer or guard in a detention facility, acting within the scope
of the person’s official duties.
      (5)   The image is disseminated for another lawful public purpose.
      (6)   The person in the image is knowingly and willingly in a state of
nudity or engaged in a sexual act and is knowingly and willingly in a location
in which the person does not have a reasonable expectation of privacy.
      (7)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of medical treatment or
examination.
   (d)   The following entities are not liable for a violation of this section
solely as a result of an image or other information provided by another person:
      (1)   A provider of interactive computer service;
      (2)   A mobile service;
      (3)   A telecommunications carrier;
      (4)   An internet provider;
      (5)   A cable service provider;
      (6)   A direct-to-home satellite service;
      (7)   A video service provider.
   (e)   Any conduct that is a violation of this section and any other section
of this Code or the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under this section, the
other section, or both sections.
   (f)   (1)   A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (f)(1)B., (f)
(1)C., or (f)(1)D. of this section, whoever violates this section is guilty of
nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images, a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
         B.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of this section or any substantially equivalent state or
local law, nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images is a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
         C.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section or any substantially
equivalent state or local law, nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual
images is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         D.   If the offender is under 18 years of age and the person in the
image is not more than five years older than the offender, the offender shall
not be prosecuted under this section.
      (2)   In addition to any other penalty or disposition authorized or
required by law, the court may order any person who is convicted of a violation
of this section or who is adjudicated delinquent by reason of a violation of
this section to criminally forfeit all of the following property to the state
under R.C. Chapter 2981:
         A.   Any profits or proceeds and any property the person has acquired
or maintained in violation of this section that the sentencing court determines
to have been acquired or maintained as a result of the violation;
         B.   Any interest in, securities of, claim against, or property or
contractual right of any kind affording a source of influence over any
enterprise that the person has established, operated, controlled, or conducted
in violation of this section that the sentencing court determines to have been
acquired or maintained as a result of the violation.
   (g)   A victim of a violation of this section may commence a civil cause of
action against the offender, as described in R.C. § 2307.66.
(R.C. § 2917.211)
§ 666.25 POLYGRAPH EXAMINATIONS FOR VICTIMS; RESTRICTIONS ON USE.
   (a)   (1)   A peace officer, prosecutor, or other public official shall not
ask or require a victim of an alleged sex offense to submit to a polygraph
examination as a condition for proceeding with the investigation of the alleged
sex offense.
      (2)   The refusal of the victim of an alleged sex offense to submit to a
polygraph examination shall not prevent the investigation of the alleged sex
offense, the filing of criminal charges with respect to the alleged sex
offense, or the prosecution of the alleged perpetrator of the alleged sex
offense.
   (b)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      A.   “Peace officer.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.51.
      B.   “Polygraph examination.” Any mechanical or electrical instrument or
device of any type used or allegedly used to examine, test or question an
individual for the purpose of determining the individual’s truthfulness.
      C.   “Prosecution.” The prosecution of criminal charges in a criminal
prosecution or the prosecution of a delinquent child complaint in a delinquency
proceeding.
      D.   “Prosecutor.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
      E.   “Public official.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 117.01.
      F.   “Sex offense.” A violation of any provision of §§
666.02 to
666.05 or R.C. § 2907.02 to 2907.09.
(R.C. § 2907.10)
§ 666.99 SENTENCING FOR SEXUALLY ORIENTED OFFENSES; SEXUAL PREDATORS;
REGISTRATION.
   (a)   If an offender is being sentenced for a sexually oriented offense or
child-victim oriented offense that is a misdemeanor committed on or after
January 1, 1997, and the offender is a tier III sex offender/child-victim
offender relative to the offense or the offense is any offense listed in R.C. §
2901.07(D)(1) to (D)(3), the judge shall include in the offender’s sentence a
statement that the offender is a tier III sex offender/child-victim offender,
shall comply with the requirements of R.C. § 2950.03, and shall require the
offender to submit to a DNA specimen collection procedure pursuant to R.C. §
2901.07.
   (b)   If an offender is being sentenced for a sexually oriented offense or a
child-victim oriented offense that is a misdemeanor committed on or after
January 1, 1997, the judge shall include in the sentence a summary of the
offender’s duties imposed under R.C. § 2950.04, 2950.041, 2950.05 and 2950.06,
and the duration of the duties. The judge shall inform the offender, at the
time of sentencing, of those duties and of their duration. If required under
R.C. § 2950.03(A)(2), the judge shall perform the duties specified in that
section or, if required under R.C. § 2950.03(A)(6), the judge shall perform the
duties specified in that division.
(R.C. § 2929.23)
CHAPTER 672: THEFT AND FRAUD
Section
672.01   Theft
672.02   Receiving stolen property
672.03   Determining property value in theft offense
672.04   Degree of offense when certain property involved
672.045   Evidence of theft of rented property
672.05   Tampering with coin machines
672.06   Prosecutions for theft of utilities
672.07   Misconduct involving a public transportation system
672.08   Unauthorized use of a vehicle; vehicle trespass
672.09   Passing bad checks
672.10   Misuse of credit cards
672.11   Recording credit card, telephone or Social Security numbers
672.12   Forging or selling forged identification cards
672.125   Criminal simulation
672.13   Making or using slugs
672.14   Prima facie evidence of purpose to defraud
672.15   Tampering with records
672.16   Securing writings by deception
672.17   Personating an officer
672.18   Defrauding creditors
672.19   Reserved
672.20   Insurance fraud
672.21   Workers’ compensation fraud
672.22   Medicaid fraud
672.23   Identity Fraud
672.24   Diminishing or interfering with forfeitable property
672.25   Motion picture piracy
Cross-reference:
   Disposition of unclaimed or forfeited property held by Police Department,
see §
608.16
   Detention of shoplifters and those committing motion picture piracy;
protection of institutional property, see §
608.17
   Definitions relating to theft and fraud, see §
642.01
   Possession of municipal property, see §
642.02
   Unauthorized use of property, see §
642.03
   Possessing criminal tools, see §
678.12
§ 672.01 THEFT.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to deprive the owner of property or services,
shall knowingly obtain or exert control over either the property or services in
any of the following ways:
      (1)   Without the consent of the owner or person authorized to give
consent;
      (2)   Beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of the owner or
person authorized to give consent;
      (3)   By deception;
      (4)   By threat;
      (5)   By intimidation.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of theft. Except as otherwise
provided in this division, a violation of this section is petty theft, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If any of the following criteria are met, then
a violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law:
      (1)   If the value of the property or services is $1,000 or more;
      (2)   If the property stolen is any of the property listed in R.C. §
2913.71;
      (3)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person, disabled adult,
active duty service member, or spouse of an active duty service member;
      (4)   If the property stolen is a firearm or dangerous ordnance;
      (5)   If the property stolen is a motor vehicle;
      (6)   If the property stolen is any dangerous drug, or if the offender
previously has been convicted of a felony drug abuse offense;
      (7)   If the property stolen is a police dog or horse or an assistance
dog and the offender knows or should know that the property stolen is a police
dog or horse or an assistance dog;
      (8)   If the property stolen is anhydrous ammonia; or
      (9)   If the property stolen is a special purchase article as defined in
R.C. § 4737.04 or is a bulk merchandise container as defined in R.C. §
4737.012.
   (c)   In addition to the penalties described in division (b) of this
section, if the offender committed the violation by causing a motor vehicle to
leave the premises of an establishment at which gasoline is offered for retail
sale without the offender making full payment for gasoline that was dispensed
into the fuel tank of the motor vehicle or into another container, the court
may do one of the following:
      (1)   Unless division (c)(2) of this section applies, suspend for not
more than six months the offender’s driver’s license, probationary driver’s
license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit or
nonresident operating privilege;
      (2)   If the offender’s driver’s license, probationary driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit or nonresident
operating privilege has previously been suspended pursuant to division (c)(1)
of this section, or any other substantially equivalent state or local law,
impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s license, permit or privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7), provided that the suspension
shall be at least six months;
      (3)   The court, in lieu of suspending the offender’s driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, probationary driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or nonresident operating privilege pursuant to division (c)
(1) or (c)(2) of this section, instead may require the offender to perform
community service for a number of hours determined by the court.
   (d)   In addition to the penalties described in division (b) of this
section, if the offender committed the violation by stealing rented property or
rental services, the court may order that the offender make restitution
pursuant to R.C. § 2929.18 or 2929.28. Restitution may include, but is not
limited to, the cost of repairing or replacing the stolen property, or the cost
of repairing the stolen property and any loss of revenue resulting from
deprivation of the property due to theft of rental services that is less than
or equal to the actual value of the property at the time it was rented.
Evidence of intent to commit theft of rented property or rental services shall
be determined pursuant to the provisions of R.C. § 2913.72.
   (e)   The sentencing court that suspends an offender’s license, permit, or
nonresident operating privilege under division (c) of this section may grant
the offender limited driving privileges during the period of the suspension in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 4510.
(R.C. § 2913.02)
Statutory reference:
   Felony theft provisions, see R.C. § 2913.02(B)
§ 672.02 RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY.
   (a)   No person shall receive, retain or dispose of property of another
knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the property has been
obtained through commission of a theft offense.
   (b)   It is not a defense to a charge of receiving stolen property in
violation of this section that the property was obtained by means other than
through the commission of a theft offense if the property was explicitly
represented to the accused person as being obtained through the commission of a
theft offense.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of receiving stolen property.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, receiving stolen property is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If any of the following criteria are met, then
a violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law:
      (1)   The value of the property involved is $1,000 or more;
      (2)   The property involved is any of the property listed in R.C. §
2913.71;
      (3)   The property involved is a firearm or dangerous ordnance, as
defined in R.C. § 2923.11;
      (4)   The property involved is a motor vehicle as defined in R.C. §
4501.01;
      (5)   The property involved is any dangerous drug, as defined in R.C. §
4729.01; or
      (6)   The property involved in violation of this section is a special
purchase article as defined in R.C. § 4737.04 or a bulk merchandise container
as defined in R.C. § 4737.012.
(R.C. § 2913.51)
§ 672.03 DETERMINING PROPERTY VALUE IN THEFT OFFENSE.
   (a)   If more than one item of property or services is involved in a theft
offense or in a violation of R.C. § 1716.14(A) involving a victim who is an
elderly person or disabled adult, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, the value of the property or services involved for the purpose of
determining the value as required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value
of all property or services involved in the offense.
   (b)   (1)   When a series of offenses under R.C. § 2913.02, or a series of
violations of, attempts to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate, or
complicity in violations of R.C. § 1716.14(A), 2913.02, 2913.03 or 2913.04,
2913.21(B)(1) or (B)(2), or 2913.31 or 2913.43 involving a victim who is an
elderly person or disabled adult, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance to any of these offenses, is committed by the offender in the
offender’s same employment, capacity or relationship to another, all of those
offenses shall be tried as a single offense. When a series of offenses under
R.C. § 2913.02, or a series of violations of, attempts to commit a violation
of, conspiracies to violate, or complicity in violations of R.C. § 2913.02 or
2913.43 involving a victim who is an active duty service member or spouse of an
active duty service member, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance
to any of these offenses, is committed by the offender in the offender’s same
employment, capacity, or relationship to another, all of those offenses shall
be tried as a single offense. The value of the property or services involved in
the series of offenses for the purpose of determining the value as required by
R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value of all property and services involved
in all offenses in the series.
      (2)   If an offender commits a series of offenses under R.C. § 2913.02
that involves a common course of conduct to defraud multiple victims, all of
the offenses may be tried as a single offense. If an offender is being tried
for the commission of a series of violations of, attempts to commit a violation
of, conspiracies to violate, or complicity in violations of R.C. § 1716.14(A),
2913.02, 2913.03 or 2913.04, 2913.21(B)(1) or (B)(2), or 2913.31 or 2913.43,
whether committed against one victim or more than one victim, involving a
victim who is an elderly person or disabled adult, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, pursuant to a scheme
or course of conduct, all of those offenses may be tried as a single offense.
If an offender is being tried for the commission of a series of violations of,
attempts to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate, or complicity in
violations of R.C. § 2913.02 or 2913.43, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, whether committed against one
victim or more than one victim, involving a victim who is an active duty
service member or spouse of an active duty service member pursuant to a scheme
or course of conduct, all of those offenses may be tried as a single offense.
If the offenses are tried as a single offense, the value of the property or
services involved for the purpose of determining the value as required by R.C.
§ 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value of all property and services involved in
all of the offenses in the course of conduct.
      (3)   When a series of two or more offenses under R.C. § 2913.40,
2913.48, or 2921.41 is committed by the offender in the offender’s same
employment, capacity or relationship to another, all of those offenses may be
tried as a single offense. If the offenses are tried as a single offense, the
value of the property or services involved for the purpose of determining the
value as required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value of all property
and services involved in all of the offenses in the series of two or more
offenses.
      (4)   In prosecuting a single offense under division (b)(1), (b)(2) or
(b)(3) of this section, it is not necessary to separately allege and prove each
offense in the series. Rather, it is sufficient to allege and prove that the
offender, within a given span of time, committed one or more theft offenses or
violations of R.C. § 2913.40, 2913.48, or 2921.41 in the offender’s same
employment, capacity, or relationship to another as described in division (b)
(1) or (b)(3) of this section, or committed one or more theft offenses that
involve a common course of conduct to defraud multiple victims or a scheme or
course of conduct as described in division (b)(2) of this section. While it is
not necessary to separately allege and prove each offense in the series in
order to prosecute a single offense under division (b)(1), (b)(2), or (b)(3) of
this section, it remains necessary in prosecuting them as a single offense to
prove the aggregate value of the property or services in order to meet the
requisite statutory offense level sought by the prosecution.
   (c)   The following criteria shall be used in determining the value of
property or services involved in a theft offense:
      (1)   The value of an heirloom, memento, collector’s item, antique,
museum piece, manuscript, document, record or other thing that has intrinsic
worth to its owner and that either is irreplaceable or is replaceable only on
the expenditure of substantial time, effort or money, is the amount which would
compensate the owner for its loss.
      (2)   The value of personal effects and household goods, and of
materials, supplies, equipment and fixtures used in the profession, business,
trade, occupation, or avocation of its owner, which property is not covered
under division (c)(1) of this section, and which retains substantial utility
for its purpose regardless of its age or condition, is the cost of replacing
the property with new property of like kind and quality.
      (3)   The value of any real or personal property that is not covered
under division (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section, and the value of services, is
the fair market value of the property or services. As used in this section,
“fair market value” is the money consideration which a buyer would give and a
seller would accept for property or services, assuming that the buyer is
willing to buy and the seller is willing to sell, that both are fully informed
as to all facts material to the transaction, and that neither is under any
compulsion to act.
   (d)   Without limitation on the evidence which may be used to establish the
value of property or services involved in a theft offense:
      (1)   When the property involved is personal property held for sale at
wholesale or retail, the price at which the property was held for sale is prima
facie evidence of its value.
      (2)   When the property involved is a security or commodity traded on an
exchange, the closing price or, if there is no closing price, the asked price,
given in the latest marked quotation prior to the offense, is prima facie
evidence of the value of the security or commodity.
      (3)   When the property involved is livestock, poultry or raw
agricultural products for which a local market price is available, the latest
local market price prior to the offense is prima facie evidence of the value of
the livestock, poultry or products.
      (4)   When the property involved is a negotiable instrument, the face
value is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (5)   When the property involved is a warehouse receipt, bill of lading,
pawn ticket, claim check or other instrument entitling the holder or bearer to
receive property, the face value or, if there is no face value, the value of
the property covered by the instrument less any payment necessary to receive
the property, is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (6)   When the property involved is a ticket of admission, ticket for
transportation, coupon, token or other instrument entitling the holder or
bearer to receive property or services, the face value or, if there is no face
value, the value of the property or services which may be received by the
instrument is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (7)   When the services involved are gas, electricity, water, telephone,
transportation, shipping or other services for which the rate is established by
law, the duly established rate is prima facie evidence of the value of the
services.
      (8)   When the services involved are services for which the rate is not
established by law, and the offender has been notified prior to the offense of
the rate for the services, either in writing or orally, or by posting in a
manner reasonably calculated to come to the attention of potential offenders,
the rate contained in the notice is prima facie evidence of the value of the
services.
(R.C. § 2913.61(B) - (E))
§ 672.04 DEGREE OF OFFENSE WHEN CERTAIN PROPERTY INVOLVED.
   Regardless of the value of the property involved, and regardless of whether
the offender previously has been convicted of a theft offense, a violation of
§§
672.01 or
672.02 is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the property
involved is any of the following:
   (a)   A credit card;
   (b)   A printed form for a check or other negotiable instrument, that on its
face identifies the drawer or maker for whose use it is designed or identifies
the account on which it is to be drawn, and that has not been executed by the
drawer or maker or on which the amount is blank;
   (c)   A motor vehicle identification license plate as prescribed by R.C. §
4503.22, a temporary motor vehicle license registration as prescribed by R.C. §
4503.182, or any comparable temporary motor vehicle license registration as
prescribed by the applicable law of another state or the United States;
   (d)   A blank form for a certificate of title or a manufacturer’s or
importer’s certificate to a motor vehicle, as prescribed by R.C. § 4505.07;
   (e)   A blank form for any license listed in R.C. § 4507.01.
(R.C. § 2913.71)
§ 672.045 EVIDENCE OF THEFT OF RENTED PROPERTY.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Rentee.” A person who pays consideration to a renter for the use
of rented property.
      (2)   “Renter.” A person who owns rented property.
   (b)   Each of the following shall be considered evidence of intent to commit
theft of rented property or rental services:
      (1)   At the time of entering into the rental contract, the rentee
presented the renter with identification that was materially false, fictitious
or not current with respect to name, address, place of employment or other
relevant information.
      (2)   After receiving a notice demanding the return of the rented
property as provided in division (c) of this section, the rentee neither
returned the rented property nor made arrangements acceptable with the renter
to return the rented property.
   (c)   To establish that a rentee has an intent to commit theft of rented
property or rental services under division (b)(2) above, a renter may issue a
notice to a rentee demanding the return of the rented property. The renter
shall mail the notice by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
rentee at the address the rentee gave when the rental contract was executed, or
to the rentee at the last address the rentee or the rentee’s agent furnished in
writing to the renter.
   (d)   A demand for the return of the rented property is not a prerequisite
for the prosecution of a rentee for theft of rented property or rental
services. The evidence specified in division (b) above does not constitute the
only evidence that may be considered as evidence of intent to commit theft of
rented property or rental services.
(R.C. § 2913.72)
§ 672.05 TAMPERING WITH COIN MACHINES.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to commit theft or to defraud, shall knowingly
enter, force an entrance into, tamper with or insert any part of an instrument
into any coin machine.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of tampering with coin
machines, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a violation of this section or of any theft offense as
defined in R.C. § 2913.01, tampering with coin machines is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2911.32)
§ 672.06 PROSECUTIONS FOR THEFT OF UTILITIES.
   (a)   In a prosecution for a theft offense, as defined in R.C. § 2913.01,
that involves alleged tampering with a gas, electric, steam or water meter,
conduit or attachment of a utility that has been disconnected by the utility,
proof that a meter, conduit or attachment of a utility has been tampered with
is prima facie evidence that the person who is obligated to pay for the service
rendered through the meter, conduit or attachment, and who is in possession or
control of the meter, conduit or attachment at the time the tampering occurred
has caused the tampering with intent to commit a theft offense.
   (b)   In a prosecution for a theft offense, as defined in R.C. § 2913.01,
that involves the alleged reconnection of a gas, electric, steam or water
meter, conduit or attachment of a utility that has been disconnected by the
utility, proof that a meter, conduit or attachment disconnected by a utility
has been reconnected without the consent of the utility is prima facie evidence
that the person in possession or control of the meter, conduit or attachment at
the time of the reconnection has reconnected the meter, conduit or attachment
with intent to commit a theft offense.
   (c)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Tamper.” To interfere with, damage or bypass a utility meter,
conduit or attachment with the intent to impede the correct registration of a
meter or the proper functions of a conduit or attachment so as to reduce the
amount of utility service that is registered on the meter.
      (2)   “Utility.” Any electric light company, gas company, natural gas
company, pipe-line company, water-works company or heating or cooling company,
as defined in R.C. § 4905.03(C), (D), (E), (F), (G), or (H), its lessees,
trustees or receivers, or any similar utility owned or operated by a political
subdivision.
(R.C. § 4933.18)
   (d)   Each electric light company, gas company, natural gas company,
pipeline company, waterworks company or heating or cooling company, as defined
by R.C. § 4905.03(C), (D), (E), (F), (G), or (H), or its lessees, trustees or
receivers, and each similar utility owned or operated by a political
subdivision, shall notify its customers, on an annual basis, that tampering
with or bypassing a meter constitutes a theft offense that could result in the
imposition of criminal sanctions.
(R.C. § 4933.19)
§ 672.07 MISCONDUCT INVOLVING A PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM.
   (a)   As used in this section, “public transportation system” means a county
transit system operated in accordance with R.C. § 306.01 to 306.13, a regional
transit authority operated in accordance with R.C. § 306.30 to 306.71, or a
regional transit commission operated in accordance with R.C. § 306.80 to
306.90.
   (b)   No person shall evade the payment of the known fares of a public
transportation system.
   (c)   No person shall alter any transfer, pass, ticket or token of a public
transportation system with the purpose of evading the payment of fares or of
defrauding the system.
   (d)   No person shall do any of the following while in any facility or on
any vehicle of a public transportation system:
      (1)   Play sound equipment without the proper use of a private earphone;
      (2)   Smoke, eat or drink in any area where the activity is clearly
marked as being prohibited; or
      (3)   Expectorate upon a person, facility or vehicle.
   (e)   No person shall write, deface, draw or otherwise mark on any facility
or vehicle of a public transportation system.
   (f)   No person shall fail to comply with a lawful order of a public
transportation system police officer, and no person shall resist, obstruct or
abuse a public transportation police officer in the performance of the
officer’s duties.
   (g)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of
misconduct involving a public transportation system.
      (1)   A violation of division (b), (c) or (f) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   A violation of division (d) of this section is a minor misdemeanor
on a first offense. If a person previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of any division of this section or of a municipal
ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any division of this section, a
violation of division (d) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
      (3)   A violation of division (e) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
   (h)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 75% of each fine paid to
satisfy a sentence imposed for a violation of any of the provisions of this
section shall be deposited into the Treasury of the county and 25% shall be
deposited with the county transit board, regional transit authority or regional
transit commission that operates the public transportation system involved in
the violation, unless the Board of County Commissioners operates the public
transportation system, in which case 100% of each fine shall be deposited into
the Treasury of the county.
(R.C. § 2917.41)
§ 672.08 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF A VEHICLE; VEHICLE TRESPASS.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly use or operate an aircraft, motor vehicle,
motorcycle, motorboat or other motor-propelled vehicle without the consent of
the owner or person authorized to give consent.
   (b)   No person shall knowingly use or operate an aircraft, motor vehicle,
motorboat or other motor-propelled vehicle without the consent of the owner or
person authorized to give consent, and either remove it from this state or keep
possession of it for more than 48 hours.
   (c)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under this section:
      (1)   At the time of the alleged offense, the actor, though mistaken,
reasonably believed that he or she was authorized to use or operate the
property.
      (2)   At the time of the alleged offense, the actor reasonably believed
that the owner or person empowered to give consent would authorize the actor to
use or operate the property.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unauthorized use of a
vehicle.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (d)(1), a violation
of division (a) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled adult and if the victim
incurs a loss as a result of the violation, a violation of division (a) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (b) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.03)
Statutory reference:
   Theft offense involving motor vehicle, offender to pay towing and storage
fees, see R.C. § 2913.82
§ 672.09 PASSING BAD CHECKS.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Check.” Includes any form of debit from a demand deposit account,
including but not limited to any of the following:
         A.   A check, bill of exchange, draft, order of withdrawal, or similar
negotiable or non-negotiable instrument;
         B.   An electronic check, electronic transaction, debit card
transaction, check card transaction, substitute check, web check or any form of
automated clearing house transaction.
      (2)   “Issue a check.” Causing any form of debit from a demand deposit
account.
   (b)   No person, with purpose to defraud, shall issue or transfer or cause
to be issued or transferred a check or other negotiable instrument, knowing
that it will be dishonored or knowing that a person has ordered or will order
stop payment on the check or other negotiable instrument.
   (c)   For purposes of this section, a person who issues or transfers a check
or other negotiable instrument is presumed to know that it will be dishonored
if either of the following occurs:
      (1)   The drawer has no account with the drawee at the time of issue or
the stated date, whichever is later.
      (2)   The check or other negotiable instrument was properly refused
payment for insufficient funds upon presentment within 30 days after issue or
the stated date, whichever is later, and the liability of the drawer, indorser,
or any party who may be liable thereon is not discharged by payment or
satisfaction within ten days after receiving notice of dishonor.
   (d)   In determining the value of the payment for purposes of division (e)
of this section, the court may aggregate all checks and other negotiable
instruments that the offender issued or transferred or caused to be issued or
transferred in violation of division (b) of this section within a period of 180
consecutive days.
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of passing bad checks. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, passing bad checks is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the check or checks or other negotiable instrument or
instruments are issued or transferred to a single vendor or single other person
for the payment of $1,000 or more, or if the check or checks or other
negotiable instrument or instruments are issued or transferred to multiple
vendors or persons for the payment of $1,500 or more, passing bad checks is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.11)
§ 672.10 MISUSE OF CREDIT CARDS.
   (a)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Practice deception for the purpose of procuring the issuance of a
credit card, when a credit card is issued in actual reliance thereon;
      (2)   Knowingly buy or sell a credit card from or to a person other than
the issuer;
      (3)   As an officer, employee, or appointee of a political subdivision or
as a public servant as defined under R.C. § 2921.01, knowingly misuse a credit
card account held by a political subdivision.
   (b)   No person, with purpose to defraud, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Obtain control over a credit card as security for a debt;
      (2)   Obtain property or services by the use of a credit card, in one or
more transactions, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the card
has expired or been revoked, or was obtained, is retained or is being used in
violation of law;
      (3)   Furnish property or services upon presentation of a credit card,
knowing that the card is being used in violation of law;
      (4)   Represent or cause to be represented to the issuer of a credit card
that property or services have been furnished, knowing that the representation
is false.
   (c)   No person, with purpose to violate this section, shall receive,
possess, control or dispose of a credit card.
   (d)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of misuse of credit cards.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (d)(3) of this section, a
violation of division (a), (b)(1) or (c) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division or division (d)(3) of
this section, a violation of division (b)(2), (b)(3) or (b)(4) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the cumulative retail value of the
property and services involved in one or more violations of division (b)(2),
(b)(3) or (b)(4) of this section which violations involve one or more credit
card accounts and occur within a period of 90 consecutive days commencing on
the date of the first violation, is $1,000 or more, misuse of credit cards is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled
adult, and if the offense involves a violation of division (b)(1) or (b)(2) of
this section, misuse of credit cards is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.21)
§ 672.11 RECORDING CREDIT CARD, TELEPHONE OR SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBERS.
   (a)   No person shall record or cause to be recorded either of the
following:
      (1)   A credit card account number of the other party to a transaction,
when a check, bill of exchange or other draft is presented for payment; or
      (2)   The telephone number or Social Security account number of the other
party to a transaction, when payment is made by credit card charge agreement,
check, bill of exchange or other draft.
   (b)   Division (a) of this section does not apply to a transaction, if all
of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The credit card account number, Social Security account number or
telephone number is recorded for a legitimate business purpose, including
collection purposes.
      (2)   The other party to the transaction consents to the recording of the
credit card account number, Social Security account number or telephone number.
      (3)   The credit card account number, Social Security account number or
telephone number that is recorded during the course of the transaction is not
disclosed to any third party for any purposes other than collection purposes
and is not used to market goods or services unrelated to the goods or services
purchased in the transaction.
   (c)   Nothing in this section prohibits the recording of the number of a
credit card account when given in lieu of a deposit to secure payment in the
event of default, loss, damage or other occurrence, or requires a person to
accept a check presented for payment, if the other party to the transaction
refuses to consent to the recording of the number of the party’s Social
Security account or license to operate a motor vehicle. (R.C. § 1349.17)
   (d)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 1349.99)
§ 672.12 FORGING OR SELLING FORGED IDENTIFICATION CARDS.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly do either of the following:
      (1)   Forge an identification card.
      (2)   Sell or otherwise distribute a card that purports to be an
identification card, knowing it was forged.
   (b)   As used in this section, “identification card” means a card that
includes personal information or characteristics of an individual, a purpose of
which is to establish the identity of the bearer described on the card, whether
the words “identity”, “identification”, “identification card” or other similar
words appear on the card.
   (c)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of forging
identification cards or selling or distributing forged identification cards.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, forging identification cards or
selling or distributing forged identification cards is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of
division (a) of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, forging identification cards or selling or distributing
forged identification cards is a misdemeanor of the first degree and, in
addition, the court shall impose upon the offender a fine not less than $250.
      (2)   If the victim of a violation of this section is an elderly person,
R.C. § 2913.31(C)(2)(b) applies and the offense shall be prosecuted under R.C.
§ 2913.31.
(R.C. § 2913.31(B), (C)(2))
Statutory reference:
   Forgery, felony provisions, see R.C. § 2913.31(A), (C)(1)
   Forgery of originating address or other routing information in connection
with the transmission of an electronic mail advertisement, felony provisions,
see R.C. § 2307.64
§ 672.125 CRIMINAL SIMULATION.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to defraud, or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Make or alter any object so that it appears to have value because
of antiquity, rarity, curiosity, source or authorship, which it does not in
fact possess.
      (2)   Practice deception in making, retouching, editing or reproducing
any photograph, movie film, video tape, phonograph record or recording tape.
      (3)   Falsely or fraudulently make, simulate, forge, alter or counterfeit
any wrapper, label, stamp, cork or cap prescribed by the Liquor Control
Commission under R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303, falsely or fraudulently cause to
be made, simulated, forged, altered or counterfeited any wrapper, label, stamp,
cork or cap prescribed by the Liquor Control Commission under R.C. Chapters
4301 and 4303, or use more than once any wrapper, label, stamp, cork or cap
prescribed by the Liquor Control Commission under R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303.
      (4)   Offer, or possess with the purpose to offer, any object that the
person knows to have been simulated as provided in divisions (a)(1), (a)(2) or
(a)(3) of this section.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal simulation. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, criminal simulation is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the loss to the victim is $1,000 or more, criminal
simulation is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.32)
§ 672.13 MAKING OR USING SLUGS.
   (a)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Insert or deposit a slug in a coin machine, with purpose to
defraud;
      (2)   Make, possess or dispose of a slug, with purpose of enabling
another to defraud by inserting or depositing it in a coin machine.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making or using slugs, a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2913.33)
§ 672.14 PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE OF PURPOSE TO DEFRAUD.
   In a prosecution of a person for a theft offense that alleges that the
person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she was facilitating a
fraud, hired or rented an aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat,
sailboat, camper, trailer, horse, buggy or other property or equipment, kept or
operated any of the same that has been hired or rented, or engaged
accommodations at a hotel, motel, inn, campground or other hostelry, it is
prima facie evidence of purpose to defraud if the person did any of the
following:
   (a)   Used deception to induce the rental agency to furnish the person with
the aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat, sailboat, camper, trailer,
horse, buggy or other property or equipment, or used deception to induce the
hostelry to furnish the person with accommodations;
   (b)   Hired or rented any aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat,
sailboat, camper, trailer, horse, buggy or other property or equipment, or
engaged accommodations, knowing that he or she is without sufficient means to
pay the hire or rental;
   (c)   Absconded without paying the hire or rental;
   (d)   Knowingly failed to pay the hire or rental as required by the contract
of hire or rental, without reasonable excuse for the failure;
   (e)   Knowingly failed to return hired or rented property as required by the
contract of hire or rental, without reasonable excuse for the failure.
(R.C. § 2913.41)
§ 672.15 TAMPERING WITH RECORDS.
   (a)   No person, knowing that he or she has no privilege to do so, and with
purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she is facilitating a fraud, shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Falsify, destroy, remove, conceal, alter, deface or mutilate any
writing, computer software, data or record;
      (2)   Utter any writing or record, knowing it to have been tampered with
as provided in division (a)(1) of this section.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of tampering with records.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (b)(3) of this section, if the
offense does not involve data or computer software, tampering with records is
whichever of the following is applicable:
         A.   If division (b)(1)B. of this section does not apply, it is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         B.   If the writing or record is a will unrevoked at the time of the
offense, it is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (b)(3) of this section, if the
offense involves a violation of division (a) of this section involving data or
computer software, tampering with records is whichever of the following is
applicable:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in division (b)(2)B. of this
section, it is a misdemeanor of the first degree;
         B.   If the value of the data or computer software involved in the
offense or the loss to the victim is $1,000 or more or if the offense is
committed for the purpose of devising or executing a scheme to defraud or to
obtain property or services and the value of the property or services or the
loss to the victim is $7,500 or more, it is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the writing, data, computer software or record is kept by or
belongs to a local, state or federal governmental entity, it is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.42)
§ 672.16 SECURING WRITINGS BY DECEPTION.
   (a)   No person, by deception, shall cause another to execute any writing
that disposes of or encumbers property, or by which a pecuniary obligation is
incurred.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of securing writings by
deception. Except as otherwise provided in this division, securing writings by
deception is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the property or
the obligation involved is $1,000 or more, securing writings by deception is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate to state law. If the victim of the
offense is an elderly person, disabled adult, active duty service member, or
spouse of an active duty service member, securing writings by deception is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.43)
§ 672.17 PERSONATING AN OFFICER.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she is
facilitating a fraud, or with purpose to induce another to purchase property or
services, shall personate a law enforcement officer, or an inspector,
investigator or agent of any governmental agency.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of personating an officer, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2913.44)
§ 672.18 DEFRAUDING CREDITORS.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to defraud one or more of his or her
creditors, shall do any of the following
      (1)   Remove, conceal, destroy, encumber, convey or otherwise deal with
any of his or her property;
      (2)   Misrepresent or refuse to disclose to a fiduciary appointed to
administer or manage his or her affairs or estate, the existence, amount or
location of any of his or her property, or any other information regarding the
property which he or she is legally required to furnish to the fiduciary.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of defrauding creditors.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, defrauding creditors is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the property involved is
$1,000 or more, defrauding creditors is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.45)
§ 672.19 RESERVED.
§ 672.20 INSURANCE FRAUD.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Data.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01 and additionally
includes any other representation of information, knowledge, facts, concepts or
instructions that are being or have been prepared in a formalized manner.
      (2)   “Deceptive.” A statement, in whole or in part, would cause another
to be deceived because it contains a misleading representation, withholds
information, prevents the acquisition of information, or by any other conduct,
act or omission creates, confirms or perpetuates a false impression, including
but not limited to a false impression as to law, value, state of mind or other
objective or subjective fact.
      (3)   “Insurer.” Any person that is authorized to engage in the business
of insurance in this state under R.C. Title 39, the Ohio Fair Plan Underwriting
Association created under R.C. § 3929.43, any health insuring corporation, and
any legal entity that is self-insured and provides benefits to its employees or
members.
      (4)   “Policy.” A policy, certificate, contract or plan that is issued by
an insurer.
      (5)   “Statement.” Includes but is not limited to any notice, letter, or
memorandum; proof of loss; bill of lading; receipt for payment; invoice,
account or other financial statement; estimate of property damage; bill for
services; diagnosis or prognosis; prescription; hospital, medical or dental
chart or other record; x-ray, photograph, videotape or movie film; test result;
other evidence of loss, injury or expense; computer-generated document; and
data in any form.
   (b)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Present to, or cause to be presented to, an insurer any written or
oral statement that is part of, or in support of, an application for insurance,
a claim for payment pursuant to a policy, or a claim for any other benefit
pursuant to a policy, knowing that the statement, or any part of the statement,
is false or deceptive;
      (2)   Assist, aid, abet, solicit, procure or conspire with another to
prepare or make any written or oral statement that is intended to be presented
to an insurer as part of, or in support of, an application for insurance, a
claim for payment pursuant to a policy, or a claim for any other benefit
pursuant to a policy, knowing that the statement, or any part of the statement,
is false or deceptive.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of insurance fraud. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, insurance fraud is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the amount of the claim that is false or deceptive is $1,000
or more, insurance fraud is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
   (d)   This section shall not be construed to abrogate, waive or modify R.C.
§ 2317.02(A).
(R.C. § 2913.47)
§ 672.21 WORKERS’ COMPENSATION FRAUD.
   (a)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Receive workers’ compensation benefits to which the person is not
entitled;
      (2)   Make or present or cause to be made or presented a false or
misleading statement with the purpose to secure payment for goods or services
rendered under R.C. Chapter 4121, 4123, 4127 or 4131 or to secure workers’
compensation benefits;
      (3)   Alter, falsify, destroy, conceal or remove any record or document
that is necessary to fully establish the validity of any claim filed with, or
necessary to establish the nature and validity of all goods and services for
which reimbursement or payment was received or is requested from the Bureau of
Workers’ Compensation, or a self-insuring employer under R.C. Chapter 4121,
4123, 4127 or 4131;
      (4)   Enter into an agreement or conspiracy to defraud the Bureau of
Workers’ Compensation or a self-insuring employer by making or presenting or
causing to be made or presented a false claim for workers’ compensation
benefits;
      (5)   Make or present or cause to be made or presented a false statement
concerning manual codes, classification or employees, payroll, paid
compensation or number of personnel, when information of that nature is
necessary to determine the actual workers’ compensation premium or assessment
owed to the Bureau by an employer;
      (6)   Alter, forge or create a workers’ compensation certificate or
falsely show current or correct workers’ compensation coverage;
      (7)   Fail to secure or maintain workers’ compensation coverage as
required by R.C. Chapter 4123 with the intent to defraud the Bureau of Workers’
Compensation.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of workers’ compensation
fraud. Except as otherwise provided in this division, workers’ compensation
fraud is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of premiums and
assessments unpaid pursuant to actions described in division (a)(5), (a)(6) or
(a)(7) of this section, or goods, services, property or money stolen is $1,000
or more, workers’ compensation fraud is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (c)   Upon application of the governmental body that conducted the
investigation and prosecution of a violation of this section, the court shall
order the person who is convicted of the violation to pay the governmental body
its costs of investigating and prosecuting the case. These costs are in
addition to any other costs or penalty provided under federal, state or local
law.
   (d)   The remedies and penalties provided in this section are not exclusive
remedies and penalties and do not preclude the use of any other criminal or
civil remedy or penalty for any act that is in violation of this section.
   (e)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Claim.” Any attempt to cause the Bureau of Workers’ Compensation,
an independent third party with whom the administrator or an employer contracts
under R.C. § 4121.44, or a self-insuring employer to make payment or
reimbursement for workers’ compensation benefits.
      (2)   “Employer,” “employee,” and “self-insuring employer.” Have the same
meanings as in R.C. § 4123.01.
      (3)   “Employment.” Participating in any trade, occupation, business,
service or profession for substantial gainful remuneration.
      (4)   “False.” Wholly or partially untrue or deceptive.
      (5)   “Goods.” Includes but is not limited to medical supplies,
appliances, rehabilitative equipment and any other apparatus or furnishing
provided or used in the care, treatment or rehabilitation of a claimant for
workers’ compensation benefits.
      (6)   “Records.” Any medical, professional, financial or business record
relating to the treatment or care of any person, to goods or services provided
to any person, or to rates paid for goods or services provided to any person,
or any record that the administrator of workers’ compensation requires pursuant
to rule.
      (7)   “Remuneration.” Includes but is not limited to wages, commissions,
rebates and any other reward or consideration.
      (8)   “Services.” Includes but is not limited to any service provided by
any health care provider to a claimant for workers’ compensation benefits and
any and all services provided by the Bureau as part of workers’ compensation
insurance coverage.
      (9)   “Statement.” Includes but is not limited to any oral, written,
electronic, electronic impulse or magnetic communication notice, letter,
memorandum, receipt for payment, invoice, account, financial statement or bill
for services; a diagnosis, prognosis, prescription, hospital, medical or dental
chart or other record; and a computer generated document.
      (10)   “Workers’ compensation benefits.” Any compensation or benefits
payable under R.C. Chapter 4121, 4123, 4127 or 4131.
(R.C. § 2913.48)
§ 672.22 MEDICAID FRAUD.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Provider.” Any person who has signed a provider agreement with the
Department of Medicaid to provide goods or services pursuant to the Medicaid
program or any person who has signed an agreement with a party to such a
provider agreement under which the person agrees to provide goods or services
that are reimbursable under the Medicaid program.
      (2)   “Provider agreement.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5164.01.
      (3)   “Recipient.” Any individual who receives goods or services from a
provider under the Medicaid program.
      (4)   “Records.” Any medical, professional, financial or business records
relating to the treatment or care of any recipient, to goods or services
provided to any recipient, or to rates paid for goods or services provided to
any recipient, and any records that are required by the rules of the Medicaid
Director to be kept for the Medicaid program.
      (5)   “Statement or representation.” Any oral, written, electronic,
electronic impulse or magnetic communication that is used to identify an item
of goods or a service for which reimbursement may be made under the Medicaid
program or that states income and expense and is or may be used to determine a
rate of reimbursement under the Medicaid program.
   (b)   No person shall knowingly make or cause to be made a false or
misleading statement or representation for use in obtaining reimbursement from
the Medicaid program.
   (c)   No person, with purpose to commit fraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Contrary to the terms of the person’s provider agreement, charge,
solicit, accept or receive for goods or services that the person provides under
the Medicaid program any property, money or other consideration in addition to
the amount of reimbursement under the Medicaid program and the person’s
provider agreement for the goods or services and any cost-sharing expenses
authorized by R.C. § 5162.20 or rules adopted by the Medicaid Director
regarding the Medicaid program.
      (2)   Solicit, offer or receive any remuneration, other than any cost-
sharing expenses authorized by R.C. § 5162.20 or rules adopted by the Medicaid
Director regarding the Medicaid program, in cash or in kind, including but not
limited to a kickback or rebate, in connection with the furnishing of goods or
services for which whole or partial reimbursement is or may be made under the
Medicaid program.
   (d)   No person, having submitted a claim for or provided goods or services
under the Medicaid program, shall do either of the following for a period of at
least six years after a reimbursement pursuant to that claim, or a
reimbursement for those goods or services, is received under the Medicaid
program:
      (1)   Knowingly alter, falsify, destroy, conceal or remove any records
that are necessary to fully disclose the nature of all goods or services for
which the claim was submitted, or for which reimbursement was received, by the
person; or
      (2)   Knowingly alter, falsify, destroy, conceal or remove any records
that are necessary to disclose fully all income and expenditures upon which
rates of reimbursements were based for the person.
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of Medicaid fraud. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, Medicaid fraud is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the value of the property, services or funds obtained in
violation of this section is $1,000 or more, Medicaid fraud is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (f)   Upon application of the governmental agency, office or other entity
that conducted the investigation and prosecution in a case under this section,
the court shall order any person who is convicted of a violation of this
section for receiving any reimbursement for furnishing goods or services under
the Medicaid program to which the person is not entitled to pay to the
applicant its cost of investigating and prosecuting the case. The costs of
investigation and prosecution that a defendant is ordered to pay pursuant to
this division shall be in addition to any other penalties for the receipt of
that reimbursement that are provided in this section, R.C. § 2913.40 or
5164.35, or any other provision of law.
   (g)   The provisions of this section are not intended to be exclusive
remedies and do not preclude the use of any other criminal or civil remedy for
any act that is in violation of this section.
(R.C. § 2913.40)
   (h)   Medicaid eligibility fraud.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following in an application
for enrollment in the Medicaid program or in a document that requires a
disclosure of assets for the purpose of determining eligibility for the
Medicaid program:
         A.   Make or cause to be made a false or misleading statement;
         B.   Conceal an interest in property;
         C.   1.   Except as provided in division (h)(1)C.2. of this section,
fail to disclose a transfer of property that occurred during the period
beginning 36 months before submission of the application or document and ending
on the date the application or document was submitted;
            2.   Fail to disclose a transfer of property that occurred during
the period beginning 60 months before submission of the application or document
and ending on the date the application or document was submitted and that was
made to an irrevocable trust a portion of which is not distributable to the
applicant for or recipient of Medicaid or to a revocable trust.
      (2)   A.   Whoever violates this division (h) is guilty of Medicaid
eligibility fraud. Except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation
of this division (h) is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the
Medicaid services paid as a result of the violation is $1,000 or more, a
violation of this division (h) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
         B.   In addition to imposing a sentence under division (h)(2)A. of
this section, the court shall order that a person who is guilty of Medicaid
eligibility fraud make restitution in the full amount of any Medicaid services
paid on behalf of an applicant for or recipient of Medicaid for which the
applicant or recipient was not eligible, plus interest at the rate applicable
to judgments on unreimbursed amounts from the date on which the Medicaid
services were paid to the date on which restitution is made.
         C.   The remedies and penalties provided in this division (h) are not
exclusive and do not preclude the use of any other criminal or civil remedy for
any act that is in violation of this division (h).
      (3)   This division (h) does not apply to a person who fully disclosed in
an application for Medicaid or in a document that requires a disclosure of
assets for the purpose of determining eligibility for Medicaid all of the
interests in property of the applicant for or recipient of Medicaid, all
transfers of property by the applicant for or recipient of Medicaid, and the
circumstances of all those transfers.
      (4)   Any amounts of Medicaid services recovered as restitution under
this division (h) and any interest on those amounts shall be credited to the
General Revenue Fund, and any applicable federal share shall be returned to the
appropriate agency or department of the United States.
      (5)   For the purpose of this division (h), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         A.   “Medicaid services.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5164.01.
         B.   “Property.”Any real or personal property or other asset in which
a person has any legal title or interest.
(R.C. § 2913.401)
§ 672.23 IDENTITY THEFT.
   Editor’s note: Identity Theft is a felony and shall be prosecuted under
state law.
§ 672.24 DIMINISHING OR INTERFERING WITH FORFEITABLE PROPERTY.
   (a)   No person shall destroy, damage, remove or transfer property that is
subject to forfeiture or otherwise take any action in regard to property that
is subject to forfeiture with purpose to do any of the following:
      (1)   Prevent or impair the state’s or political subdivision’s lawful
authority to take the property into its custody or control under R.C. Chapter
2981 or to continue holding the property under its lawful custody or control;
      (2)   Impair or defeat the court’s continuing jurisdiction over the
person and property;
      (3)   Devalue property that the person knows, or has reasonable cause to
believe, is subject to forfeiture proceedings under R.C. Chapter 2981.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interference with or
diminishing forfeitable property. Except as otherwise provided in this division
(b), interference with or diminishing forfeitable property is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the value of the property is $1,000 or more, interference
with or diminishing forfeitable property is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2981.07)
§ 672.25 MOTION PICTURE PIRACY.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Audiovisual recording function” means the capability of a device
to record or transmit a motion picture or any part of a motion picture by means
of any technology existing on, or developed after, March 9, 2004.
      (2)   “Facility” means a movie theater.
   (b)   No person, without the written consent of the owner or lessee of the
facility and of the licensor of the motion picture, shall knowingly operate an
audiovisual recording function of a device in a facility in which the motion
picture is being shown.
   (c)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of motion
picture piracy, a misdemeanor of the first degree on the first offense and a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
   (d)   This section does not prohibit or restrict a lawfully authorized
investigative, law enforcement, protective or intelligence gathering employee
or agent of the government of this state or a political subdivision of this
state, or of the federal government, when acting in an official capacity, from
operating an audiovisual recording function of a device in any facility in
which a motion picture is being shown.
   (e)   Division (b) of this section does not limit or affect the application
of any other prohibition in this code or the Ohio Revised Code. Any act that is
a violation of both division (b) of this section and another provision of this
code or the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under this section, under the
other provision of this code or the Ohio Revised Code, or under both this
section and the other provision of this code or the Ohio Revised Code.
(R.C. § 2913.07)
CHAPTER 678: WEAPONS AND EXPLOSIVES
Section
678.01   Definitions
678.02   Carrying concealed weapons
678.025   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention
678.03   Using weapons while intoxicated
678.04   Improperly handling firearms in a motor vehicle
678.05   License or permit to possess dangerous ordnance
678.06   Failure to secure dangerous ordnance
678.07   Unlawful transactions in weapons
678.08   Reserved
678.085   Underage purchase of a firearm or handgun
678.09   Pointing and discharging firearms and other weapons
678.095   Discharge of a firearm on or near prohibited premises
678.10   Fireworks
678.11   Endangering aircraft and airport operations
678.12   Possessing criminal tools
678.13   Possession of an object indistinguishable from a firearm in a school
safety zone
678.14   Concealed handgun licenses: possession of a revoked or suspended
license; additional restrictions; posting of signs prohibiting possession
678.15   Defaced firearms
Cross-reference:
   Arson, see §
642.06
   Definitions generally, see §
606.01
   Hunting prohibited, see §
618.12
   Posting firearm warning signs, see §
612.06
   Reporting gunshot wounds, see §
608.04
   Vehicles transporting explosives, see §
440.04
Statutory reference:
   Prohibiting sales of firearms and explosives in riot areas, see R.C. §
3761.16
§ 678.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (a)   “Active duty.” Has the same meaning as defined in 10 U.S.C. § 101.
   (b)   “Alien registration number.” The number issued by the United States
Citizenship and Immigration Services Agency that is located on the alien’s
permanent resident card and may also be commonly referred to as the “USCIS
number” or the “alien number”.
   (c)   “Automatic firearm.” Any firearm designed or specially adapted to fire
a succession of cartridges with a single function of the trigger.
   (d)   “Ballistic knife.” A knife with a detachable blade that is propelled
by a spring-operated mechanism.
   (e)   “Concealed handgun license” or “license to carry a concealed handgun.”
      (1)   Means, subject to division (2) of this definition, a license or
temporary emergency license to carry a concealed handgun issued under R.C. §
2923.125 or 2923.1213 or a license to carry a concealed handgun issued by
another state with which the Attorney General has entered into a reciprocity
agreement under R.C. § 109.69.
      (2)   A reference in any provision of this Code to a concealed handgun
license issued under R.C. § 2923.125 or a license to carry a concealed handgun
issued under R.C. § 2923.125 means only a license of the type that is specified
in that section. A reference in any provision of this Code to a concealed
handgun license issued under R.C. § 2923.1213, a license to carry a concealed
handgun issued under R.C. § 2923.1213, or a license to carry a concealed
handgun on a temporary emergency basis means only a license of the type that is
specified in R.C. § 2923.1213. A reference in any provision of this Code to a
concealed handgun license issued by another state or a license to carry a
concealed handgun issued by another state means only a license issued by
another state with which the Attorney General has entered into a reciprocity
agreement under R.C. § 109.69.
   (f)   “Dangerous ordnance.”
      (1)   Any of the following, except as provided in division (2) of this
definition:
         A.   Any automatic or sawed-off firearm, zip-gun or ballistic knife.
         B.   Any explosive device or incendiary device.
         C.   Nitroglycerin, nitrocellulose, nitrostarch, PETN, cyclonite, TNT,
picric acid, and other high explosives; amatol, tritonal, tetrytol, pentolite,
pecretol, cyclotol and other high explosive compositions; plastic explosives;
dynamite, blasting gelatin, gelatin dynamite, sensitized ammonium nitrate,
liquid-oxygen blasting explosives, blasting powder and other blasting agents;
and any other explosive substance having sufficient brisance or power to be
particularly suitable for use as a military explosive, or for use in mining,
quarrying, excavating or demolitions.
         D.   Any firearm, rocket launcher, mortar, artillery piece, grenade,
mine, bomb, torpedo or similar weapon, designed and manufactured for military
purposes, and the ammunition for that weapon.
         E.   Any firearm muffler or suppressor.
         F.   Any combination of parts that is intended by the owner for use in
converting any firearm or other device into a dangerous ordnance.
      (2)   “Dangerous ordnance” does not include any of the following:
         A.   Any firearm, including a military weapon and the ammunition for
that weapon, and regardless of its actual age, that employs a percussion cap or
other obsolete ignition system, or that is designed and safe for use only with
black powder.
         B.   Any pistol, rifle or shotgun, designed or suitable for sporting
purposes, including a military weapon as issued or as modified, and the
ammunition for that weapon, unless the firearm is an automatic or sawed-off
firearm.
         C.   Any cannon or other artillery piece that, regardless of its
actual age, is of a type in accepted use prior to 1887, has no mechanical,
hydraulic, pneumatic or other system for absorbing recoil and returning the
tube into battery without displacing the carriage, and is designed and safe for
use only with black powder.
         D.   Black powder, priming quills and percussion caps possessed and
lawfully used to fire a cannon of a type defined in division (2)C. of this
definition during displays, celebrations, organized matches or shoots, and
target practice, and smokeless and black powder, primers and percussion caps
possessed and lawfully used as a propellant or ignition device in small-arms or
small- arms ammunition.
         E.   Dangerous ordnance that is inoperable or inert and cannot readily
be rendered operable or activated, and that is kept as a trophy, souvenir,
curio or museum piece.
         F.   Any device that is expressly excepted from the definition of a
destructive device pursuant to the “Gun Control Act” of 1968, 18 U.S.C. § 921
(a)(4), as amended, and regulations issued under that Act.
         G.   Any firearm with an overall length of at least 26 inches that is
approved for sale by the Federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and
Explosives under the “Gun Control Act of 1968”, 82 Stat. 1213, 18 U.S.C. § 921
(a)(3), but that is found by the Bureau not to be regulated under the “National
Firearms Act”, 68A Stat. 725 (1934), 26 U.S.C. § 5845(a).
   (g)   “Deadly weapon.” Any instrument, device or thing capable of inflicting
death, and designed or specially adapted for use as a weapon, or possessed,
carried or used as a weapon.
   (h)   “Explosive.” Any chemical compound, mixture or device, the primary or
common purpose of which is to function by explosion. “Explosive” includes all
materials that have been classified as division 1.1, division 1.2, division 1.3
or division 1.4 explosives by the United States Department of Transportation in
its regulations and includes but is not limited to dynamite, black powder,
pellet powders, initiating explosives, blasting caps, electric blasting caps,
safety fuses, fuse igniters, squibs, cordeau detonant fuses, instantaneous
fuses, and igniter cords and igniters. “Explosives” does not include
“fireworks”, as defined in R.C. § 3743.01, or any substance or material
otherwise meeting the definition of “explosive” set forth in this section that
is manufactured, sold, possessed, transported, stored or used in any activity
described in R.C. § 3743.80, provided the activity is conducted in accordance
with all applicable laws, rules and regulations, including but not limited to
the provisions of R.C. § 3743.80 and the rules of the Fire Marshal adopted
pursuant to R.C. § 3737.82.
   (i)   “Explosive device.” Any device designed or specially adapted to cause
physical harm to persons or property by means of an explosion, and consisting
of an explosive substance or agency and a means to detonate it. “Explosive
device” includes without limitation any bomb, any explosive demolition device,
any blasting cap or detonator containing an explosive charge and any pressure
vessel that has been knowingly tampered with or arranged so as to explode.
   (j)   “Firearm.”
      (1)   Any deadly weapon capable of expelling or propelling one or more
projectiles by the action of an explosive or combustible propellant. “Firearm”
includes an unloaded firearm, and any firearm that is inoperable but that can
readily be rendered operable.
      (2)   When determining whether a firearm is capable of expelling or
propelling one or more projectiles by the action of an explosive or combustible
propellant, the trier of fact may rely upon circumstantial evidence, including
but not limited to the representations and actions of the individual exercising
control over the firearm.
   (k)   “Handgun.” Any of the following:
      (1)   Any firearm that has a short stock and is designed to be held and
fired by the use of a single hand;
      (2)   Any combination of parts from which a firearm of a type described
in division (1) of this definition can be assembled.
   (l)   “Incendiary device.” Any firebomb, and any device designed or
specially adapted to cause physical harm to persons or property by means of
fire, and consisting of an incendiary substance or agent and a means to ignite
it.
   (m)   “Misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding one
year.” The phrase does not include any of the following:
      (1)   Any federal or state offense pertaining to antitrust violations,
unfair trade practices, restraints of trade, or other similar offenses relating
to the regulation of business practices;
      (2)   Any misdemeanor offense punishable by a term of imprisonment of two
years or less.
   (n)   “Sawed-off firearm.” A shotgun with a barrel less than 18 inches long,
or a rifle with a barrel less than 16 inches long, or a shotgun or rifle less
than 26 inches long overall. “Sawed-off firearm” does not include any firearm
with an overall length of at least 26 inches that is approved for sale by the
Federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives under the “Gun
Control Act of 1968”, 82 Stat. 1213, 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)(3), but that is found
by the Bureau not to be regulated under the “National Firearms Act”, 68A Stat.
725 (1934), 26 U.S.C. § 5845(a).
   (o)   “Semi-automatic firearm.” Any firearm designed or specially adapted to
fire a single cartridge and automatically chamber a succeeding cartridge ready
to fire, with a single function of the trigger.
   (p)   “Valid concealed handgun license” or “valid license to carry a
concealed handgun.” A concealed handgun license that is currently valid, that
is not under a suspension under R.C. § 2923.128(A)(1), under R.C. § 2923.1213,
or under a suspension provision of the state other than this state in which the
license was issued, and that has not been revoked under R.C. § 2923.128(B)(1),
under R.C. § 2923.1213, or under a revocation provision of the state other than
this state in which the license was issued.
   (q)   “Zip-gun.” Any of the following:
      (1)   Any firearm of crude and extemporized manufacture.
      (2)   Any device, including without limitation a starter’s pistol, not
designed as a firearm, but that is specially adapted for use as a firearm.
      (3)   Any industrial tool, signalling device or safety device, not
designed as a firearm, but that as designed is capable of use as such, when
possessed, carried or used as a firearm.
(R.C. § 2923.11)
§ 678.02 CARRYING CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly carry or have, concealed on the person’s
person or concealed ready at hand, any of the following:
      (1)   A deadly weapon other than a handgun;
      (2)   A handgun other than a dangerous ordnance;
      (3)   A dangerous ordnance.
   (b)   No person who has been issued a concealed handgun license shall do any
of the following:
      (1)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and is
carrying a concealed handgun, before or at the time a law enforcement officer
asks if the person is carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to disclose
that the person then is carrying a concealed handgun, provided that it is not a
violation of this division if the person fails to disclose that fact to an
officer during the stop and the person already has notified another officer of
that fact during the same stop;
      (2)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and is
carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to keep the person’s hands in
plain sight at any time after any law enforcement officer begins approaching
the person while stopped and before the law enforcement officer leaves, unless
the failure is pursuant to and in accordance with directions given by a law
enforcement officer;
      (3)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose, if the
person is carrying a concealed handgun, and if the person is approached by any
law enforcement officer while stopped, knowingly remove or attempt to remove
the loaded handgun from the holster, pocket or other place in which the person
is carrying it, knowingly grasp or hold the loaded handgun, or knowingly have
contact with the loaded handgun by touching it with the person’s hands or
fingers at any time after the law enforcement officer begins approaching and
before the law enforcement officer leaves, unless the person removes, attempts
to remove, grasps, holds or has contact with the loaded handgun pursuant to and
in accordance with directions given by the law enforcement officer;
      (4)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and is
carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly disregard or fail to comply with any
lawful order of any law enforcement officer given while the person is stopped,
including but not limited to a specific order to the person to keep the
person’s hands in plain sight.
   (c)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         A.   An officer, agent or employee of this or any other state or the
United States, or to a law enforcement officer, who is authorized to carry
concealed weapons or dangerous ordnance or is authorized to carry handguns and
is acting within the scope of the officer’s, agent’s or employee’s duties;
         B.   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry concealed weapons or dangerous ordnance or is authorized to carry
handguns, and who is subject to and in compliance with the requirements of R.C.
§ 109.801, unless the appointing authority of the person has expressly
specified that the exemption provided in this division (c)(1)B. does not apply
to the person.;
         C.   A person’s transportation or storage of a firearm, other than a
firearm described in R.C. § 2923.11(G) to (M), in a motor vehicle for any
lawful purpose if the firearm is not on the actor’s person;
         D.   A person’s storage or possession of a firearm, other than a
firearm described in R.C. § 2923.11(G) to (M), in the actor’s own home for any
lawful purpose.
      (2)   Division (a)(2) of this section does not apply to any person who
has been issued a concealed handgun license that is valid at the time of the
alleged carrying or possession of a handgun or who, at the time of the alleged
carrying or possession of a handgun, is an active duty member of the armed
forces of the United States and is carrying a valid military identification
card and documentation of successful completion of firearms training that meets
or exceeds the training requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), unless
the person knowingly is in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
   (d)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (a)(1) of this
section of carrying or having control of a weapon other than a handgun and
other than a dangerous ordnance, that the actor was not otherwise prohibited by
law from having the weapon, and that any of the following applies:
      (1)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for
defensive purposes, while the actor was engaged in or was going to or from the
actor’s lawful business or occupation, which business or occupation was of a
character or was necessarily carried on in a manner or at a time or place as to
render the actor particularly susceptible to criminal attack, such as would
justify a prudent person in going armed.
      (2)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for
defensive purposes, while the actor was engaged in a lawful activity and had
reasonable cause to fear a criminal attack upon the actor, a member of the
actor’s family, or the actor’s home, such as would justify a prudent person in
going armed.
      (3)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for any
lawful purpose and while in the actor’s own home.
   (e)   (1)   No person who is charged with a violation of this section shall
be required to obtain a concealed handgun license as a condition for the
dismissal of the charge.
      (2)   If a person is convicted of, was convicted of, pleads guilty to, or
has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (b)(1) of this section as it
existed prior to June 13, 2022, the person may file an application under R.C. §
2953.37 requesting the expungement of the record of conviction.
   (f)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of carrying concealed
weapons. Except as otherwise provided in this division or divisions (f)(2), (f)
(6), and (f)(7) of this section, carrying concealed weapons in violation of
division (a) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Except as
otherwise provided in this division or divisions (f)(2), (f)(6), and (f)(7) of
this section, if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of
this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance
or of any offense of violence, if the weapon involved is a firearm that is
either loaded or for which the offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the
weapon involved is dangerous ordnance, carrying concealed weapons in violation
of division (a) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law. Except as otherwise provided in divisions (f)(2), (f)(6), and (f)(7)
of this section, if the offense is committed aboard an aircraft, or with
purpose to carry a concealed weapon aboard an aircraft, regardless of the
weapon involved, carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (a) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A person shall not be arrested for a violation of division (a)(2)
of this section solely because the person does not promptly produce a valid
concealed handgun license. If a person is arrested for a violation of division
(a)(2) of this section and is convicted of or pleads guilty to the violation,
the offender shall be punished as follows:
         A.   The offender shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor if both of
the following apply:
            1.   Within ten days after the arrest, the offender presents a
concealed handgun license, which license was valid at the time of the arrest to
the law enforcement agency that employs the arresting officer.
            2.   At the time of the arrest, the offender was not knowingly in a
place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
         B.   The offender shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined
$500 if all of the following apply:
            1.   The offender previously had been issued a concealed handgun
license, and that license expired within the two years immediately preceding
the arrest.
            2.   Within 45 days after the arrest, the offender presents a
concealed handgun license to the law enforcement agency that employed the
arresting officer, and the offender waives in writing the offender’s right to a
speedy trial on the charge of the violation that is provided in R.C. § 2945.71.
            3.   At the time of the commission of the offense, the offender was
not knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
         C.   If divisions (f)(2)A. and (f)(2)B. and (f)(6) of this section do
not apply, the offender shall be punished under division (f)(1) or (f)(7) of
this section.
      (3)   Carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (b)(1) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (4)   Carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (b)(2) or (b)
(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division
(b)(2) or (b)(4) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. In
addition to any other penalty or sanction imposed for a misdemeanor violation
of division (b)(2) or (b)(4) of this section, the offender’s concealed handgun
license shall be suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2).
      (5)   Carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (b)(3) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (6)   If a person being arrested for a violation of division (a)(2) of
this section is an active duty m ember of the armed forces of the United States
and is carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of
successful completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training
requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), and if at the time of the
violation the person was not knowingly in a place described in R.C. 2923.126
(B), the officer shall not arrest the person for a violation of that division.
If the person is not able to promptly produce a valid military identification
card and documentation of successful completion of firearms training that meets
or exceeds the training requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1) and if
the person is not in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B), the officer shall
issue a citation and the offender shall be assessed a civil penalty of not more
than $500. The citation shall be automatically dismissed and the civil penalty
shall not be assessed if both of the following apply:
         A.   Within ten days after the issuance of the citation, the offender
presents a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), which were both valid at the time of the
issuance of the citation to the law enforcement agency that employs the citing
officer.
         B.   At the time of the citation, the offender was not knowingly in a
place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
      (7)   If a person being arrested for a violation of division (a)(2) of
this section is knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B)(5) and is
not authorized to carry a handgun or have a handgun concealed on the person’s
person or concealed ready at hand under that division, the penalty shall be as
follows:
         A.   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person
produces a valid concealed handgun license within ten days after the arrest and
has not previously been convicted or pleaded guilty to a violation of division
(a)(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the person is guilty of a minor misdemeanor;
         B.   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person has
previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (a)
(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
         C.   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person has
previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division
(a)(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree;
         D.   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person has
previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of
division (a)(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, or convicted of or pleaded guilty to any offense of
violence, if the weapon involved is a firearm that is either loaded or for
which the offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the weapon involved is a
dangerous ordnance, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (g)   If a law enforcement officer stops a person to question the person
regarding a possible violation of this section, for a traffic stop, or for any
other law enforcement purpose, if the person surrenders a firearm to the
officer, either voluntarily or pursuant to a request or demand of the officer,
and if the officer does not charge the person with a violation of this section
or arrest the person for any offense, the person is not otherwise prohibited by
law from possessing the firearm, and the firearm is not contraband, the officer
shall return the firearm to the person at the termination of the stop. If a
court orders a law enforcement officer to return a firearm to a person pursuant
to the requirement set forth in this division, R.C. § 2923.163(B) applies.
   (h)   For purposes of this section, "deadly weapon" or "weapon" does not
include any knife, razor, or cutting instrument if the instrument was not used
as a weapon.
(R.C. § 2923.12)
Statutory reference:
   Carrying concealed handguns, licensing through County Sheriff, see R.C. §§
2923.124 et seq.
   Conveyance or possession of deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance on school
premises, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.122
   Conveyance, possession, or control of deadly weapon or dangerous ordinance
in a courthouse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.123
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, felony offense, see R.C.
§ 2923.131
   Possession of firearm in liquor permit premises, felony offense, see R.C. §
2923.121
§ 678.025 POSSESSION OF DEADLY WEAPON WHILE UNDER DETENTION.
   (a)   “Detention” and “detention facility” have the same meanings as in R.C.
§ 2921.01.
   (b)   No person under detention at a detention facility shall possess a
deadly weapon.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possession of a deadly
weapon while under detention.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(2) of this section,
possession of a deadly weapon while under detention is a felony to be
prosecuted under state law.
      (2)   If the offender, at the time of the commission of the offense, was
under detention as an alleged or adjudicated delinquent child or unruly child
and if at the time the offender commits the act for which the offender was
under detention it would not be a felony if committed by an adult, possession
of a deadly weapon while under detention is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2923.131)
Statutory reference:
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, felony offenses, see R.C.
§ 2923.131
§ 678.03 USING WEAPONS WHILE INTOXICATED.
   (a)   No person, while under the influence of alcohol or any drug of abuse,
shall carry or use any firearm or dangerous ordnance.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of using weapons while
intoxicated, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2923.15)
§ 678.04 IMPROPERLY HANDLING FIREARMS IN A MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly discharge a firearm while in or on a motor
vehicle.
   (b)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a loaded firearm in a
motor vehicle in such a manner that the firearm is accessible to the operator
or any passenger without leaving the vehicle.
   (c)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a firearm in a motor
vehicle, unless the person may lawfully possess that firearm under applicable
law of this state or the United States, the firearm is unloaded, and the
firearm is carried in one of the following ways:
      (1)   In a closed package, box or case.
      (2)   In a compartment that can be reached only by leaving the vehicle.
      (3)   In plain sight and secured in a rack or holder made for the
purpose.
      (4)   If the firearm is at least 24 inches in overall length as measured
from the muzzle to the part of the stock furthest from the muzzle and if the
barrel is at least 18 inches in length, either in plain sight with the action
open or the weapon stripped, or, if the firearm is of a type on which the
action will not stay open or which cannot easily be stripped, in plain sight.
   (d)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a loaded handgun in a
motor vehicle if, at the time of that transportation or possession, any of the
following applies:
      (1)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a
combination of them.
      (2)   The person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine
contains a concentration of alcohol, a listed controlled substance, or a listed
metabolite of a controlled substance prohibited for persons operating a
vehicle, as specified in R.C. § 4511.19(A), regardless of whether the person at
the time of the transportation or possession as described in this division is
the operator of or a passenger in the motor vehicle.
   (e)   No person who has been issued a concealed handgun license or who is an
active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is carrying a
valid military identification card and documentation of successful completion
of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements described
in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), who is the driver or an occupant of a motor vehicle
that is stopped as a result of a traffic stop or a stop for another law
enforcement purpose or is the driver or an occupant of a commercial motor
vehicle that is stopped by an employee of the motor carrier enforcement unit
for the purposes defined in R.C. § 5503.34, and who is transporting or has a
loaded handgun in the motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle in any manner,
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Before or at the time a law enforcement officer asks if the person
is carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to disclose that the person
then possesses or has a loaded handgun in the motor vehicle, provided that it
is not a violation of this division if the person fails to disclose that fact
to an officer during the stop and the person already has notified another
officer of that fact during the same stop;
      (2)   Before or at the time an employee of the motor carrier enforcement
unit asks if the person is carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to
disclose that the person then possesses or has a loaded handgun in the
commercial motor vehicle, provided that it is not a violation of this division
if the person fails to disclose that fact to an employee of the unit during the
stop and the person already has notified another employee of the unit of that
fact during the same stop;
      (3)   Knowingly fail to remain in the motor vehicle while stopped, or
knowingly fail to keep the person’s hands in plain sight at any time after any
law enforcement officer begins approaching the person while stopped and before
the law enforcement officer leaves, unless the failure is pursuant to and in
accordance with directions given by a law enforcement officer;
      (4)   Knowingly have contact with the loaded handgun by touching it with
the person’s hands or fingers in the motor vehicle at any time after the law
enforcement officer begins approaching and before the law enforcement officer
leaves, unless the person has contact with the loaded handgun pursuant to and
in accordance with directions given by the law enforcement officer.
      (5)   Knowingly disregard or fail to comply with any lawful order of any
law enforcement officer given while the motor vehicle is stopped, including but
not limited to a specific order to the person to keep the person’s hands in
plain sight.
   (f)   (1)   Divisions (a), (b), (c) and (e) of this section do not apply to
any of the following:
         A.   An officer, agent or employee of this or any other state or the
United States, or a law enforcement officer, when authorized to carry or have
loaded or accessible firearms in motor vehicles and acting within the scope of
the officer’s, agent’s or employee’s duties;
         B.   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry or have loaded or accessible firearms in motor vehicles, and who is
subject to and in compliance with the requirements of R.C. § 109.801, unless
the appointing authority of the person has expressly specified that the
exemption provided in this division (f)(1)B. does not apply to the person.
      (2)   Division (a) of this section does not apply to a person if all of
the following circumstances apply:
         A.   The person discharges a firearm from a motor vehicle at a coyote
or groundhog, the discharge is not during the deer gun hunting season as set by
the Chief of the Division of Wildlife of the Department of Natural Resources,
and the discharge at the coyote or groundhog, but for the operation of this
section, is lawful.
         B.   The motor vehicle from which the person discharges the firearm is
on real property that is located in an unincorporated area of a township and
that is either zoned for agriculture or is used for agriculture.
         C.   The person owns the real property described in division (f)(2)B.
of this section, is the spouse or a child of another person who owns that real
property, is a tenant of another person who owns that real property, or is the
spouse or a child of a tenant of another person who owns that real property.
         D.   The person does not discharge the firearm in any of the following
manners:
            1.   While under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or
alcohol and a drug of abuse;
            2.   In the direction of a street, highway or other public or
private property used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking;
            3.   At or into an occupied structure that is a permanent or
temporary habitation;
            4.   In the commission of any violation of law, including but not
limited to a felony that includes, as an essential element, purposely or
knowingly causing or attempting to cause the death of or physical harm to
another and that was committed by discharging a firearm from a motor vehicle.
      (3)   Division (a) of this section does not apply to a person if all of
the following apply:
         A.   The person possesses a valid all-purpose vehicle permit issued
under R.C. § 1533.103 by the Chief of the Division of Wildlife.
         B.   The person discharges a firearm at a wild quadruped or game bird
as defined in R.C. § 1531.01 during the open hunting season for the applicable
wild quadruped or game bird.
         C.   The person discharges a firearm from a stationary all-purpose
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 1531.01 from private or publicly owned lands or
from a motor vehicle that is parked on a road that is owned or administered by
the Division of Wildlife.
         D.   The person does not discharge the firearm in any of the following
manners:
            1.   While under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or
alcohol and a drug of abuse;
            2.   In the direction of a street, a highway or other public or
private property that is used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking;
            3.   At or into an occupied structure that is a permanent or
temporary habitation;
            4.   In the commission of any violation of law, including but not
limited to a felony that includes, as an essential element, purposely or
knowingly causing or attempting to cause the death of or physical harm to
another and that was committed by discharging a firearm from a motor vehicle.
      (4)   Divisions (b) and (c) of this section do not apply to a person if
all of the following circumstances apply:
         A.   At the time of the alleged violation of either of those
divisions, the person is the operator of or a passenger in a motor vehicle.
         B.   The motor vehicle is on real property that is located in an
unincorporated area of a township and that is either zoned for agriculture or
is used for agriculture.
         C.   The person owns the real property described in division (f)(4)B.
of this section, is the spouse or a child of another person who owns that real
property, is a tenant of another person who owns that real property, or is the
spouse or a child of a tenant of another person who owns that real property.
         D.   The person, prior to arriving at the real property described in
division (f)(4)B. of this section, did not transport or possess a firearm in
the motor vehicle in a manner prohibited by division (b) or (c) of this section
while the motor vehicle was being operated on a street, highway or other public
or private property used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking.
      (5)   Divisions (b) and (c) of this section do not apply to a person who
transports or possesses a handgun in a motor vehicle if, at the time of that
transportation or possession, both of the following apply:
         A.   The person transporting or possessing the handgun has been issued
a concealed handgun license that is valid at the time in question or the person
is an active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is
carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1).
         B.   The person transporting or possessing the handgun is not
knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
      (6)   Divisions (b) and (c) of this section do not apply to a person if
all of the following apply:
         A.   The person possesses a valid all-purpose vehicle permit issued
under R.C. § 1533.103 by the Chief of the Division of Wildlife.
         B.   The person is on or in an all-purpose vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 1531.01 or a motor vehicle during the open hunting season for a wild
quadruped or game bird.
         C.   The person is on or in an all-purpose vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 1531.01 on private or publicly owned lands or on or in a motor vehicle that
is parked on a road that is owned or administered by the Division of Wildlife.
   (g)   (1)   The affirmative defenses authorized in R.C. § 2923.12(D)(1) and
(D)(2) are affirmative defenses to a charge under division (b) or (c) of this
section that involves a firearm other than a handgun.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (b) or (c)
of this section of improperly handling firearms in a motor vehicle that the
actor transported or had the firearm in the motor vehicle for any lawful
purpose and while the motor vehicle was on the actor’s own property, provided
that this affirmative defense is not available unless the person, immediately
prior to arriving at the actor’s own property, did not transport or possess the
firearm in a motor vehicle in a manner prohibited by division (b) or (c) of
this section while the motor vehicle was being operated on a street, highway or
other public or private property used by the public for vehicular traffic.
   (h)   (1)   No person who is charged with a violation of division (b), (c)
or (d) of this section shall be required to obtain a concealed handgun license
as a condition for the dismissal of the charge.
      (2)   A.   If a person is convicted of, was convicted of, pleads guilty
to, or has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (e) of this section as it
existed prior to September 30, 2011, and the conduct that was the basis of the
violation no longer would be a violation of division (e) of this section on or
after September 30, 2011, or if a person is convicted of, was convicted of,
pleads guilty to, or has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (e)(1) or
(e)(2) of this section as it existed prior to June 13, 2022, the person may
file an application under R.C. § 2953.37 requesting the expungement of the
record of conviction.
         B.   If a person is convicted of, was convicted of, pleads guilty to,
or has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (b) or (c) of this section as
the division existed prior to September 30, 2011 and if the conduct that was
the basis of the violation no longer would be a violation of division (b) or
(c) of this section on or after September 30, 2011 due to the application of
division (f)(5) of this section as it exists on and after September 30, 2011,
the person may file an application under R.C. § 2953.37 requesting the
expungement of the record of conviction.
   (i)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of improperly handling
firearms in a motor vehicle. A violation of division (a) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of division
(c) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. A violation of
division (d) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law and, if the loaded handgun is concealed on the person's person, it is
also a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of
division (e)(1) or (e)(2) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. A violation of division (e)(4) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of division (e)(3) or (e)
(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division
(e)(3) or (e)(5) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. In
addition to any other penalty or sanction imposed for a misdemeanor violation
of division (e)(3) or (e)(5) of this section, the offender's concealed handgun
license shall be suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2). A violation of
division (b) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (j)   If a law enforcement officer stops a motor vehicle for a traffic stop
or any other purpose, if any person in the motor vehicle surrenders a firearm
to the officer, either voluntarily or pursuant to a request or demand of the
officer, and if the officer does not charge the person with a violation of this
section or arrest the person for any offense, the person is not otherwise
prohibited by law from possessing the firearm, and the firearm is not
contraband, the officer shall return the firearm to the person at the
termination of the stop. If a court orders a law enforcement officer to return
a firearm to a person pursuant to the requirement set forth in this division,
R.C. § 2923.163(B) applies.
   (k)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Agriculture.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 519.01.
      (2)   “Commercial motor vehicle.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
4506.25(A).
      (3)   “Motor carrier enforcement unit.” The Motor Carrier Enforcement
Unit in the Department of Public Safety, Division of State Highway Patrol, that
is created by R.C. § 5503.34.
      (4)   “Motor vehicle,” “street” and “highway.” Have the same meaning as
in R.C. § 4511.01.
      (5)   “Occupied structure.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.01.
      (6)   “Tenant.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1531.01.
      (7)   “Unloaded.”
         A.   With respect to a firearm other than a firearm described in
division D. of this definition, means that no ammunition is in the firearm in
question, no magazine or speed loader containing ammunition is inserted into
the firearm, and one of the following applies:
            1.   There is no ammunition in a magazine or speed loader that is
in the vehicle in question and that may be used with the firearm in question.
            2.   Any magazine or speed loader that contains ammunition and that
may be used with the firearm in question is stored in a compartment within the
vehicle in question that cannot be accessed without leaving the vehicle or is
stored in a container that provides complete and separate enclosure.
         B.   For the purposes of division A.2. of this definition, a
“container that provides complete and separate enclosure” includes, but is not
limited to, any of the following:
            1.   A package, box, or case with multiple compartments, as long as
the loaded magazine or speed loader and the firearm in question either are in
separate compartments within the package, box, or case, or, if they are in the
same compartment, the magazine or speed loader is contained within a separate
enclosure in that compartment that does not contain the firearm and that closes
using a snap, button, buckle, zipper, hook and loop closing mechanism, or other
fastener that must be opened to access the contents or the firearm is contained
within a separate enclosure of that nature in that compartment that does not
contain the magazine or speed loader;
            2.   A pocket or other enclosure on the person of the person in
question that closes using a snap, button, buckle, zipper, hook and loop
closing mechanism, or other fastener that must be opened to access the
contents.
         C.   For the purposes of divisions A. and B. of this definition,
ammunition held in stripper-clips or in en-bloc clips is not considered
ammunition that is loaded into a magazine or speed loader.
         D.   “Unloaded” means, with respect to a firearm employing a
percussion cap, flintlock, or other obsolete ignition system, when the weapon
is uncapped or when the priming charge is removed from the pan.
   (l)   Divisions A. and B. of the definition of "unloaded" in division (k) of
this section do not affect the authority of a person who has been issued a
concealed handgun license that is valid at the time in question to have one or
more magazines or speed loaders containing ammunition anywhere in a vehicle,
without being transported as described in those divisions, as long as no
ammunition is in a firearm, other than a handgun, in the vehicle other than as
permitted under any other provision of this chapter. A person who has been
issued a concealed handgun license that is valid at the time in question may
have one or more magazines or speed loaders containing ammunition anywhere in a
vehicle without further restriction, as long as no ammunition is in a firearm,
other than a handgun, in the vehicle other than as permitted under any
provision of this chapter.
(R.C. § 2923.16)
Statutory reference:
   Return of surrendered firearms by law enforcement, see R.C. § 2923.163
§ 678.05 LICENSE OR PERMIT TO POSSESS DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
   (a)   Upon application to the Sheriff of the county or Safety Director or
Police Chief of the municipality where the applicant resides or has the
applicant’s principal place of business, and upon payment of the fee specified
in division (b) of this section, a license or temporary permit shall be issued
to qualified applicants to acquire, possess, carry or use a dangerous ordnance
for the following purposes:
      (1)   Contractors, wreckers, quarriers, mine operators and other persons
regularly employing explosives in the course of a legitimate business, with
respect to explosives and explosive devices acquired, possessed, carried or
used in the course of the business.
      (2)   Farmers, with respect to explosives and explosive devices acquired,
possessed, carried or used for agricultural purposes on lands farmed by them.
      (3)   Scientists, engineers and instructors, with respect to a dangerous
ordnance acquired, possessed, carried or used in the course of bona fide
research or instruction.
      (4)   Financial institutions and armored car company guards, with respect
to automatic firearms lawfully acquired, possessed, carried or used by any such
person while acting within the scope of the person’s duties.
      (5)   In the discretion of the issuing authority, any responsible person,
with respect to a dangerous ordnance lawfully acquired, possessed, carried or
used for a legitimate research, scientific, educational, industrial or other
proper purpose.
   (b)   Application for a license or temporary permit under this section shall
be in writing under oath to the Sheriff of the county or Safety Director or
Police Chief of the municipality where the applicant resides or has the
applicant’s principal place of business. The application shall be accompanied
by an application fee of $50 when the application is for a license, and an
application fee of $5 when the application is for a temporary permit. The fees
shall be paid into the General Revenue Fund of the county or municipality. The
application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name, age, address, occupation and business address of the
applicant, if the applicant is a natural person, or the name, address and
principal place of business of the applicant if the applicant is a corporation.
      (2)   A description of the dangerous ordnance for which a permit is
requested.
      (3)   A description of the places where and the manner in which the
dangerous ordnance is to be kept, carried and used.
      (4)   A statement of the purposes for which the dangerous ordnance is to
be acquired, possessed, carried or used.
      (5)   Any other information as the issuing authority may require in
giving effect to this section.
   (c)   Upon investigation, the issuing authority shall issue a license or
temporary permit only if all of the following apply:
      (1)   The applicant is not otherwise prohibited by law from acquiring,
having, carrying or using a dangerous ordnance.
      (2)   The applicant is 21 years of age or over, if the applicant is a
natural person.
      (3)   It appears that the applicant has sufficient competence to safely
acquire, possess, carry or use the dangerous ordnance, and that proper
precautions will be taken to protect the security of the dangerous ordnance and
ensure the safety of persons and property.
      (4)   It appears that the dangerous ordnance will be lawfully acquired,
possessed, carried and used by the applicant for a legitimate purpose.
   (d)   The license or temporary permit shall identify the person to whom it
is issued, identify the dangerous ordnance involved and state the purposes for
which the license or temporary permit is issued, state the expiration date, if
any, and list the restrictions on the acquisition, possession, carriage or use
of the dangerous ordnance as the issuing authority considers advisable to
protect the security of the dangerous ordnance and ensure the safety of persons
and property.
   (e)   A temporary permit shall be issued for the casual use of explosives
and explosive devices, and other consumable dangerous ordnance, and shall
expire within 30 days of its issuance. A license shall be issued for the
regular use of consumable dangerous ordnance, or for any non-consumable
dangerous ordnance, which license need not specify an expiration date, but the
issuing authority may specify such expiration date, not earlier than one year
from the date of issuance, as it considers advisable in view of the nature of
the dangerous ordnance and the purposes for which the license is issued.
   (f)   The dangerous ordnance specified in a license or temporary permit may
be obtained by the holder anywhere in the state. Pursuant to R.C. § 2923.18(F),
the holder of a license may use the dangerous ordnance anywhere in the state.
The holder of a temporary permit may use the dangerous ordnance only within the
territorial jurisdiction of the issuing authority.
   (g)   The issuing authority shall forward to the State Fire Marshal a copy
of each license or temporary permit issued pursuant to this section, and a copy
of each record of a transaction in a dangerous ordnance and of each report of a
lost or stolen dangerous ordnance, given to the local law enforcement authority
as required by R.C. § 2923.20(A)(6) and (A)(7) or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance. The State Fire Marshal will keep a permanent file of all
licenses and temporary permits issued pursuant to this section, and of all
records of transactions in, and losses or thefts of a dangerous ordnance
forwarded by local law enforcement authorities pursuant to this section.
(R.C. § 2923.18)
§ 678.06 FAILURE TO SECURE DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
   (a)   No person, in acquiring, possessing, carrying or using any dangerous
ordnance, shall negligently fail to take proper precautions:
      (1)   To secure the dangerous ordnance against theft, or against its
acquisition or use by any unauthorized or incompetent person.
      (2)   To ensure the safety of persons and property.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to a secure
dangerous ordnance, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2923.19)
§ 678.07 UNLAWFUL TRANSACTIONS IN WEAPONS.
   (a)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Recklessly sell, lend, give or furnish any firearm to any person
prohibited by R.C. § 2923.13 or 2923.15, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, from acquiring or using any firearm, or recklessly sell,
lend, give or furnish any dangerous ordnance to any person prohibited by R.C. §
2923.13, 2923.15 or 2923.17, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
from acquiring or using any dangerous ordnance;
      (2)   Possess any firearm or dangerous ordnance with purpose to dispose
of it in violation of division (a)(1) of this section;
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in division (b) of this section,
knowingly solicit, persuade, encourage, or entice a federally licensed firearms
dealer or private seller to transfer a firearm or ammunition to any person in a
manner prohibited by state or federal law;
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in division (b) of this section, with
an intent to deceive, knowingly provide materially false information to a
federally licensed firearms dealer or private seller;
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in division (b) of this section,
knowingly procure, solicit, persuade, encourage, or entice a person to act in
violation of division (a)(3) or (a)(4) of this section;
      (6)   When transferring any dangerous ordnance to another, negligently
fail to require the transferee to exhibit the identification, license or permit
showing the transferee to be authorized to acquire dangerous ordnance pursuant
to R.C. § 2923.17, or negligently fail to take a complete record of the
transaction and forthwith forward a copy of the record to the Sheriff of the
county or Safety Director or Police Chief of the municipality where the
transaction takes place;
      (7)   Knowingly fail to report to law enforcement authorities forthwith
the loss or theft of any firearm or dangerous ordnance in the person’s
possession and under his or her control.
   (b)   Divisions (a)(3), (a)(4), and (a)(5) of this section do not apply to
any of the following:
      (1)   A law enforcement officer who is acting within the scope of the
officer’s duties;
      (2)   A person who is acting in accordance with directions given by a law
enforcement officer described in division (b)(1) of this section.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful transactions in
weapons. A violation of division (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4), or (a)(5) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. A
violation of division (a)(6) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. A violation of division (a)(7) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (d)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Ammunition.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.401.
      (2)   “Federally licensed firearms dealer.” Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 5502.63.
      (3)   “Materially false information.” Means information regarding the
transfer of a firearm or ammunition that portrays an illegal transaction as
legal or a legal transaction as illegal.
      (4)   “Private seller.” Means a person who sells, offers for sale, or
transfers a firearm or ammunition and who is not a federally licensed firearms
dealer.
(R.C. § 2923.20)
§ 678.08 RESERVED.
§ 678.085 UNDERAGE PURCHASE OF A FIREARM OR HANDGUN.
   (a)   No person under 18 years of age shall purchase or attempt to purchase
a firearm.
   (b)   No person under 21 years of age shall purchase or attempt to purchase
a handgun; provided, that this division does not apply to the purchase or
attempted purchase of a handgun by a person 18 years of age or older and under
21 years of age, if either of the following applies:
      (1)   The person is a law enforcement officer and has received firearms
training approved by the Ohio Peace Officer Training Council or equivalent
firearms training.
      (2)   The person is an active or reserve member of the armed services of
the United States or the Ohio National Guard, or was honorably discharged from
military service in the active or reserve armed services of the United States
or the Ohio National Guard, and the person has received firearms training from
the armed services or the national guard or equivalent firearms training.
   (c)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of underage
purchase of a firearm, a delinquent act that would be a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law if it could be committed by an adult. Whoever
violates division (b) of this section is guilty of underage purchase of a
handgun, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2923.211)
§ 678.09 POINTING AND DISCHARGING FIREARMS AND OTHER WEAPONS.
   (a)   Except as provided in divisions (c) and (d) of this section, no person
shall discharge any air gun, rifle, shotgun, revolver, pistol or other firearm,
or make use of any sling or arrow, within the corporate limits of the
municipality.
   (b)   No person shall, intentionally and without malice, point or aim a
firearm at or toward another or discharge a firearm so pointed or aimed.
   (c)   This section does not extend to cases in which firearms, slings or
arrows are used in self-defense, in the discharge of official duty or in
justifiable homicide.
   (d)   This section does not extend to cases in which BB guns and other air
guns, or slings or arrows, are used in the confines of dwellings, provided the
use is under adult supervision and is approved by the Chief of Police.
   (e)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
§ 678.095 DISCHARGE OF A FIREARM ON OR NEAR PROHIBITED PREMISES.
   (a)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Without permission from the proper officials and subject to
division (b)(1) of this section, discharge a firearm upon or over a cemetery or
within 100 yards of a cemetery;
      (2)   Subject to division (b)(2) of this section, discharge of a firearm
on a lawn, park, pleasure ground, orchard or other ground appurtenant to a
schoolhouse, church or inhabited dwelling, the property of another or a
charitable institution;
      (3)   Discharge a firearm upon or over a public road or highway.
   (b)   (1)   Division (a)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
while on the person’s own land, discharges a firearm.
      (2)   Division (a)(2) of this section does not apply to a person who owns
any type of property described in that division and who, while on the person’s
own enclosure, discharges a firearm.
   (c)   Whoever violates division (a) of this section is guilty of discharge
of a firearm on or near prohibited premises. A violation of division (a)(1) or
(a)(2) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. A violation of
division (a)(3) of this section shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (c)(2) of this section, a
violation of division (a)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (2)   If the violation created a substantial risk of physical harm to any
person, caused serious physical harm to property, caused physical harm to any
person, or caused serious physical harm to any person, a violation of division
(a)(3) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2923.162)
§ 678.10 FIREWORKS.
   (a)   Definitions. Unless otherwise provided, for the purpose of this
chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “1.3G fireworks.” Display fireworks consistent with regulations of
the United States Department of Transportation as expressed using the
designation “Division 1.3” in Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
      (2)   “1.4G fireworks.” Consumer fireworks consistent with regulations of
the United States Department of Transportation as expressed using the
designation “Division 1.4” in Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
      (3)   “Beer” and “intoxicating liquor.” Have the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 4301.01.
      (4)   “Booby trap.” A small tube that has a string protruding from both
ends that has a friction-sensitive composition and that is ignited by pulling
the ends of the string.
      (5)   “Cigarette load.” A small wooden peg that is coated with a small
quantity of explosive composition and that is ignited in a cigarette.
      (6)   “Controlled substance.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
      (7)   “Discharge site.” An area immediately surrounding the mortars used
to fire aerial shells.
      (8)   “Fireworks.” Any composition or device prepared for the purpose of
producing a visible or an audible effect by combustion, deflagration or
detonation, except ordinary matches and except as provided in R.C. § 3743.80.
      (9)   “Fireworks incident.” Any action or omission that occurs at a
fireworks exhibition that results in injury or death, or a substantial risk of
injury or death, to any person, and that involves either of the following:
         A.   The handling or other use, or the results of the handling or
other use, of fireworks or associated equipment or other materials;
         B.   The failure of any person to comply with any applicable
requirement imposed by this section or R.C. Chapter 3743, or any applicable
rule adopted under this section or R.C. Chapter 3743.
      (10)   “Fireworks incident site.” A discharge site or other location at a
fireworks exhibition where a fireworks incident occurs, a location where an
injury or death associated with a fireworks incident occurs, or a location
where evidence of a fireworks incident or an injury or death associated with a
fireworks incident is found.
      (11)   “Fireworks plant.” All buildings and other structures in which the
manufacturing of fireworks, or the storage or sale of manufactured fireworks by
a manufacturer, takes place.
      (12)   "Fountain device." Means a specific type of 1.4G firework that
meets all of the following criteria:
         A.   It is nonaerial and nonreport producing.
         B.   It is recognized and manufactured in accordance with sections
3.1.1 and 3.5 of APA standard 87-1 (2001 edition).
         C.   It is a ground-based or hand-held sparkler with one or more tubes
containing a nonexplosive pyrotechnic mixture that produces a shower of sparks
upon ignition, with or without additional effects that may include a colored
flame, audible crackling effect, audible whistle effect, or smoke.
         D.   It contains not more than 75 grams of the nonexplosive
pyrotechnic mixture in any individual tube and not more than 500 grams or less
for multiple tubes.
      (13)   “Highway.” Any public street, road, alley, way, lane or other
public thoroughfare.
      (14)   "Intoxicating liquor." Had the same meaning as in R.C. § 4301.01.
      (15)   “Licensed building.” A building on the licensed premises of a
licensed manufacturer or wholesaler of fireworks that is approved for occupancy
by the building official having jurisdiction.
      (16)   “Licensed exhibitor of fireworks” or “licensed exhibitor.” A
person licensed pursuant to R.C. §§ 3743.50 through 3743.55.
      (17)   "Licensed fountain device retailer" or "licensed retailer." Means
a person licensed pursuant to R.C. § 3743.26.
      (18)   “Licensed manufacturer of fireworks” or “licensed manufacturer.” A
person licensed pursuant to R.C. §§ 3743.02 through 3743.08.
      (19)   “Licensed premises.” The real estate upon which a licensed
manufacturer or wholesaler of fireworks conducts business.
      (20)   “Licensed wholesaler of fireworks” or “licensed wholesaler.” A
person licensed pursuant to R.C. §§ 3743.15 through 3743.21.
      (21)   “List of licensed exhibitors.” The list required by R.C. § 3743.51
(C).
      (22)   “List of licensed manufacturers.” The list required by R.C. §
3743.03(C).
      (23)   “List of licensed wholesalers.” The list required by R.C. §
3743.16(C).
      (24)   “Manufacturing of fireworks.” The making of fireworks from raw
materials, none of which in and of themselves constitute fireworks, or the
processing of fireworks.
      (25)   “Navigable waters.” Any body of water susceptible of being used in
its ordinary condition as a highway of commerce over which trade and travel is
or may be conducted in the customary modes, but does not include a body of
water that is not capable of navigation by barges, tugboats, and other large
vessels.
      (26)   “Novelties” and “trick noisemakers.”
         A.   Devices that produce a small report intended to surprise the
user, including but not limited to booby traps, cigarette loads, party poppers
and snappers;
         B.   Snakes or glow worms;
         C.   Smoke devices;
         D.   Trick matches.
      (27)   “Party popper.” A small plastic or paper item that contains not
more than 16 milligrams of friction-sensitive explosive composition that is
ignited by pulling a string protruding from the item, and from which paper
streamers are expelled when the item is ignited.
      (28)   “Processing of fireworks.” The making of fireworks from materials
all or part of which in and of themselves constitute fireworks, but does not
include the mere packaging or repackaging of fireworks.
      (29)   “Railroad.” Any railway or railroad that carries freight or
passengers for hire, but does not include auxiliary tracks, spurs and sidings
installed and primarily used in serving a mine, quarry or plant.
      (30)   “Retail sale” or “sell at retail.” A sale of fireworks to a
purchaser who intends to use the fireworks and not to resell them.
      (31)   “Smoke device.” A tube or sphere that contains pyrotechnic
composition that, upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary
effect.
      (32)   “Snake” or “glow worm.” A device that consists of a pressed pellet
of pyrotechnic composition that produces a large snake-like ash upon burning,
which ash expands in length as the pellet burns.
      (33)   “Snapper.” A small paper-wrapped item that contains a minute
quantity of explosive composition coated on small bits of sand and that, when
dropped, implodes.
      (34)   "Storage location." A single parcel or contiguous parcels of real
estate approved by the Ohio Fire Marshal pursuant to R.C. §§ 3743.04(I) or
3743.17(F) that are separate from a licensed premises containing a retail
showroom, and which parcel or parcels a licensed manufacturer or wholesaler of
fireworks may use only for the distribution, possession and storage of
fireworks in accordance with this chapter.
      (35)   “Trick match.” A kitchen or book match that is coated with a small
quantity of explosive composition and that, upon ignition, produces a small
report or a shower of sparks.
      (36)   “Wholesale sale” or “sell at wholesale.” A sale of fireworks to a
purchaser who intends to resell the fireworks so purchased.
      (37)   “Wire sparkler.” A sparkler consisting of a wire or stick coated
with a nonexplosive pyrotechnic mixture that produces a shower of sparks upon
ignition and that contains no more than 100 grams of this mixture.
(R.C. § 3743.01)
   (b)   Manufacturing.
      (1)   No licensed manufacturer of fireworks shall knowingly fail to
comply with the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal pursuant to R.C. §
3743.05 or the requirements of R.C. § 3743.06.
      (2)   No licensed manufacturer of fireworks shall fail to maintain
complete inventory, wholesale sale and retail records as required by R.C. §
3743.07, or to permit an inspection of these records or the premises of a
fireworks plant or the wholesaler pursuant to R.C. § 3743.08.
      (3)   No licensed manufacturer of fireworks shall fail to comply with an
order of the State Fire Marshal issued pursuant to R.C. § 3743.08(B)(1) within
the specified period of time.
      (4)   No licensed manufacturer of fireworks shall fail to comply with an
order of the State Fire Marshal issued pursuant to R.C. § 3743.08(B)(2) until
the nonconformities are eliminated, corrected or otherwise remedied or the 72-
hour period specified in those divisions has expired, whichever occurs first.
      (5)   No person shall smoke or shall carry a pipe, cigarette or cigar, or
a match, lighter, other flame-producing item or open flame on, or shall carry a
concealed source of ignition into, the premises of a fireworks plant, except as
smoking is authorized in specified lunchrooms or restrooms by a manufacturer
pursuant to R.C. § 3743.06(C).
      (6)   No person shall have possession or control of, or be under the
influence of, any intoxicating liquor, beer or controlled substance while on
the premises of a fireworks plant.
      (7)   No licensed manufacturer of fireworks shall negligently fail to
furnish a safety pamphlet to a purchaser of 1.4G fireworks as required by R.C.
§ 3743.47(A).
      (8)   No licensed manufacturer of fireworks shall negligently fail to
have safety glasses available for sale as required by R.C. § 3743.47(B).
(R.C. § 3743.60(E) - (L))
   (c)   Wholesaling.
      (1)   No licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall knowingly fail to comply
with the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal pursuant to R.C. § 3743.18 or
the requirements of R.C. § 3743.19.
      (2)   No licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall fail to maintain complete
inventory, wholesale sale and retail records as required by R.C. § 3743.20, or
to permit an inspection of these records or the premises of a fireworks plant
or the wholesaler pursuant to R.C. § 3743.21.
      (3)   No licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall fail to comply with an
order of the State Fire Marshal issued pursuant to R.C. § 3743.21(B)(1) within
the specified period of time.
      (4)   No licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall fail to comply with an
order of the State Fire Marshal issued pursuant to R.C. § 3743.21(B)(2) until
the nonconformities are eliminated, corrected or otherwise remedied or the 72-
hour period specified in those divisions has expired, whichever occurs first.
      (5)   No person shall smoke or shall carry a pipe, cigarette or cigar, or
a match, lighter, other flame-producing item or open flame on, or shall carry a
concealed source of ignition into, the premises of a wholesaler of fireworks,
except as smoking is authorized in specified lunchrooms or restrooms by a
wholesaler pursuant to R.C. § 3743.19(D).
      (6)   No person shall have possession or control of, or be under the
influence of, any intoxicating liquor, beer or controlled substance while on
the premises of a wholesaler of fireworks.
      (7)   No licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall negligently fail to
furnish a safety pamphlet to a purchaser of 1.4G fireworks as required by R.C.
§ 3743.47(A).
      (8)   No licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall negligently fail to have
safety glasses available for sale as required by R.C. § 3743.47(B).
(R.C. § 3743.61(E) - (L))
   (d)   Purchasing and Transporting.
      (1)   No person who purchases fireworks in this municipality shall obtain
possession of the fireworks in this municipality unless the person complies
with R.C. §§ 3743.44 to 3743.46.
      (2)   Except for the purchase of 1.4G fireworks made under R.C. §
3743.45, no person who resides in another state and who purchases fireworks in
this state shall obtain possession of fireworks in this state other than from a
licensed manufacturer or wholesaler, or fail, when transporting 1.3G fireworks,
to transport them directly out of this state within 72 hours after the time of
their purchase.
      (3)   No person who purchases fireworks in this state under R.C. §
3743.45 shall give or sell to any other person in this municipality fireworks
that the person has acquired in this state.
(R.C. § 3743.63)
   (e)   Prohibited Activities by Exhibitors.
      (1)   An exhibitor of fireworks licensed under R.C. §§ 3743.50 through
3743.55 who wishes to conduct a public fireworks exhibition shall apply for
approval to conduct the exhibition to the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer
and to the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or the
designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer,
having jurisdiction over the premises.
      (2)   The approval required by division (e)(1) of this section shall be
evidenced by the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and by the Police Chief
or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or the designee of the Police
Chief or similar chief law enforcement officer, signing a permit for the
exhibition. Any exhibitor of fireworks who wishes to conduct a public fireworks
exhibition may obtain a copy of the form from the State Fire Marshal or, if
available, from the Fire Chief, a fire prevention officer, the Police Chief or
other similar chief law enforcement officer, or a designee of the Police Chief
or other similar chief law enforcement officer.
      (3)   Before a permit is signed and issued to a licensed exhibitor of
fireworks, the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer, in consultation with the
Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or the designee of
the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, shall inspect
the premises on which the exhibition will take place and shall determine that,
in fact, the applicant for the permit is a licensed exhibitor of fireworks.
Each applicant shall show his or her license as an exhibitor of fireworks to
the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer.
      (4)   The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and the Police Chief or
other similar chief law enforcement officer, or the designee of the Police
Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, shall give approval to
conduct a public fireworks exhibition only if satisfied, based on the
inspection, that the premises on which the exhibition will be conducted allow
the exhibitor to comply with the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal
pursuant to R.C. § 3743.53(B) and (E) and that the applicant is, in fact, a
licensed exhibitor of fireworks. The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer, in
consultation with the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement
officer or with the designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief law
enforcement officer, may inspect the premises immediately prior to the
exhibition to determine if the exhibitor has complied with the rules, and may
revoke a permit for noncompliance with the rules.
      (5)   If the Council has prescribed a fee for the issuance of a permit
for a public fireworks exhibition, the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer
and Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or their
designee, shall not issue a permit until the exhibitor pays the requisite fee.
      (6)   Each exhibitor shall provide an indemnity bond in the amount of at
least $1,000,000 with surety satisfactory to the Fire Chief or fire prevention
officer and to the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer,
or the designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement
officer, conditioned for the payment of all final judgments that may be
rendered against the exhibitor on account of injury, death or loss to person or
property emanating from the fireworks exhibitor, or proof of insurance coverage
of at least $1,000,000 for liability arising from injury, death or loss of
persons or property emanating from the fireworks exhibition. The Council may
require the exhibitor to provide an indemnity bond or proof of insurance
coverage in amounts greater than those required by this division. The Fire
Chief or fire prevention officer and Police Chief or other similar chief law
enforcement officer, or their designee, shall not issue a permit until the
exhibitor provides the bond or proof of the insurance coverage required by this
division or by the Council.
      (7)   Each permit for a fireworks exhibition issued by the Fire Chief or
fire prevention officer and by the Police Chief or other similar chief law
enforcement officer, or the designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief
law enforcement officer, shall contain a distinct number, designate the
municipality, and identify the certified fire safety inspector, Fire Chief or
fire prevention officer who will be present before, during and after the
exhibition, where appropriate. A copy of each permit issued shall be forwarded
by the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and by the Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, or designee of the Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, issuing it to the State Fire Marshal. A
permit is not transferable or assignable.
      (8)   The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, or designee of the Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, shall keep a record of issued permits
for fireworks exhibitions. In this list, the Fire Chief, fire prevention
officer, Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or
designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer,
shall list the name of the exhibitor, his or her license number, the premises
on which the exhibition will be conducted, the date and time of the exhibition,
and the number and political subdivision designation of the permit issued to
the exhibitor for the exhibition.
      (9)   The Council shall require that a certified fire safety inspector,
Fire Chief or fire prevention officer be present before, during and after the
exhibition, and shall require the certified fire safety inspector, Fire Chief
or fire prevention officer to inspect the premises where the exhibition is to
take place and determine whether the exhibition is in compliance with this
section and R.C. Chapter 3743.
(R.C. § 3743.54)
      (10)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall fail to comply with the
applicable requirements of the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal pursuant
to R.C. § 3743.53(B) and (E) or to comply with R.C. § 3743.53(C) and (D).
      (11)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall conduct a fireworks
exhibition unless a permit has been secured for the exhibition pursuant to R.C.
§ 3743.54 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or if a permit so
secured is revoked by a Fire Chief or fire prevention officer, in consultation
with a Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or with a
designee of a Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer,
pursuant to those sections.
      (12)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall acquire fireworks for use
at a fireworks exhibition other than in accordance with R.C. §§ 3743.54 and
3743.55, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (13)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks or other person associated with
the conduct of a fireworks exhibition shall have possession or control of, or
be under the influence of, any intoxicating liquor, beer or controlled
substance while on the premises on which the exhibition is being conducted.
      (14)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall permit an employee to
assist the licensed exhibitor in conducting fireworks exhibitions unless the
employee is registered with the State Fire Marshal under R.C. § 3743.56.
(R.C. § 3743.64)
   (f)   Possession, Sale, Discharge and Advertising; Falsification.
      (1)   No person shall possess fireworks in this municipality or shall
possess for sale or sell fireworks in this municipality, except a licensed
manufacturer of fireworks as authorized by R.C. §§ 3743.02 to 3743.08, a
licensed wholesaler of fireworks as authorized by R.C. §§ 3743.15 to 3743.21, a
shipping permit holder as authorized by R.C. § 3743.40, a licensed fountain
device retailer as authorized by R.C. § 3743.27, a person as authorized by R.C.
§§ 3743.44 and 3743.45, or a licensed exhibitor of fireworks as authorized by
R.C. §§ 3743.50 to 3743.55, or as authorized by any municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to any of these statutes, and except as provided in
R.C. § 3743.80 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (f)(8), R.C. §§ 3743.45 and 3743.80
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and except for licensed
exhibitors of fireworks authorized to conduct a fireworks exhibition pursuant
to R.C. §§ 3743.50 through 3743.55 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, no person shall discharge, ignite, or explode any fireworks in this
municipality.
      (3)   No person shall use in a theater or public hall what is technically
known as fireworks showers, or a mixture containing potassium chlorate and
sulphur.
      (4)   No person shall sell fireworks of any kind to a person under 18
years of age. No person under 18 years of age shall enter a fireworks sales
showroom unless that person is accompanied by a parent, legal guardian or other
responsible adult. No person under 18 years of age shall touch or possess
fireworks on a licensed premises without the consent of the licensee. A
licensee may eject any person from a licensed premises that is in any way
disruptive to the safe operation of the premises.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 3743.44, no person, other
than a licensed manufacturer, licensed wholesaler, licensed exhibitor or
shipping permit holder shall possess 1.3G fireworks in this municipality.
      (6)   No person shall negligently discharge, ignite, or explode fireworks
while in possession or control of, or under the influence of, any intoxicating
liquor, beer, or controlled substance.
      (7)   No person shall negligently discharge, ignite, or explode fireworks
on the property of another person without that person's permission to use
fireworks on that property.
(R.C. § 3743.65(A) - (E), (G), H))
      (8)   Purchase, use, and local regulation of consumer-grade fireworks.
         A.   Any person who intends to obtain possession in this state of 1.4G
fireworks purchased in this state shall obtain possession of the 1.4G fireworks
only from a licensed retailer, licensed manufacturer, or licensed wholesaler
and shall be subject to this division (f)(8).
         B.   Any person authorized under this division (f)(8) to possess 1.4G
fireworks in this state may discharge, ignite, or explode those fireworks on
private property, with authorization from the property owner, on the following
days each year:
            1.   January 1st;
            2.   Chinese new year's day;
            3.   May 5th;
            4.   The last Monday in May, and the Saturday and Sunday
immediately preceding that day;
            5.   June 19th;
            6.   July 3rd, 4th, and 5th;
            7.   The first Friday, Saturday, and Sunday before and after July
4th;
            8.   The first Monday of September, and the Saturday and Sunday
immediately preceding that day;
            9.   Diwali;
            10.   December 31st.
         C.   Fireworks discharged, ignited, or exploded pursuant to this
division (f)(8) shall not be considered a public exhibition.
         D.   The municipality may do either of the following:
            (a)   Restrict the dates and times a person may discharge, ignite,
or explode fireworks purchased pursuant to this division (f)(8).
            (b)   Ban the discharge, ignition, or explosion of fireworks
purchased pursuant to this division (f)(8).
         E.   This division (f)(8) does not limit the enforcement of any
ordinance, resolution, or statute that regulates noise, disturbance of the
peace, or disorderly conduct.
(R.C. § 3743.45)
   (g)   Transporting and Shipping.
      (1)   No person shall transport fireworks in this municipality except in
accordance with the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal pursuant to R.C. §
3743.58.
      (2)   As used in this division, “fireworks” includes only 1.3G and 1.4G
fireworks. No person shall ship fireworks into this municipality by mail,
parcel post or common carrier unless the person possesses a valid shipping
permit issued under R.C. § 3743.40, and the fireworks are shipped directly to
the holder of a license issued under R.C. §§ 3743.03, 3743.16 or 3743.51.
      (3)   No person shall ship fireworks within this municipality by mail,
parcel post or common carrier unless the fireworks are shipped directly to the
holder of a license issued under R.C. §§ 3743.01, 3743.16 or 3743.51.
(R.C. § 3743.66)
   (h)   Exceptions. This section does not prohibit or apply to the following:
      (1)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use
in emergency situations of pyrotechnic signaling devices and distress signals
for marine, aviation or highway use;
      (2)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use
of fusees, torpedoes or other signals necessary for the safe operation of
railroads;
      (3)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use
of blank cartridges in connection with theaters or shows, or in connection with
athletics as signals for ceremonial purposes;
      (4)   The manufacture for, the transportation, storage, possession or use
by, or the sale to the armed forces of the United States and the militia of
this state, as recognized by the Adjutant General of Ohio, of pyrotechnic
devices;
      (5)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use
of toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns or other devices in which paper or plastic
caps containing 0.25 grains or less of explosive material are used, provided
that they are constructed so that a hand cannot come into contact with a cap
when it is in place for explosion, or apply to the manufacture, sale,
possession, transportation, storage or use of those caps;
      (6)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use
of novelties and trick noisemakers, auto burglar alarms or model rockets and
model rocket motors designed, sold, and used for the purpose of propelling
recoverable aero models;
      (7)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use
of wire sparklers;
      (8)   The conduct of radio-controlled special effect exhibitions that use
an explosive black powder charge of not more than one-quarter pound per charge,
and that are not connected in any manner to propellant charges; provided, that
the exhibition complies with all of the following:
         A.   No explosive aerial display is conducted in the exhibition;
         B.   The exhibition is separated from spectators by not less than 200
feet;
         C.   The person conducting the exhibition complies with regulations of
the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms of the United States Department of
the Treasury and the United States Department of Transportation with respect to
the storage and transport of the explosive black powder used in the exhibition.
(R.C. § 3743.80)
   (i)   Forfeiture and Disposal. Fireworks manufactured, sold, possessed,
transported or used in violation of this section shall be forfeited by the
offender. The Fire Marshal’s office or certified fire safety inspector’s office
shall dispose of seized fireworks pursuant to the procedures specified in R.C.
§§ 2981.11 to 2981.13 for the disposal of forfeited property by law enforcement
agencies, and the Fire Marshal or that office is not liable for claims for the
loss of or damages to the seized fireworks.
(R.C. § 3743.68(B))
   (j)   Penalty.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (j)(2) or (j)(3) of this
section, whoever violates any provisions of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of R.C. §§ 3743.60(I) or 3743.61(I), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, a violation of division (b)(5) of this section
or division (c)(5) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (e)(10) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition to any other penalties that may be
imposed on a licensed exhibitor of fireworks under this division and unless the
third sentence of this division applies, the person's license as an exhibitor
of fireworks or as an assistant exhibitor of fireworks shall be suspended. If
the violation of division (e)(10) of this section results in serious physical
harm to persons or serious physical harm to property, the person's license as
an exhibitor of fireworks or as an assistant exhibitor of fireworks shall be
revoked.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (f)(6) is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree. Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, a
person may be convicted at the same trial or proceeding of a violation of
division (f)(6) and a violation of R.C. § 2917.11(B), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that constitutes the basis of the charge of the
violation of division (f)(6).
      (5)   Whoever violates division (b)(7), (b)(8), (c)(7), or (c)(8) is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (f)(7) is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 3743.99(C), (D), (F) - (H))
§ 678.11 ENDANGERING AIRCRAFT AND AIRPORT OPERATIONS.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “Air gun.” A hand pistol or rifle that propels its projectile by
means of releasing compressed air, carbon dioxide or other gas.
      (2)   “Airport operational surface.” Any surface of land or water that is
developed, posted or marked so as to give an observer reasonable notice that
the surface is designed and developed for the purpose of storing, parking,
taxiing or operating aircraft, or any surface of land or water that is actually
being used for any of those purposes.
      (3)   “Firearm.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2923.11.
      (4)   “Spring-operated gun.” A hand pistol or rifle that propels a
projectile not less than four or more than five millimeters in diameter by
means of a spring.
   (b)   No person shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly throw an object at, or drop an object upon, any moving
aircraft.
      (2)   Knowingly shoot with a bow and arrow, or knowingly discharge a
firearm, air gun or spring-operated gun, at or toward any aircraft.
   (c)   No person shall knowingly or recklessly shoot with a bow and arrow, or
shall knowingly or recklessly discharge a firearm, air gun or spring-operated
gun, upon or over any airport operational surface. This division does not apply
to the following:
      (1)   An officer, agent or employee of this or any other state or of the
United States, or a law enforcement officer, authorized to discharge firearms
and acting within the scope of his or her duties.
      (2)   A person who, with the consent of the owner or operator of the
airport operational surface or the authorized agent of either, is lawfully
engaged in any hunting or sporting activity or is otherwise lawfully
discharging a firearm.
   (d)   Whoever violates division (b) of this section is guilty of endangering
aircraft, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation creates any risk
of physical harm to any person, or if the aircraft that is the subject of the
violation is occupied, endangering aircraft is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (e)   Whoever violates division (c) of this section is guilty of endangering
airport operations, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the violation
creates a risk of physical harm to any person or substantial risk of serious
harm to any person, endangering airport operations is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law. In addition to any other penalty or sanction
imposed for the violation, the hunting license or permit of a person who
violates division (c) of this section while hunting shall be suspended or
revoked pursuant to R.C. § 1533.68.
(R.C. § 2909.08(A) - (E))
§ 678.12 POSSESSING CRIMINAL TOOLS.
   (a)   No person shall possess or have under his or her control any
substance, device, instrument or article, with purpose to use it criminally.
   (b)   Each of the following constitutes prima facie evidence of criminal
purpose:
      (1)   Possession or control of any dangerous ordnance, or the materials
or parts for making a dangerous ordnance, in the absence of circumstances
indicating the dangerous ordnance, materials or parts are intended for a
legitimate use.
      (2)   Possession or control of any substance, device, instrument or
article designed or specially adapted for criminal use.
      (3)   Possession or control of any substance, device, instrument or
article commonly used for criminal purposes, under circumstances indicating the
item is intended for criminal use.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possessing criminal tools.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, possessing criminal tools is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the circumstances indicate that the
substance, device, instrument or article involved in the offense was intended
for use in the commission of a felony, possessing criminal tools is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2923.24)
§ 678.13 POSSESSION OF AN OBJECT INDISTINGUISHABLE FROM A FIREARM IN A SCHOOL
SAFETY ZONE.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly possess an object in a school safety zone if
both of the following apply:
      (1)   The object is indistinguishable from a firearm, whether or not the
object is capable of being fired.
      (2)   The person indicates that the person possesses the object and that
it is a firearm, or the person knowingly displays or brandishes the object and
indicates that it is a firearm.
   (b)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         A.   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or the
United States, who is authorized to carry deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance
and is acting within the scope of the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s duties,
a law enforcement officer who is authorized to carry deadly weapons or
dangerous ordnance, a security officer employed by a board of education or
governing body of a school during the time that the security officer is on duty
pursuant to that contract of employment, or any other person who has written
authorization from the board of education or governing body of a school to
convey deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance into a school safety zone or to
possess a deadly weapon or dangerous ordnance in a school safety zone and who
conveys or possesses the deadly weapon or dangerous ordnance in accordance with
that authorization;
         B.   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance, and who is subject to and in
compliance with the requirements of R.C. § 109.801, unless the appointing
authority of the person has expressly specified that the exemption provided in
this division (b)(1)B. does not apply to the person.
      (2)   This section does not apply to premises upon which home schooling
is conducted. This section also does not apply to a school administrator,
teacher or employee who possesses an object that is indistinguishable from a
firearm for legitimate school purposes during the course of employment, a
student who uses an object that is indistinguishable from a firearm under the
direction of a school administrator, teacher or employee, or any other person
who, with the express prior approval of a school administrator, possesses an
object that is indistinguishable from a firearm for a legitimate purpose,
including the use of the object in a ceremonial activity, a play, re-enactment
or other dramatic presentation, school safety training, or a ROTC activity or
another similar use of the object.
      (3)   This section does not apply to a person who conveys or attempts to
convey a handgun into, or possesses a handgun in, a school safety zone if, at
the time of that conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession of the
handgun, all of the following apply:
         A.   The person does not enter into a school building or onto school
premises and is not at a school activity.
         B.   The person has been issued a concealed handgun license that is
valid at the time of the conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession or the
person is an active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is
carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1).
         C.   The person is in the school safety zone in accordance with 18
U.S.C. § 922(q)(2)(B).
         D.   The person is not knowingly in a place described in R.C. §
2923.126(B)(1) or (B)(3) to (B)(8).
      (4)   This section does not apply to a person who conveys or attempts to
convey a handgun into, or possesses a handgun in, a school safety zone if at
the time of that conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession of the handgun
all of the following apply:
         A.   The person has been issued a concealed handgun license that is
valid at the time of the conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession or the
person is an active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is
carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1).
         B.   The person leaves the handgun in a motor vehicle.
         C.   The handgun does not leave the motor vehicle.
         D.   If the person exits the motor vehicle, the person locks the motor
vehicle.
   (c)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal possession of an
object indistinguishable from a firearm in a school safety zone. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, illegal possession of an object
indistinguishable from a firearm in a school safety zone is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation
of this section, illegal possession of an object indistinguishable from a
firearm in a school safety zone is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (d)   (1)   In addition to any other penalty imposed upon a person who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of this section, and subject to
division (d)(2) of this section, if the offender has not attained 19 years of
age, regardless of whether the offender is attending or is enrolled in a school
operated by a board of education or for which the State Board of Education
prescribes minimum standards under R.C. § 3301.07, the court shall impose upon
the offender a class four suspension of the offender’s probationary driver’s
license, restricted license, driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit or probationary commercial driver’s license that
then is in effect from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4) and shall
deny the offender the issuance of any permit or license of that type during the
period of the suspension. If the offender is not a resident of this state, the
court shall impose a class four suspension of the nonresident operating
privilege of the offender from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
      (2)   If the offender shows good cause why the court should not suspend
one of the types of licenses, permits or privileges specified in division (d)
(1) of this section or deny the issuance of one of the temporary instruction
permits specified in division (d)(1) of this section, the court in its
discretion may choose not to impose the suspension, revocation or denial
required in division (d)(1) of this section, but the court, in its discretion,
instead may require the offender to perform community service for a number of
hours determined by the court.
   (e)   As used in this section, “object that is indistinguishable from a
firearm” means an object made, constructed or altered so that, to a reasonable
person without specialized training in firearms, the object appears to be a
firearm.
(R.C. § 2923.122(C) - (G))
Statutory reference:
   Conveyance or possession of deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance in a school
safety zone, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.122(A), (B)
§ 678.14 CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSES: POSSESSION OF A REVOKED OR SUSPENDED
LICENSE; ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS; POSTING OF SIGNS PROHIBITING POSSESSION.
   (a)   Possession of a Revoked or Suspended Concealed Handgun License.
      (1)   No person, except in the performance of official duties, shall
possess a concealed handgun license that was issued and that has been revoked
or suspended.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (a) is guilty of possessing a
revoked or suspended concealed handgun license, a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. § 2923.1211(B), (C))
   (b)   Additional Restrictions. Pursuant to R.C. § 2923.126:
      (1)   A concealed handgun license that is issued under R.C. § 2923.125
shall expire five years after the date of issuance. A licensee who has been
issued a license under that section shall be granted a grace period of 30 days
after the licensee's license expires during which the licensee's license
remains valid. Except as provided in divisions (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this
section, a licensee who has been issued a concealed handgun license under R.C.
§ 2923.125 or 2923.1213 may carry a concealed handgun anywhere in this state if
the license is valid when the licensee is in actual possession of a concealed
handgun. The licensee shall give notice of any change in the licensee's
residence address to the sheriff who issued the license within 45 days after
that change.
      (2)   A valid concealed handgun license does not authorize the licensee
to carry a concealed handgun in any manner prohibited under R.C. § 2923.12(B)
or in any manner prohibited under R.C. § 2923.16. A valid license does not
authorize the licensee to carry a concealed handgun into any of the following
places:
         A.   A police station, sheriff’s office, or state highway patrol
station, premises controlled by the bureau of criminal identification and
investigation; a state correctional institution, jail, workhouse, or other
detention facility; any area of an airport passenger terminal that is beyond a
passenger or property screening checkpoint or to which access is restricted
through security measures by the airport authority or a public agency; or an
institution that is maintained, operated, managed, and governed pursuant to
R.C. §§ 5119.14(A) or 5123.03(A)(1);
         B.   A school safety zone if the licensee’s carrying the concealed
handgun is in violation of R.C. § 2923.122;
         C.   A courthouse or another building or structure in which a
courtroom is located if the licensee’s carrying the concealed handgun is in
violation of R.C. § 2923.123;
         D.   Any premises or open air arena for which a D permit has been
issued under R.C. Chapter 4303, if the licensee’s carrying the concealed
handgun is in violation of R.C. § 2923.121;
         E.   Any premises owned or leased by any public or private college,
university or other institution of higher education, unless the handgun is in a
locked motor vehicle or the licensee is in the immediate process of placing the
handgun in a locked motor vehicle or unless the licensee is carrying the
concealed handgun pursuant to a written policy, rule, or other authorization
that is adopted by the institution’s board of trustees or other governing body
and that authorizes specific individuals or classes of individuals to carry a
concealed handgun on the premises;
         F.   Any church, synagogue, mosque or other place of worship, unless
the church, synagogue, mosque or other place of worship posts or permits
otherwise;
         G.   Any building that is a government facility of this state or a
political subdivision of this state and that is not a building that is used
primarily as a shelter, restroom, parking facility for motor vehicles, or rest
facility and is not a courthouse or other building or structure in which a
courtroom is located that is subject to division (b)(2)C. of this section,
unless the governing body with authority over the building has enacted a
statute, ordinance, or policy that permits a licensee to carry a concealed
handgun into the building;
         H.   A place in which federal law prohibits the carrying of handguns.
      (3)   A.   Nothing in this division (b) shall negate or restrict a rule,
policy or practice of a private employer that is not a private college,
university, or other institution of higher education concerning or prohibiting
the presence of firearms on the private employer’s premises or property,
including motor vehicles owned by the private employer. Nothing in this
division (b) shall require a private employer of that nature to adopt a rule,
policy or practice concerning or prohibiting the presence of firearms on the
private employer’s premises or property, including motor vehicles owned by the
private employer.
         B.   1.   A private employer shall be immune from liability in a civil
action for any injury, death or loss to person or property that allegedly was
caused by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto the premises or
property of the private employer, including motor vehicles owned by the private
employer, unless the private employer acted with malicious purpose. A private
employer is immune from liability in a civil action for any injury, death or
loss to person or property that allegedly was caused by or related to the
private employer’s decision to permit a licensee to bring, or prohibit a
licensee from bringing, a handgun onto the premises or property of the private
employer.
            2.   A political subdivision shall be immune from liability in a
civil action, to the extent and in the manner provided in R.C. Chapter 2744,
for any injury, death or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused
by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto any premises or property
owned, leased or otherwise under the control of the political subdivision. As
used in this division, “political subdivision” has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2744.01.
            3.   An institution of higher education shall be immune from
liability in a civil action for any injury, death, or loss to person or
property that allegedly was caused by or related to a licensee bringing a
handgun onto the premises of the institution, including motor vehicles owned by
the institution, unless the institution acted with malicious purpose. An
institution of higher education is immune from liability in a civil action for
any injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused by
or related to the institution’s decision to permit a licensee or class of
licensees to bring a handgun onto the premises of the institution.
            4.   A nonprofit corporation shall be immune from liability in a
civil action for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that
allegedly was caused by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto the
premises of the nonprofit corporation, including any motor vehicle owned by the
nonprofit corporation, or to any event organized by the nonprofit corporation,
unless the nonprofit corporation acted with malicious purpose. A nonprofit
corporation is immune from liability in a civil action for any injury, death,
or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused by or related to the
nonprofit corporation's decision to permit a licensee to bring a handgun onto
the premises of the nonprofit corporation or to any event organized by the
nonprofit corporation.
         C.   1.   a.   Except as provided in division (b)(3)C.2. of this
section and R.C. § 2923.1214, the owner or person in control of private land or
premises, and a private person or entity leasing land or premises owned by the
state, the United States, or a political subdivision of the state or the United
States, may post a sign in a conspicuous location on that land or on those
premises prohibiting persons from carrying firearms or concealed firearms on or
onto that land or those premises. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, a person who knowingly violates a posted prohibition of that nature
is guilty of criminal trespass in violation of R.C. § 2911.21(A)(4) and is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If a person knowingly violates a
posted prohibition of that nature and the posted land or premises primarily was
a parking lot or other parking facility, the person is not guilty of criminal
trespass under R.C. § 2911.21 or under any other criminal law of this state or
criminal law, ordinance, or resolution of a political subdivision of this
state, and instead is subject only to a civil cause of action for trespass
based on the violation.
               b.   If a person knowingly violates a posted prohibition of the
nature described in this division and the posted land or premises is a child
day-care center, type A family day-care home, or type B family day-care home,
unless the person is a licensee who resides in a type A family day-care home or
type B family day-care home, the person is guilty of aggravated trespass in
violation of R.C. § 2911.211. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the person
previously has been convicted of a violation of this division or any
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any offense of
violence, if the weapon involved is a firearm that is either loaded or for
which the offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the weapon involved is
dangerous ordnance, the offender is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
            2.   A landlord may not prohibit or restrict a tenant who is a
licensee and who on or after September 9, 2008 enters into a rental agreement
with the landlord for the use of residential premises, and the tenant’s guest
while the tenant is present, from lawfully carrying or possessing a handgun on
those residential premises.
            3.   As used in division (b)(3)C. of this section:
               a.   “Residential premises.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5321.01, except “residential premises” does not include a dwelling unit that is
owned or operated by a college or university.
               b.   “Landlord,” “tenant,” and “rental agreement.” Have the same
meanings as in R.C. § 5321.01.
      (4)   A person who holds a valid concealed handgun license issued by
another state that is recognized by the Attorney General pursuant to a
reciprocity agreement entered into pursuant to R.C. § 109.69 or a person who
holds a valid concealed handgun license under the circumstances described in
R.C. § 109.69(B) has the same right to carry a concealed handgun in this state
as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license under R.C. § 2923.125
and is subject to the same restrictions that apply to a person who has been
issued a license under that section that is valid at the time in question.
      (5)   A.   A peace officer has the same right to carry a concealed
handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license
under R.C. § 2923.125, provided that the officer when carrying a concealed
handgun under authority of this division is carrying validating identification.
For purposes of reciprocity with other states, a peace officer shall be
considered to be a licensee in this state.
         B.   An active duty member of the armed forces of the United States
who is carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of
successful completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training
requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1) has the same right to carry a
concealed handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun
license under R.C. § 2923.125 and is subject to the same restrictions as
specified in this division (b).
         C.   A tactical medical professional who is qualified to carry
firearms while on duty under R.C. § 109.771 has the same right to carry a
concealed handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun
license under R.C. § 2923.125.
      (6)   A.   A qualified retired peace officer who possesses a retired
peace officer identification card issued pursuant to division (b)(6)B. of this
section and a valid firearms requalification certification issued pursuant to
division (b)(6)C. of this section has the same right to carry a concealed
handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license
under R.C. § 2923.125 and is subject to the same restrictions that apply to a
person who has been issued a license issued under that section that is valid at
the time in question. For purposes of reciprocity with other states, a
qualified retired peace officer who possesses a retired peace officer
identification card issued pursuant to division (b)(6)B. of this section and a
valid firearms requalification certification issued pursuant to division (b)
(6)C. of this section shall be considered to be a licensee in this state.
         B.   1.   Each public agency of this state or of a political
subdivision of this state that is served by one or more peace officers shall
issue a retired peace officer identification card to any person who retired
from service as a peace officer with that agency, if the issuance is in
accordance with the agency’s policies and procedures and if the person, with
respect to the person’s service with that agency, satisfies all of the
following:
               a.   The person retired in good standing from service as a peace
officer with the public agency, and the retirement was not for reasons of
mental instability.
               b.   Before retiring from service as a peace officer with that
agency, the person was authorized to engage in or supervise the prevention,
detection, investigation or prosecution of, or the incarceration of any person
for, any violation of law and the person had statutory powers of arrest.
               c.   At the time of the person’s retirement as a peace officer
with that agency, the person was trained and qualified to carry firearms in the
performance of the peace officer’s duties.
               d.   Before retiring from service as a peace officer with that
agency, the person was regularly employed as a peace officer for an aggregate
of 15 years or more, or, in the alternative, the person retired from service as
a peace officer with that agency, after completing any applicable probationary
period of that service, due to a service-connected disability, as determined by
the agency.
            2.   A retired peace officer identification card issued to a person
under division (b)(6)B.1. of this section shall identify the person by name,
contain a photograph of the person, identify the public agency of this state or
of the political subdivision of this state from which the person retired as a
peace officer and that is issuing the identification card, and specify that the
person retired in good standing from service as a peace officer with the
issuing public agency and satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (b)
(6)B.1.a. to (b)(6)B.1.d. of this section. In addition to the required content
specified in this division, a retired peace officer identification card issued
to a person under division (b)(6)B.1. of this section may include the firearms
requalification certification described in division (b)(6)C. of this section,
and if the identification card includes that certification, the identification
card shall serve as the firearms requalification certification for the retired
peace officer. If the issuing public agency issues credentials to active law
enforcement officers who serve the agency, the agency may comply with division
(b)(6)B.1. of this section by issuing the same credentials to persons who
retired from service as a peace officer with the agency and who satisfy the
criteria set forth in divisions (b)(6)B.1.a. to (b)(6)B.1.d. of this section,
provided that the credentials so issued to retired peace officers are stamped
with the word “RETIRED”.
            3.   A public agency of this state or of a political subdivision of
this state may charge persons who retired from service as a peace officer with
the agency a reasonable fee for issuing to the person a retired peace officer
identification card pursuant to division (b)(6)B.1. of this section.
         C.   1.   If a person retired from service as a peace officer with a
public agency of this state or of a political subdivision of this state and the
person satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (b)(6)B.1.a. to (b)
(6)B.1.d. of this section, the public agency may provide the retired peace
officer with the opportunity to attend a firearms requalification program that
is approved for purposes of firearms requalification required under R.C. §
109.801. The retired peace officer may be required to pay the cost of the
course.
            2.   If a retired peace officer who satisfies the criteria set
forth in divisions (b)(6)B.1.a. to (b)(6)B.1.d. of this section attends a
firearms requalification program that is approved for purposes of firearms
requalification required under R.C. § 109.801, the retired peace officer’s
successful completion of the firearms requalification program requalifies the
retired peace officer for purposes of division (b)(6) of this section for five
years from the date on which the program was successfully completed, and the
requalification is valid during that five-year period. If a retired peace
officer who satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (b)(6)B.1.a. to (b)
(6)B.1.d. of this section satisfactorily completes such a firearms
requalification program, the retired peace officer shall be issued a firearms
requalification certification that identifies the retired peace officer by
name, identifies the entity that taught the program, specifies that the retired
peace officer successfully completed the program, specifies the date on which
the course was successfully completed, and specifies that the requalification
is valid for five years from that date of successful completion. The firearms
requalification certification for a retired peace officer may be included in
the retired peace officer identification card issued to the retired peace
officer under division (b)(6)B. of this section.
            3.   A retired peace officer who attends a firearms requalification
program that is approved for purposes of firearms requalification required
under R.C. § 109.801 may be required to pay the cost of the program.
      (7)   For the purpose of division (b) of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         A.   “Governing body.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 154.01.
         B.   “Government facility of this state or a political subdivision of
this state.” Any of the following:
            1.   A building or part of a building that is owned or leased by
the government of this state or a political subdivision of this state and where
employees of the government of this state or the political subdivision
regularly are present for the purpose of performing their official duties as
employees of the state or political subdivision;
            2.   The office of a Deputy Registrar serving pursuant to R.C.
Chapter 4503 that is used to perform deputy registrar functions.
         C.   "Nonprofit corporation." Means any private organization that is
exempt from federal income taxation pursuant to subsection 501(a) and described
in subsection 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code.
         D.   “Qualified retired peace officer.” A person who satisfies all of
the following:
            1.   The person satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (b)
(6)B.1.a. to (b)(6)B.1.d. of this section.
            2.   The person is not under the influence of alcohol or another
intoxicating or hallucinatory drug or substance.
            3.   The person is not prohibited by federal law from receiving
firearms.
         E.   “Retired peace officer identification card.” An identification
card that is issued pursuant to division (b)(6)B. of this section to a person
who is a retired peace officer.
         F.   “Tactical medical professional.” Has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 109.71.
         G.   “Validating identification.” Means photographic identification
issued by the agency for which an individual serves as a peace officer that
identifies the individual as a peace officer of the agency.
(R.C. § 2923.126)
   (c)   Posting of Signs Prohibiting Possession. Each person, board, or entity
that owns or controls any place or premises identified in R.C. § 2923.126(B) as
a place into which a valid license does not authorize the licensee to carry a
concealed handgun, or a designee of such a person, board, or entity, shall post
in the following one or more conspicuous locations in the premises a sign that
contains a statement in substantially the following form: “Unless otherwise
authorized by law, pursuant to the Ohio Revised Code, no person shall knowingly
possess, have under the person’s control, convey, or attempt to convey a deadly
weapon or dangerous ordnance onto these premises.”
(R.C. § 2923.1212)
§ 678.15 DEFACED FIREARMS.
   (a)   No person shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Change, alter, remove or obliterate the name of the manufacturer,
model, manufacturer’s serial number or other mark of identification on a
firearm.
      (2)   Possess a firearm knowing or having reasonable cause to believe
that the name of the manufacturer, model, manufacturer’s serial number or other
mark of identification on the firearm has been changed, altered, removed or
obliterated.
   (b)   (1)   Whoever violates division (a)(1) of this section is guilty of
defacing identification marks of a firearm. Except as otherwise provided in
this division, defacing identification marks of a firearm is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (a)(1) of this section, defacing
identification marks of a firearm is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (a)(2) of this section is guilty of
possessing a defaced firearm. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
possessing a defaced firearm is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of
division (a)(2) of this section, possessing a defaced firearm is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (c)   Division (a) of this section does not apply to any firearm on which no
manufacturer’s serial number was inscribed at the time of its manufacture.
(R.C. § 2923.201)
CHAPTER 698: PENALTIES AND SENTENCING
Section
698.01   Definitions
698.02   Penalties for misdemeanor
698.03   Imposing sentence for misdemeanor
698.04   Organizational penalties
698.05   Multiple sentences
698.06   Reserved
698.07   Suspension of driver’s license
Cross-reference:
   Administration, enforcement and public service, see
Ch. 608
   Classification of offenses, see §
606.02
   Criminal law jurisdiction, see §
606.05
   Culpable mental states, see §
606.08
   Definitions generally, see §
606.01
   Limitation on prosecutions, see §
606.06
   Obstructing justice, see §
608.07
   Offenses defined, see §
606.03
   Organizational criminal liability, see §
606.09
   Personal accountability for organizational conduct, see §
606.10
   Requirements for criminal liability, see §
606.07
   Rules of construction, see §
606.04
   Sentencing for sexually oriented offenses; sexual predators; registration,
see §
666.99
Statutory reference:
   Burden and degree of proof, see R.C. § 2901.05
   Criteria for probation; conditions for probation, see R.C. § 2951.02
   Definition of “imprisoned”, see R.C. § 1.05
   Degree of offense; charge and verdict; prior conviction, see R.C. § 2945.75
   Payment of costs and expenses on change of venue, see R.C. § 2931.31
   Procedure on change of venue, see R.C. § 2931.29
   Satisfaction of fine; credit for time served, see R.C. § 2947.14
   Transfer of prisoner on change of venue, see R.C. § 2931.30
   Treatment of drug dependent persons in lieu of conviction, see R.C. §
2951.041
   Venue, see R.C. § 2901.12
§ 698.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (a)   “Dangerous offender.” A person who has committed an offense, whose
history, character and condition reveal a substantial risk that he or she will
be a danger to others, and whose conduct has been characterized by a pattern of
repetitive, compulsive or aggressive behavior with heedless indifference to the
consequences.
   (b)   “Repeat offender.” A person who has a history of persistent criminal
activity and whose character and condition reveal a substantial risk that he or
she will commit another offense. It is prima facie evidence that a person is a
“repeat offender” if any of the following applies:
      (1)   Having been convicted of one or more offenses of violence, as
defined in R.C. § 2901.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those offenses, the person commits a subsequent offense of
violence;
      (2)   Having been convicted of one or more sexually oriented offenses, as
defined in R.C. § 2950.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those offenses, the person commits a subsequent sexually
oriented offense;
      (3)   Having been convicted of one or more theft offenses, as defined in
R.C. § 2913.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for one or more
of those offenses, the person commits a subsequent theft offense;
      (4)   Having been convicted of one or more felony drug abuse offenses, as
defined in R.C. § 2925.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those offenses, the person commits a subsequent felony drug
abuse offense;
      (5)   Having been convicted of two or more felonies, and having been
imprisoned pursuant to sentence for any such offense, the person commits a
subsequent offense;
      (6)   Having been convicted of three or more offenses of any type or
degree other than traffic offenses, alcoholic intoxication offenses, or minor
misdemeanors, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for any such
offense, the person commits a subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 2935.36(E))
§ 698.02 PENALTIES FOR MISDEMEANOR.
   (a)   Considerations in Misdemeanor Sentencing.
      (1)   A court that sentences an offender for a misdemeanor or minor
misdemeanor violation of any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, or of any
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to a misdemeanor or minor
misdemeanor violation of a provision of the Ohio Revised Code, shall be guided
by the overriding purposes of misdemeanor sentencing. The overriding purposes
of misdemeanor sentencing are to protect the public from future crime by the
offender and others and to punish the offender. To achieve those purposes, the
sentencing court shall consider the impact of the offense upon the victim and
the need for changing the offender’s behavior, rehabilitating the defender, and
making restitution to the victim of the offense, the public, or the victim and
the public.
      (2)   A sentence imposed for a misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor violation
of an Ohio Revised Code provision or for a violation of a municipal ordinance
that is subject to division (a)(1) of this section shall be reasonably
calculated to achieve the two overriding purposes of misdemeanor sentencing set
forth in division (a)(1) of this section, commensurate with and not demeaning
to the seriousness of the offender’s conduct and its impact upon the victim,
and consistent with sentences imposed for similar offenses committed by similar
offenders.
      (3)   A court that imposes a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor
or minor misdemeanor violation of an Ohio Revised Code provision or for a
violation of a municipal ordinance that is subject to division (a)(1) of this
section shall not base the sentence upon the race, ethnic background, gender or
religion of the offender.
      (4)   Divisions (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section shall not apply to any
offense that is disposed of by a traffic violations bureau of any court
pursuant to Traffic Rule 13 and shall not apply to any violation of any
provision of the Ohio Revised Code that is a minor misdemeanor and that is
disposed of without a court appearance. Divisions (a)(1) to (a)(3) of this
section do not affect any penalties established by the municipality for a
violation of its ordinances that are not substantially equivalent to a
misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor violation of a provision of the Ohio Revised
Code.
(R.C. § 2929.21)
   (b)   Misdemeanor Jail Terms.
      (1)   Except as provided in §§
666.99 or
698.03 of this code or R.C. §§ 2929.22 or 2929.23 or division (b)(5) or (b)(6)
of this section and unless another term is required or authorized pursuant to
law, if the sentencing court imposing a sentence upon an offender for a
misdemeanor elects or is required to impose a jail term on the offender
pursuant to this chapter, the court shall impose a definite jail term that
shall be one of the following:
         A.   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than 180 days;
         B.   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than 90 days;
         C.   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than 60 days;
         D.   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than 30 days.
      (2)   A.   A court that sentences an offender to a jail term under
division (b) of this section may permit the offender to serve the sentence in
intermittent confinement or may authorize a limited release of the offender as
provided in division (d)(2) of this section. The court retains jurisdiction
over every offender sentenced to jail to modify the jail sentence imposed at
any time, but the court shall not reduce any mandatory jail term.
         B.   1.   If a prosecutor, as defined in R.C. § 2935.01, has filed a
notice with the court that the prosecutor wants to be notified about a
particular case and if the court is considering modifying the jail sentence of
the offender in that case, the court shall notify the prosecutor that the court
is considering modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case. The
prosecutor may request a hearing regarding the court’s consideration of
modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case, and, if the
prosecutor requests a hearing, the court shall notify the eligible offender of
the hearing.
            2.   If the prosecutor requests a hearing regarding the court’s
consideration of modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case, the
court shall hold the hearing before considering whether or not to release the
offender from the offender’s jail sentence.
      (3)   If a court sentences an offender to a jail term under division (b)
of this section and the court assigns the offender to a County Jail that has
established a County Jail Industry Program pursuant to R.C. § 5147.30, the
court shall specify, as part of the sentence, whether the offender may be
considered for participation in the program. During the offender’s term in the
County Jail, the court retains jurisdiction to modify its specification
regarding the offender’s participation in the County Jail Industry Program.
      (4)   If a person sentenced to a jail term pursuant to division (b) of
this section, the court may impose as part of the sentence pursuant to R.C. §
2929.28 a reimbursement sanction, and, if the local detention facility in which
the term is to be served is covered by a policy adopted pursuant to R.C. §§
307.93, 341.14, 341.19, 341.21, 341.23, 753.02, 753.04, 753.16, 2301.56 or
2947.19 and 2929.37, both of the following apply:
         A.   The court shall specify both of the following as part of the
sentence:
            1.   If the person is presented with an itemized bill pursuant to
R.C. § 2929.37 for payment of the costs of confinement, the person is required
to pay the bill in accordance with that section.
            2.   If the person does not dispute the bill described in division
(b)(4)A.1. of this section and does not pay the bill by the times specified in
R.C. § 2929.37, the Clerk of the Court may issue a certificate of judgment
against the person as described in that section.
         B.   The sentence automatically includes any certificate of judgment
issued as described in division (b)(4)A.2. of this section.
      (5)   If an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation
of R.C. § 4511.19(B), or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, also
is convicted of or also pleads guilty to a specification of the type described
in R.C. § 2941.1414 and if the court imposes a jail term on the offender for
the underlying offense, the court shall impose upon the offender an additional
definite jail term of not more than six months. The additional jail term shall
not be reduced pursuant to any provision of the Ohio Revised Code. The offender
shall serve the additional jail term consecutively to and prior to the jail
term imposed for the underlying offense and consecutively to any other
mandatory term imposed in relation to the offense.
      (6)   A.   If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
misdemeanor violation of R.C. §§ 2907.23, 2907.24, 2907.241 or 2907.25, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and to a specification of the
type described in R.C. § 2941.1421 and if the court imposes a jail term on the
offender for the misdemeanor violation, the court may impose upon the offender
an additional definite jail term as follows:
            1.   Subject to division (b)(6)A.2. of this section, an additional
definite jail term of not more than 60 days;
            2.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one or more misdemeanor or felony violations of R.C. §§ 2907.22,
2907.23, 2907.24, 2907.241 or 2907.25, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and also was convicted of or pleaded guilty to a
specification of the type described in R.C. § 2941.1421 regarding one or more
of those violations, an additional definite jail term of not more than 120
days.
         B.   In lieu of imposing an additional definite jail term under
division (b)(6)A. of this section, the court may directly impose on the
offender a sanction that requires the offender to wear a real-time processing,
continual tracking electronic monitoring device during the period of time
specified by the court. The period of time specified by the court shall equal
the duration of an additional jail term that the court could have imposed upon
the offender under division (b)(6)A. of this section. A sanction imposed under
this division shall commence on the date specified by the court, provided that
the sanction shall not commence until after the offender has served the jail
term imposed for the misdemeanor violation of R.C. §§ 2907.23, 2907.24,
2907.241 or 2907.25, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and
any residential sanction imposed for the violation under division (d) of this
section or R.C. § 2929.26. A sanction imposed under this division shall be
considered to be a community control sanction for purposes of division (c) of
this section or R.C. § 2929.25, and all provisions of this Code and the Ohio
Revised Code that pertain to community control sanctions shall apply to a
sanction imposed under this division, except to the extent that they would by
their nature be clearly inapplicable. The offender shall pay all costs
associated with a sanction imposed under this division, including the cost of
the use of the monitoring device.
      (7)   If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor
violation of R.C. § 2903.13 and also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
specification of the type described in R.C. § 2941.1423 that charges that the
victim of the violation was a woman whom the offender knew was pregnant at the
time of the violation, the court shall impose on the offender a mandatory jail
term that is a definite term of at least 30 days.
      (8)   If a court sentences an offender to a jail term under this division
(b), the sentencing court retains jurisdiction over the offender and the jail
term. Upon motion of either party or upon the court’s own motion, the court, in
the court’s sole discretion and as the circumstances warrant, may substitute
one or more community control sanctions under division (d) or (e) of this
section for any jail days that are not mandatory jail days.
(R.C. § 2929.24)
   (c)   Misdemeanor Community Control Sanctions.
      (1)   A.   Except as provided in §§ 666.99 and 698.03 of this code or
R.C. §§ 2929.22 and 2929.23 or when a jail term is required by law, in
sentencing an offender for a misdemeanor, other than a minor misdemeanor, the
sentencing court may do either of the following:
            1.   Directly impose a sentence that consists of one or more
community control sanctions authorized by divisions (d), (e) or (f) of this
section. The court may impose any other conditions of release under a community
control sanction that the court considers appropriate. If the court imposes a
jail term upon the offender, the court may impose any community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions in addition to the jail
term.
            2.   Impose a jail term under division (b) of this section from the
range of jail terms authorized under that division for the offense, suspend all
or a portion of the jail term imposed, and place the offender under a community
control sanction or combination of community control sanctions authorized under
divisions (d), (e) or (f) of this section.
         B.   The duration of all community control sanctions imposed upon an
offender and in effect for an offender at any time shall not exceed five years.
         C.   At sentencing, if a court directly imposes a community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions pursuant to division (c)
(1)A.1. of this section, the court shall state the duration of the community
control sanctions imposed and shall notify the offender that if any of the
conditions of the community control sanctions are violated the court may do any
of the following:
            1.   Impose a longer time under the same community control sanction
if the total time under all of the offender’s community control sanctions does
not exceed the five-year limit specified in division (c)(1)B. of this section;
            2.   Impose a more restrictive community control sanction under
division (d), (e) or (f) of this section, but the court is not required to
impose any particular sanction or sanctions;
            3.   Impose a definite jail term from the range of jail terms
authorized for the offense under division (b) of this section.
      (2)   If a court sentences an offender to any community control sanction
or combination of community control sanctions pursuant to division (c)(1)A.1.
of this section, the sentencing court retains jurisdiction over the offender
and the period of community control for the duration of the period of community
control. Upon the motion of either party or on the court’s own motion, the
court, in the court’s sole discretion and as the circumstances warrant, may
modify the community control sanctions or conditions of release previously
imposed, substitute a community control sanction or condition of release for
another community control sanction or condition of release previously imposed,
or impose an additional community control sanction or condition of release.
      (3)   A.   If a court sentences an offender to any community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions authorized under
division (d), (e) or (f) of this section, the court shall place the offender
under the general control and supervision of the court or of a Department of
Probation in the jurisdiction that serves the court for purposes of reporting
to the court a violation of any of the conditions of the sanctions imposed. If
the offender resides in another jurisdiction and a department of probation has
been established to serve the municipal court or county court in that
jurisdiction, the sentencing court may request the municipal court or the
county court to receive the offender into the general control and supervision
of that department of probation for purposes of reporting to the sentencing
court a violation of any of the conditions of the sanctions imposed. The
sentencing court retains jurisdiction over any offender whom it sentences for
the duration of the sanction or sanctions imposed.
         B.   The sentencing court shall require as a condition of any
community control sanction that the offender abide by the law and not leave the
state without the permission of the court or the offender’s probation officer.
In the interests of doing justice, rehabilitating the offender, and ensuring
the offender’s good behavior, the court may impose additional requirements on
the offender. The offender’s compliance with the additional requirements also
shall be a condition of the community control sanction imposed upon the
offender.
      (4)   A.   If the court imposing sentence upon an offender sentences the
offender to any community control sanction or combination of community control
sanctions authorized under division (d), (e) or (f) of this section, and the
offender violates any of the conditions of the sanctions, the public or private
person or entity that supervises or administers the program or activity that
comprises the sanction shall report the violation directly to the sentencing
court or to the Department of Probation or probation officer with general
control and supervision over the offender. If the public or private person or
entity reports the violation to the Department of Probation or probation
officer, the department or officer shall report the violation to the sentencing
court.
         B.   If an offender violates any condition of a community control
sanction, the sentencing court may impose upon the violator one or more of the
following penalties:
            1.   A longer time under the same community control sanction if the
total time under all of the community control sanctions imposed on the violator
does not exceed the five-year limit specified in division (c)(1)B. of this
section;
            2.   A more restrictive community control sanction;
            3.   A combination of community control sanctions, including a jail
term.
         C.   If an offender was acting pursuant to R.C. § 2925.11(B)(2)(b), or
any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and in so doing violated the
conditions of a community control sanction based on a minor drug possession
offense, as defined in R.C. § 2925.11, the sentencing court may consider the
offender’s conduct in seeking or obtaining medical assistance for another in
good faith or for self or may consider the offender being the subject of
another person seeking or obtaining medical assistance in accordance with that
division as a mitigating factor before imposing any of the penalties described
in division (c)(4)B. of this section.
         D.   If the court imposes a jail term upon a violator pursuant to
division (c)(4)B. of this section, the total time spent in jail for the
misdemeanor offense and the violation of a condition of the community control
sanction shall not exceed the maximum jail term available for the offense for
which the sanction that was violated was imposed. The court may reduce the
longer period of time that the violator is required to spend under the longer
sanction or the more restrictive sanction imposed under division (c)(4)B. of
this section by all or part of the time the violator successfully spent under
the sanction that was initially imposed.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if an offender, for
a significant period of time, fulfills the conditions of a community control
sanction imposed pursuant to division (d), (e) or (f) of this section in an
exemplary manner, the court may reduce the period of time under the community
control sanction or impose a less restrictive community control sanction.
Fulfilling the conditions of a community control sanction does not relieve the
offender of a duty to make restitution under division (f) of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.25)
   (d)   Community Residential Sanction.
      (1)   Except when a mandatory jail term is required by law, the court
imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a minor misdemeanor, may
impose upon the offender any community residential sanction or combination of
community residential sanctions under this division (d). Community residential
sanctions include but are not limited to the following:
         A.   A term of up to 180 days in a halfway house or a term in a
halfway house not to exceed the longest jail term available for the offense,
whichever is shorter, if the political subdivision that would have
responsibility for paying the costs of confining the offender in a jail has
entered into a contract with the halfway house for use of the facility for
misdemeanor offenders;
         B.   If the offender is an eligible offender, as defined in R.C. §
307.932, a term in a community alternative sentencing center or district
community alternative sentencing center established and operated in accordance
with that section, in the circumstances specified in that section, with one of
the conditions of the sanction being that the offender successfully complete
the portion of the sentence to be served in the center.
      (2)   A sentence to a community residential sanction under division (d)
(1)B. of this section shall be in accordance with R.C. § 307.932. In all other
cases, the court that sentences an offender to a community residential sanction
under this division (d) may do either or both of the following:
         A.   Permit the offender to serve the offender’s sentence in
intermittent confinement, overnight, on weekends or at any other time or times
that will allow the offender to continue at the offender’s occupation or care
for the offender’s family;
         B.   Authorize the offender to be released so that the offender may
seek or maintain employment, receive education or training, receive treatment,
perform community service, or otherwise fulfill an obligation imposed by law or
by the court. A release pursuant to this division shall be only for the
duration of time that is needed to fulfill the purpose of the release and for
travel that reasonably is necessary to fulfill the purposes of release.
      (3)   The court may order that a reasonable portion of the income earned
by the offender upon a release pursuant to division (d)(2) of this section be
applied to any financial sanction imposed under division (f) of this section.
      (4)   No court shall sentence any person to a prison term for a
misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor, or to a jail term for a minor misdemeanor.
      (5)   If a court sentences a person who has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a misdemeanor to a community residential sanction as described in
division (d)(1) of this section, at the time of reception and at other times
the person in charge of the operation of the halfway house, community
alternative sentencing center, district community alternative sentencing
center, or other place at which the offender will serve the residential
sanction determines to be appropriate, the person in charge of the operation of
the halfway house, community alternative sentencing center, district community
alternative sentencing center, or other place may cause the convicted offender
to be examined and tested for tuberculosis, HIV infection, hepatitis, including
but not limited to hepatitis A, B and C, and other contagious diseases. The
person in charge of the operation of the halfway house, community alternative
sentencing center, district community alternative sentencing center, or other
place at which the offender will serve the residential sanction may cause a
convicted offender in the halfway house, community alternative sentencing
center, district community alternative sentencing center, or other place who
refuses to be tested or treated for tuberculosis, HIV infection, hepatitis,
including but not limited to hepatitis A, B and C, or another contagious
disease to be tested and treated involuntarily.
      (6)   The municipality may enter into a contract with a halfway house for
use of the halfway house to house misdemeanor offenders under a sanction
imposed under division (d)(1)A. of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.26)
   (e)   Nonresidential Sanction Where Jail Term Is Not Mandatory.
      (1)   Except when a mandatory jail term is required by law, the court
imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a minor misdemeanor, may
impose upon the offender any nonresidential sanction or combination of
nonresidential sanctions authorized under this division. Nonresidential
sanctions include but are not limited to the following:
         A.   A term of day reporting;
         B.   A term of house arrest with electronic monitoring or continuous
alcohol monitoring or both electronic monitoring and continuous alcohol
monitoring, a term of electronic monitoring or continuous alcohol monitoring
without house arrest, or a term of house arrest without electronic monitoring
or continuous alcohol monitoring;
         C.   A term of community service of up to 500 hours for misdemeanor of
the first degree or 200 hours for a misdemeanor of the second, third or fourth
degree;
         D.   A term in a drug treatment program with a level of security for
the offender as determined necessary by the court;
         E.   A term of intensive probation supervision;
         F.   A term of basic probation supervision;
         G.   A term of monitored time;
         H.   A term of drug and alcohol use monitoring, including random drug
testing;
         I.   A curfew term;
         J.   A requirement that the offender obtain employment;
         K.   A requirement that the offender obtain education or training;
         L.   Provided the court obtains the prior approval of the victim, a
requirement that the offender participate in victim-offender mediation;
         M.   If authorized by law, suspension of the offender’s privilege to
operate a motor vehicle, immobilization or forfeiture of the offender’s motor
vehicle, a requirement that the offender obtain a valid motor vehicle
operator’s license, or any other related sanction;
         N.   A requirement that the offender obtain counseling if the offense
is a violation of R.C. § 2919.25 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance or a violation of R.C. § 2903.13 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance involving a person who was a family or household member at
the time of the violation, if the offender committed the offense in the
vicinity of one or more children who are not victims of the offense, and if the
offender or the victim of the offense is a parent, guardian, custodian or
person in loco parentis of one or more of those children. This division does
not limit the court in requiring that the offender obtain counseling for any
offense or in any circumstance not specified in this division.
      (2)   If the court imposes a term of community service pursuant to
division (e)(1)C. of this section, the offender may request that the court
modify the sentence to authorize the offender to make a reasonable
contribution, as determined by the court, to the general fund of the county,
municipality, or other local entity that provides funding to the court. The
court may grant the request if the offender demonstrates a change in
circumstances from the date the court imposes the sentence or that the
modification would otherwise be in the interests of justice. If the court
grants the request, the offender shall make a reasonable contribution to the
court, and the clerk of the court shall deposit that contribution into the
general fund of the county, municipality, or other local entity that provides
funding to the court. If more than one entity provides funding to the court,
the clerk shall deposit a percentage of the reasonable contribution equal to
the percentage of funding the entity provides to the court in that entity’s
general fund.
      (3)   In addition to the sanctions authorized under division (e)(1) of
this section, the court imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a
minor misdemeanor, upon an offender who is not required to serve a mandatory
jail term may impose any other sanction that is intended to discourage the
offender or other persons from committing a similar offense if the sanction is
reasonably related to the overriding purposes and principles of misdemeanor
sentencing.
      (4)   The court imposing a sentence for a minor misdemeanor may impose a
term of community service in lieu of all or part of a fine. The term of
community service imposed for a minor misdemeanor shall not exceed 30 hours.
After imposing a term of community service, the court may modify the sentence
to authorize a reasonable contribution, as determined by the court, to the
appropriate general fund as provided in division (e)(2) of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.27)
   (f)   Financial Sanctions.
      (1)   In addition to imposing court costs pursuant to R.C. § 2947.23, the
court imposing a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor, including a minor
misdemeanor, may sentence the offender to any financial sanction or combination
of financial sanctions authorized under this division (f). If the court in its
discretion imposes one or more financial sanctions, the financial sanctions
that may be imposed pursuant to this section include but are not limited to the
following:
         A.   Restitution.
            1.   Unless the misdemeanor offense is a minor misdemeanor or could
be disposed of by the Traffic Violations Bureau serving the court under Traffic
Rule 13, restitution by the offender to the victim of the offender’s crime or
any survivor of the victim, in an amount based upon the victim’s economic loss.
The court may not impose restitution as a sanction pursuant to this division if
the offense is a minor misdemeanor or could be disposed of by the Traffic
Violations Bureau serving the court under Traffic Rule 13. If the court
requires restitution, the court shall order that the restitution be made to the
victim in open court or to the adult probation department that serves the
jurisdiction or the Clerk of the Court on behalf of the victim.
            2.   If the court imposes restitution, the court shall determine
the amount of restitution to be paid by the offender. If the court imposes
restitution, the court may base the amount of restitution it orders on an
amount recommended by the victim, the offender, a presentence investigation
report, estimates or receipts indicating the cost of repairing or replacing
property, and other information, provided that the amount the court orders as
restitution shall not exceed the amount of economic loss suffered by the victim
as a direct and proximate result of the commission of the offense. If the court
imposes restitution for the cost of accounting or auditing done to determine
the extent of economic loss, the court may order restitution for any amount of
the victim's costs of accounting or auditing provided that the amount of
restitution is reasonable and does not exceed the value of property or services
stolen or damaged as a result of the offense. If the court decides to impose
restitution, the court shall hold an evidentiary hearing on restitution if the
offender, victim, or survivor disputes the amount of restitution. If the court
holds an evidentiary hearing, at the hearing the victim or survivor has the
burden to prove by a preponderance of the evidence the amount of restitution
sought from the offender.
            3.   All restitution payments shall be credited against any
recovery of economic loss in a civil action brought by the victim or any
survivor of the victim against the offender. No person may introduce evidence
of an award of restitution under this section in a civil action for purposes of
imposing liability against an insurer under R.C. § 3937.18.
            4.   If the court imposes restitution, the court may order that the
offender pay a surcharge, of not more than 5% of the amount of the restitution
otherwise ordered, to the entity responsible for collecting and processing
restitution payments.
            5.   The victim or survivor of the victim may request that the
prosecutor in the case file a motion, or the offender may file a motion, for
modification of the payment terms of any restitution ordered. If the court
grants the motion, it may modify the payment terms as it determines
appropriate.
         B.   Fines. A fine of the type described in divisions (f)(1)B.1. and
(f)(1)B.2. of this section payable to the appropriate entity as required by
law:
            1.   A fine in the following amount:
               a.   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than
$1,000;
               b.   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than $750;
               c.   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than $500;
               d.   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than $250;
               e.   For a minor misdemeanor, not more than $150.
            2.   A state fine or cost as defined in R.C. § 2949.111.
         C.   Reimbursement.
            1.   Reimbursement by the offender of any or all of the costs of
sanctions incurred by the government, including but not limited to the
following:
               a.   All or part of the costs of implementing any community
control sanction, including a supervision fee under R.C. § 2951.021;
               b.   All or part of the costs of confinement in a jail or other
residential facility, including but not limited to a per diem fee for room and
board, the costs of medical and dental treatment, and the costs of repairing
property damaged by the offender while confined;
               c.   All or part of the cost of purchasing and using an
immobilizing or disabling device, including a certified ignition interlock
device, or a remote alcohol monitoring device that a court orders an offender
to use under R.C. § 4510.13.
            2.   The amount of reimbursement under division (f)(1)C.1. of this
section shall not exceed the total amount of reimbursement the offender is able
to pay and shall not exceed the actual cost of the sanctions. The court may
collect any amount of reimbursement the offender is required to pay under that
division. If the court does not order reimbursement under that division,
confinement costs may be assessed pursuant to a repayment policy adopted under
R.C. § 2929.37. In addition, the offender may be required to pay the fees
specified in R.C. § 2929.38 in accordance with that section.   
      (2)   A.   If the court determines a hearing is necessary, the court may
hold a hearing to determine whether the offender is able to pay the financial
sanction imposed pursuant to this division (f) or court costs or is likely in
the future to be able to pay the sanction or costs.
         B.   If the court determines that the offender is indigent and unable
to pay the financial sanction or court costs, the court shall consider imposing
and may impose a term of community service under division (e)(1) of this
section in lieu of imposing a financial sanction or court costs. If the court
does not determine that the offender is indigent, the court may impose a term
of community service under division (e)(1) of this section in lieu of or in
addition to imposing a financial sanction under this division (f) and in
addition to imposing court costs. The court may order community service for a
minor misdemeanor pursuant to division (e)(4) of this section in lieu of or in
addition to imposing a financial sanction under this section and in addition to
imposing court costs. If a person fails to pay a financial sanction or court
costs, the court may order community service in lieu of the financial sanction
or court costs.
      (3)   A.   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed upon the
offender pursuant to division (f)(1)C. of this section to pay the costs
incurred by a county pursuant to any sanction imposed under division (d), (e)
or (f) of this section or in operating a facility used to confine offenders
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (d) of this section to the County
Treasurer. The County Treasurer shall deposit the reimbursements in the
county’s General Fund. The county shall use the amounts deposited in the Fund
to pay the costs incurred by the county pursuant to any sanction imposed under
division (d), (e) or (f) of this section or in operating a facility used to
confine offenders pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (d) of this
section.
         B.   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed upon the offender
pursuant to division (f)(1)C. of this section to pay the costs incurred by a
municipal corporation pursuant to any sanction imposed under division (d), (e)
or (f) of this section or in operating a facility used to confine offenders
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (d) of this section to the
Treasurer of the municipal corporation. The Treasurer shall deposit the
reimbursements in the municipal corporation’s General Fund. The municipal
corporation shall use the amounts deposited in the Fund to pay the costs
incurred by the municipal corporation pursuant to any sanction imposed under
division (d), (e) or (f) of this section or in operating a facility used to
confine offenders pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (d) of this
section.
         C.   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed pursuant to
division (f)(1)C. of this section for the costs incurred by a private provider
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (d), (e) or (f) of this section
to the provider.
      (4)   In addition to any other fine that is or may be imposed under this
division (f), the court imposing sentence upon an offender for misdemeanor
domestic violence or menacing by stalking may impose a fine of not less than
$70 nor more than $500, which shall be transmitted to the Treasurer of Ohio to
be credited to the address confidentiality program fund created by R.C. §
111.48.
      (5)   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this division (f)(5), a
financial sanction imposed under division (f)(1) of this section is a judgment
in favor of the state or the political subdivision that operates the court that
imposed the financial sanction, and the offender subject to the financial
sanction is the judgment debtor. A financial sanction of reimbursement imposed
pursuant to division (f)(1)C.1.a. of this section upon an offender is a
judgment in favor of the entity administering the community control sanction,
and the offender subject to the financial sanction is the judgment debtor. A
financial sanction of reimbursement imposed pursuant to division (f)(1)C.1.b.
of this section upon an offender confined in a jail or other residential
facility is a judgment in favor of the entity operating the jail or other
residential facility, and the offender subject to the financial sanction is the
judgment debtor. A financial sanction of restitution imposed pursuant to
division (f)(1)A. of this section is an order in favor of the victim of the
offender’s criminal act that can be collected through a certificate of judgment
as described in division (f)(5)B.1. of this section, through execution as
described in division (f)(5)B.2. of this section or through an order as
described in division (f)(5)B.3. of this section and the offender shall be
considered for purposes of the collection as a judgment debtor.
         B.   Once a financial sanction is imposed as a judgment or order under
this division, the victim, private provider, state or political subdivision may
do any of the following:
            1.   Obtain from the Clerk of the court in which the judgment was
entered a certificate of judgment that shall be in the same manner and form as
a certificate of judgment issued in a civil action;
            2.   Obtain execution of the judgment or order through any
available procedure, including any of the procedures identified in R.C. §
2929.18(D)(1) and (D)(2) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
            3.   Obtain an order for the assignment of wages of the judgment
debtor under R.C. § 1321.33 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (6)   The civil remedies authorized under division (f)(5) of this section
for the collection of the financial sanction supplement, but do not preclude,
enforcement of the criminal sentence.
      (7)   Each court imposing a financial sanction upon an offender under
this division (f) may designate the Clerk of the Court or another person to
collect the financial sanction. The Clerk, or another person authorized by law
or the court to collect the financial sanction may do the following:
         A.   Enter into contracts with one or more public agencies or private
vendors for the collection of amounts due under the sanction. Before entering
into a contract for the collection of amounts due from an offender pursuant to
any financial sanction imposed pursuant to this division (f), a court shall
comply with R.C. §§ 307.86 to 307.92.
         B.   Permit payment of all or any portion of the sanction in
installments, by financial transaction device if the court is a county court or
a municipal court operated by a county, or by any other reasonable method, in
any time, and on any terms that the court considers just, except that the
maximum time permitted for payment shall not exceed five years. If the court is
a county court or a municipal court operated by a county, the acceptance of
payments by any financial transaction device shall be governed by the policy
adopted by the Board of County Commissioners of the county pursuant to R.C. §
301.28. If the court is a municipal court not operated by a county, the Clerk
may pay any fee associated with processing an electronic transfer out of public
money or may charge the fee to the offender.
         C.   To defray administrative costs, charge a reasonable fee to an
offender who elects a payment plan rather than a lump sum payment of any
financial sanction.
      (8)   No financial sanction imposed under this division (f) shall
preclude a victim from bringing a civil action against the offender.
(R.C. § 2929.28)
§ 698.03 IMPOSING SENTENCE FOR MISDEMEANOR.
   (a)   (1)   Unless a mandatory jail term is required to be imposed by R.C. §
1547.99(G), 4510.14(B) or 4511.19(G), or any other provision of the Revised
Code, or any municipal ordinance, a court that imposes a sentence under this
chapter upon an offender for a misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor has discretion
to determine the most effective way to achieve the purposes and principles of
sentencing set forth in §
698.02.
      (2)   Unless a specific sanction is required to be imposed or is
precluded from being imposed by the section setting forth an offense or the
penalty for an offense or by any provision of §§
666.99 or
698.02 of this code or R.C. § 2929.23 to 2929.28, a court that imposes a
sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor may impose on the offender any
sanction or combination of sanctions under §
698.02(b) to (f). The court shall not impose a sentence that imposes an
unnecessary burden on local government resources.
   (b)   (1)   In determining the appropriate sentence for a misdemeanor, the
court shall consider all of the following factors:
         A.   The nature and circumstances of the offense or offenses;
         B.   Whether the circumstances regarding the offender and the offense
or offenses indicate that the offender has a history of persistent criminal
activity and that the offender’s character and condition reveal a substantial
risk that the offender will commit another offense;
         C.   Whether the circumstances regarding the offender and the offense
or offenses indicate that the offender’s history, character and condition
reveal a substantial risk that the offender will be a danger to others and that
the offender’s conduct has been characterized by a pattern of repetitive,
compulsive or aggressive behavior with heedless indifference to the
consequences;
         D.   Whether the victim’s youth, age, disability or other factor made
the victim particularly vulnerable to the offense or made the impact of the
offense more serious;
         E.   Whether the offender is likely to commit future crimes in
general, in addition to the circumstances described in divisions (b)(1)B. and
(b)(1)C. of this section;
         F.   Whether the offender has an emotional, mental, or physical
condition that is traceable to the offender’s service in the armed forces of
the United States and that was a contributing factor in the offender’s
commission of the offense or offenses;
         G.   The offender’s military service record.
      (2)   In determining the appropriate sentence for a misdemeanor, in
addition to complying with division (b)(1) of this section, the court may
consider any other factors that are relevant to achieving the purposes and
principles of sentencing set forth in §
698.02(a).
   (c)   Before imposing a jail term as a sentence for a misdemeanor, a court
shall consider the appropriateness of imposing a community control sanction or
a combination of community control sanctions under §
698.02(c), (d), (e) and (f). A court may impose the longest jail term
authorized under §
698.02(b) only upon offenders who commit the worst forms of the offense or upon
offenders whose conduct and response to prior sanctions for prior offenses
demonstrate that the imposition of the longest jail term is necessary to deter
the offender from committing a future crime.
   (d)   (1)   A sentencing court shall consider any relevant oral or written
statement made by the victim, the defendant, the defense attorney or the
prosecuting authority regarding sentencing for a misdemeanor. This division
does not create any rights to notice other than those rights authorized by R.C.
Chapter 2930.
      (2)   At the time of sentencing for a misdemeanor or as soon as possible
after sentencing, the court shall notify the victim of the offense of the
victim’s right to file an application for an award of reparations pursuant to
R.C. § 2743.51 to 2743.72.
(R.C. § 2929.22)
§ 698.04 ORGANIZATIONAL PENALTIES.
   (a)   Regardless of the other penalties provided in §
698.02, an organization convicted of an offense pursuant to §
606.09 shall be fined by the court as follows:
      (1)   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than $5,000;
      (2)   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than $4,000;
      (3)   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than $3,000;
      (4)   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than $2,000;
      (5)   For a minor misdemeanor, not more than $1,000;
      (6)   For a misdemeanor not specifically classified, not more than
$2,000;
      (7)   For a minor misdemeanor not specifically classified, not more than
$1,000.
   (b)   When an organization is convicted of an offense not specifically
classified, and the section defining the offense or penalty plainly indicates a
purpose to impose the penalty provided for violation upon organizations, then
that penalty shall be imposed in lieu of the penalty provided in this section.
   (c)   When an organization is convicted of an offense not specifically
classified, and the penalty provided includes a higher fine than that provided
in this section, then the penalty imposed shall be pursuant to the penalty
provided for violation of the section defining the offense.
   (d)   This section does not prevent the imposition of available civil
sanctions against an organization convicted of an offense pursuant to §
606.09, either in addition to or in lieu of a fine imposed pursuant to this
section.
(R.C. § 2929.31)
§ 698.05 MULTIPLE SENTENCES.
   (a)   Except as provided in division (b) of this section, R.C. § 2929.14(C)
or 2971.03(D) or (E), a prison term, jail term or sentence of imprisonment
shall be served concurrently with any other prison term, jail term or sentence
of imprisonment imposed by a court of this municipality, the state, another
state or the United States. Except as provided in division (b)(2) of this
section, a jail term or sentence of imprisonment for misdemeanor shall be
served concurrently with a prison term or sentence of imprisonment for felony
served in a state or federal correctional institution.
   (b)   (1)   A jail term or sentence of imprisonment for a misdemeanor shall
be served consecutively to any other prison term, jail term or sentence of
imprisonment when the trial court specifies that it is to be served
consecutively or when it is imposed for a misdemeanor violation of R.C. §
2907.322, 2921.34 or 2923.131. When consecutive sentences are imposed for
misdemeanors under this division, the term to be served is the aggregate of the
consecutive terms imposed, except that the aggregate term to be served shall
not exceed 18 months.
      (2)   A jail term or sentence of imprisonment imposed for a misdemeanor
violation of R.C. § 4510.14, 4510.16, 4510.21 or 4511.19, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be served consecutively to a prison term
that is imposed for a felony violation of R.C. § 2903.06, 2903.07, 2903.08 or
4511.19 or a felony violation of R.C. § 2903.04 involving the operation of a
motor vehicle by the offender and that is served in a state correctional
institution when the trial court specifies that it is to be served
consecutively. When consecutive jail terms or sentences of imprisonment and
prison terms are imposed for one or more misdemeanors and one or more felonies
under this division, the term to be served is the aggregate of the consecutive
terms imposed, and the offender shall serve all terms imposed for a felony
before serving any term imposed for a misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2929.41)
§ 698.06 RESERVED.
§ 698.07 SUSPENSION OF DRIVER’S LICENSE.
   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 4510.07 or in any other provision of
the Revised Code, whenever an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
violation of any provision of this code of ordinances that is substantially
equivalent to a provision of the Revised Code, and a court is permitted or
required to suspend a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit for a violation of that provision, a court, in addition to any other
penalties authorized by law, may suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privileges for the period
of time the court determines appropriate, but the period of suspension imposed
for the violation of the provision of this code of ordinances shall not exceed
the period of suspension that is permitted or required to be imposed for the
violation of the provision of the Revised Code to which the provision of this
code of ordinances is substantially equivalent.
(R.C. § 4510.05)
PART EIGHT: BUSINESS REGULATION AND TAXATION CODE
   TITLE TWO -BUSINESS REGULATION
      
CHAP. 804.   AMUSEMENT ARCADES AND DEVICES.
      
CHAP. 808.   CABLE TELEVISION.
      
CHAP. 860.   CANVASSERS, PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS.
   TITLE FOUR - TAXATION
      
CHAP. 880.   INCOME TAXES
TITLE TWO: BUSINESS REGULATION
CHAPTER 804: AMUSEMENT ARCADES AND DEVICES
Section
804.01   Definitions.
804.02   Issuance of licenses; renewals.
804.03   Rules and regulations for issuance of licenses and conduct of
establishments; qualifications of applicants; authority of Mayor.
804.04   License and registration fees.
804.05   Suspension, revocation or failure to renew licenses; appeals.
804.06   General prohibitions for arcades.
804.99   Penalty.
Cross-reference:
   Bingo, see §§
630.06 et seq.
Statutory reference:
   Coin machine defined, see R.C. § 2913.01
§ 804.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, unless the context clearly requires a different
meaning:
   (a)   “Amusement arcade.” Any place of business at which five or more
mechanical or electrically operated amusement devices are located for the use
or entertainment of persons patronizing the place of business.
   (b)   “Exhibitor.” Any person owning and exhibiting, contracting or
permitting any mechanical or electrically operated amusement device, as defined
in division (d) hereof, to be installed, used and exhibited in his or her own
place of business irrespective of the ownership of such device.
   (c)   “Good moral character.” Not having been convicted of a crime involving
moral turpitude within the five years immediately preceding the date of an
application for a license to exhibit mechanical or electrically operated
amusement devices.
   (d)   “Mechanical or electrically operated amusement device.” A machine,
device or instrument which, upon the insertion of a coin, token or slug,
operates or may be operated for use as a game, a contest of skill or an
amusement of any description and which in no way tends to encourage gambling
and which in no way violates Chapter 630 of these codified ordinances. This
definition is not intended to and does not include merchandise vending
machines.
   (e)   “Owner” Any person having title to any mechanical or electrically
operated amusement device or amusement arcade as defined in this section.
(Ord. 9-83, passed 4-11-1983)
§ 804.02 ISSUANCE OF LICENSES; RENEWALS.
   (a)   The Mayor or his or her designee is hereby authorized to issue
licenses to owners and exhibitors of coin-operated mechanical or electrically
operated amusement devices, upon compliance with the requirements set forth in
this chapter, including coin-operated pool or billiard tables, commonly known
as “skill pool” tables. No such license shall be issued to any applicant unless
the Mayor or his or her designee has found that such applicant is of good moral
character. The lack of such qualification on the part of the applicant shall be
deemed grounds for denial or revocation of such license by the Mayor or his or
her designee.
   (b)   Licenses may be renewed for one year upon reapplication and payment of
the fees established in §
804.04 and upon a finding of past compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 9-83, passed 4-11-1983)
§ 804.03 RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR ISSUANCE OF LICENSES AND CONDUCT OF
ESTABLISHMENTS; QUALIFICATIONS OF APPLICANTS; AUTHORITY OF MAYOR.
   (a)   The Mayor or his or her designee is hereby authorized to establish,
adopt and enforce, or cause to be enforced, such rules and regulations
governing the issuance of licenses and registrations required by this chapter
and governing the conduct of the establishment where mechanical amusement
devices are exhibited, as he or she may deem reasonable and necessary and not
inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter.
   (b)   Applicants for licenses under this chapter shall be of good moral
character. The Mayor or his or her designee shall adopt and enforce rules and
regulations requiring an affidavit to be submitted by each applicant relative
to any arrest or conviction of such applicant for any crime involving morals or
moral turpitude within a period of five years immediately preceding the date of
the application.
(Ord. 9-83, passed 4-11-1983)
§ 804.04 LICENSE AND REGISTRATION FEES.
   The fees for licenses and registrations shall be paid at the time of their
issuance, shall be valid for one year and shall be as follows:
   (a)   For mechanical or electrically operated amusement devices: $100 each
per year; and
   (b)   For amusement arcades: $500 per year for each place of business. Such
fee shall be in addition to and independent of machine or exhibitor’s fees.
(Ord. 9-83, passed 4-11-1983)
§ 804.05 SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OR FAILURE TO RENEW LICENSES; APPEALS.
   (a)   The Mayor may suspend, revoke or fail to renew any license issued
pursuant to this chapter upon being satisfied that the licensee has violated
any of the terms of this chapter or any of the rules and regulations
established and adopted by the Mayor or his or her designee as provided in §
804.03.
   (b)   The decision of the Mayor may be appealed pursuant to the provisions
of R.C. Ch. 2506.
(Ord. 9-83, passed 4-11-1983)
§ 804.06 GENERAL PROHIBITIONS FOR ARCADES.
   No owner or operator of any amusement arcade or place of business where
coin-operated billiard tables or mechanical or electrically operated amusement
devices are located shall:
   (a)   Permit any indecent, immoral or disorderly conduct in or about the
premises;
   (b)   Permit an intoxicated person to loiter on or about the premises;
   (c)   Permit the premises to become overcrowded so as to constitute a hazard
to the health or safety of persons therein or to be in violation of any of the
village’s fire, health or sanitation codes;
   (d)   Permit the premises to be operated in such a manner as to constitute a
public nuisance; or
   (e)   Permit any violation of any ordinance of the village or statute of the
state, for which a criminal penalty may be invoked, to take place on the
premises.
(Ord. 9-83, passed 4-11-1983)
§ 804.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree for each offense. A separate offense shall be
deemed committed each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 808: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
808.01   Short title.
808.02   Definitions.
808.03   Grant of authority.
808.04   Compliance with applicable laws and ordinances.
808.05   Franchise territory.
808.06   Franchise term; expiration.
808.07   Franchises to be nonexclusive.
808.08   Written notice required.
808.09   Repair of streets and property.
808.10   Construction and use of facilities.
808.11   Indemnification of village.
808.12   Compliance with applicable laws.
808.13   Notice of rate increases.
808.14   Liability insurance.
808.15   Performance standards.
808.16   Subscriber complaints.
808.17   Transfer or assignment of franchise.
808.18   Franchise renewal.
808.19   Revocation of franchise.
808.20   Revocation procedures.
808.21   Removal upon revocation.
808.22   Force majeure.
808.23   Maps.
808.24   Service area.
808.25   Unauthorized connections or modifications.
808.26   Franchise fee payments.
808.27   Separability.
808.99   Penalty.
Cross-reference:
   “Property” defined to include cable television service, see §
606.01(o)
   “Services” defined to include cable television service, see §
642.01(a), (r)
   Theft of services, see §
672.01
   Uses of rights-of-way, see
Ch. 1477
   Wireless telecommunications facilities, see
Ch. 1478
Statutory reference:
   Cable television contracts, see R.C. §§ 505.90 et seq.
   Interrupting or impairing television service, see R.C. § 2909.04
   Regulation of political broadcasts, see R.C. § 3599.09
§ 808.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “cable television
franchise ordinance”. Within this chapter, it shall also be referred to as “the
franchise”.
(Ord. 9-97, passed 8-11-1997)
§ 808.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meaning given herein. When not inconsistent with the
context, words used in the present tense include the future tense, words in the
plural number include the singular number, and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The words “shall” and “will” are mandatory and “may”
is permissive. Words not defined shall be given their common and ordinary
meaning.
   (a)   “Basic service.” Any service tier which includes the retransmission of
local television broadcast signals.
   (b)   “Cable television system” or “system.” A facility, consisting of a set
of closed transmission paths and associated signal generation, reception and
control equipment, that is designed to provide cable service and which is
provided to multiple subscribers within the village. Such term does not
include:
      (1)   A facility that serves only to retransmit the television signals of
one or more television broadcast stations;
      (2)   A facility that serves only subscribers in one or more multiple
unit dwellings, unless such facility or facilities use any public right-of-way;
      (3)   A facility of a common carrier which is subject, in whole or in
part, to the provisions of Title 11 of the Communications Act of 1934, except
that such facility shall be considered a cable system to the extent such
facility is used in the retransmission of video programming directly to
subscribers; or
      (4)   Any facility of any electric utility used solely for operating its
electric utility system.
   (c)   “Cable service.”
      (1)   The one-way transmission to subscribers of video programming (i.e.,
programming provided by, or generally comparable to programming provided by, a
television broadcast station); and
      (2)   Subscriber interaction, if any, which is required for the selection
of such video programming.
   (d)   “FCC.” The Federal Communications Commission, or any successor
thereto, having jurisdiction over cable television.
   (e)   “Force majeure.” Strikes; work stoppages; acts of God; acts of public
enemies; orders of any kind of a government of the United States or of this
state or any of its departments, agencies or political subdivisions; riots,
epidemics, landslides, lightning, earthquakes, fires, hurricanes, tornadoes,
volcanic activity, storms, floods, washouts, droughts, civil disturbances,
explosions, partial or entire failure of utilities; or any other cause or event
not reasonably within the control of the disabled person.
   (f)   “Grantee.” Any person authorized by the village to provide cable
service within the village and such person’s agents, lawful successors,
transferees or assignees.
   (g)   “Gross revenues.” Basic subscriber revenue and premium service
revenue. For the purposes of the agreement, basic subscriber revenue means all
revenues or other consideration collected from subscribers in the village, by
or for the operator or its affiliated lessees, arising from the sale of the
operator’s basic service. Revenues paid by non-affiliated lessees to the
operator for a channel for provision of cable service to subscribers shall be
included in basic subscriber revenue if they are provided as part of basic
service. Premium service revenue means all revenues or other consideration
collected from subscribers, by or for the operator or its affiliated lessees,
arising from the sale of any premium service. Revenues paid by non-affiliated
lessees to the operator for a channel for provision of cable service to
subscribers shall be included in premium service revenue if they are provided
as part of premium service. Specifically excluded from premium service revenue
are revenues on home security systems, T. Load management services, data
transmission services and such other services as approved by the Village
Council. Gross revenues shall not include excise taxes, sales taxes, or
copyright fees, or any other taxes or fees, including the franchise fee, which
are imposed on the grantee or any subscriber by any governmental unit and
collected by the grantee for such governmental unit.
   (h)   “Person.” Any corporation, partnership, proprietorship or organization
authorized to do business in the state, or any natural person.
   (i)   “Public property.” Any real property other than a street owned by any
governmental unit.
   (j)   “State.” The State of Ohio.
   (k)   “Street.” The surface of and the space above and below any street,
road, highway, freeway, lane, path, way, alley, court, sidewalk, boulevard,
parkway or drive, or any public easement or right-of- way now or hereafter held
by the village, which shall entitle the grantee to the use thereof for the
purpose of installing or transmitting over poles, wires, cables, conductors,
ducts, confluents, vaults, manholes, amplifiers, appliances, attachments and
other property as may be ordinarily necessary and pertinent to a system.
   (l)   “Village.” The Village of Minerva Park, as the same now or in the
future may exist.
(Ord. 9-97, passed 8-11-1997)
§ 808.03 GRANT OF AUTHORITY.
   For the purposes of constructing, operating and maintaining a system in the
village, the grantee may erect, install, construct, repair, replace, relocate,
reconstruct and retain in, on, over, under, upon, across and along the streets,
including over public rights-of-way and through casements, within the village,
such lines, cables, conductors, ducts, confluents, vaults, manholes,
amplifiers, appliances, pedestals, attachments and other operating equipment as
are necessary and pertinent to the operation of the system.
(Ord. 9-97, passed 8-11-1997)
§ 808.04 COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE LAWS AND ORDINANCES.
   (a)   The franchise is granted pursuant to the terms and conditions
contained herein. Such terms and conditions shall be subordinate to all
applicable provisions of state and federal laws, rules and regulations.
   (b)   The grantee’s rights are subject to the police powers of the village
to adopt and enforce ordinances necessary to the health, safety and welfare of
the public that are not otherwise inconsistent with the terms and conditions of
the franchise. Subject to the foregoing, the grantee shall comply with all
applicable general laws and ordinances enacted by the village pursuant to that
power.
(Ord. 9-97, passed 8-11-1997)
§ 808.05 FRANCHISE TERRITORY.
   The franchise is granted for the territorial boundaries of the village. In
the event of annexation by the village, any new territory shall become part of
the area covered.
(Ord. 9-97, passed 8-11-1997)
§ 808.06 FRANCHISE TERM; EXPIRATION.
   Pursuant to the terms and conditions of this chapter, the village may grant
a permit to provide cable service for a period of up to 15 years. The franchise
shall expire at the end of the term as described unless renewed, revoked or
terminated sooner as herein provided.
(Ord. 9-97, passed 8-11-1997)
§ 808.07 FRANCHISES TO BE NONEXCLUSIVE.
   The franchise authorized herein is nonexclusive. The village specifically
reserves the right to grant, at any time, one or more additional franchises for
a system in accordance with state and federal law and on similar terms and
conditions as contained herein.
(Ord. 9-97, passed 8-11-1997)
§ 808.08 WRITTEN NOTICE REQUIRED.
   (a)   All notices or demands required to be given under the franchise shall
be deemed to be given when delivered personally to the person designated below
or upon the date actually received, as evidenced by registered or certified
mail receipt, addressed as follows:
   If to the village:      Fiscal Officer of the Village of Minerva Park
               P.O. Box 29070
               Columbus OH 43229
   If to the grantee:      To the appropriate person and address designated in
the permit.
   (b)   Such addresses may be changed by either person upon notice to the
other person given as provided in this section.
(Ord. 9-97, passed 8-11-1997)
§ 808.09 REPAIR OF STREETS AND PROPERTY.
   Any and all streets, public property or private property which is disturbed
or damaged during the construction, repair, replacement, relocation, operation,
maintenance or reconstruction of the system shall be promptly repaired by the
grantee to a condition as good as that prevailing prior to the grantee’s work.
(Ord. 9-97, passed 8-11-1997)
§ 808.10 CONSTRUCTION AND USE OF FACILITIES.
   (a)   Subject to the village’s approval, the grantee shall have the right to
erect and maintain its own poles at locations as it may find necessary for the
proper construction and maintenance of the cable system. Approval shall be
procured by the grantee from the Property Village Department providing for the
erection of said poles. Such approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.
   (b)   The grantee’s transmission and distribution system poles, wires and
appurtenances shall be located, erected and maintained so as not to endanger or
interfere with the lives of persons or to interfere with any improvements the
village may deem properly to make or to unnecessarily hinder or obstruct the
free use of streets, alleys, bridges, sidewalks, or any other public property.
Removal or relocation of poles or equipment when necessary to avoid such
interference shall be at the grantee’s expense.
   (c)   Construction and maintenance of the system shall be performed in an
orderly and workmanlike manner. The grantee shall at all times comply with the
National Electrical Code and such applicable ordinances and regulations of the
village affecting electrical and structural installations which may be
presently in effect or changed by future ordinance.
   (d)   All installations of cable distribution facilities shall be of a
permanent nature, durable, installed in accordance with good engineering
practice, and of such sufficient height to comply with all existing village
regulations, ordinances and state laws, so as not to interfere with the right
of the public or an individual property owner, and shall not interfere unduly
with the travel and use of public places by the public during the construction,
repair or removal thereof, and shall not unduly obstruct or impede traffic.
   (e)   The grantee shall maintain its system so that cables, wires, poles and
other facilities shall conform to the pattern of existing public utility
cables, wires, poles and other facilities, subject to the right of the village
to require relocation, either overhead or underground, of such cables, wires,
poles and other facilities when the village determines that such relocation is
necessary and in the public interest, but not for arbitrary and capricious
reasons. Any such relocation shall be at the grantee’s expense unless the
utilities are compensated for such relocation, in which case the grantee shall
be similarly compensated.
   (f)   The grantee shall maintain its system so that poles and other
structures of public utilities which are available shall be used to the extend
practicable to minimize interference with travel. Before placing or setting new
poles, the grantee shall file notice of such intention with the village and
specify the location, height and dimensions of the poles and notify affected
residents whose property may be disturbed. The construction shall not be
commenced until the specifications have been submitted to the appropriate
village agency and the grantee has received its written approval, which shall
not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.
   (g)   Whenever, by reason of the construction, repair, maintenance,
relocation, widening, raising or lowering of any grade; the vacation of any
street by the village or by the location or manner of construction,
reconstruction, maintenance or repair of any public property, structure or
facility by the village; or any public improvement, municipality owned or
operated utility services or pursuant to any plan adopted by the village, or
any public improvement, municipally owned or operated utility services or
pursuant to any plan adopted by the village for rehabilitating any section of
the village, it shall be deemed necessary by the village for the grantee to
move, relocate, change, alter or modify any of its facilities or structures,
such change, relocation, alteration or modification shall be promptly made by
the grantee. Any such relocation shall be at the grantee’s expense unless the
utilities are compensated for such relocation, in which case the grantee shall
be similarly compensated. In the event the grantee, after such notice, fails or
refuses to commence, pursue or complete such relocation work within a
reasonable time, the village shall have the authority, but not the obligation,
to remove or abate such structures or facilities and require the grantee to pay
to the village the cost of such relocation, alteration or modification. If the
grantee fails to complete, in a timely manner, any relocation requested by the
village and the village incurs any costs resulting from such delay, the grantee
shall be liable to the village for such costs.
   (h)   The grantee shall, upon request of any person holding a building
moving permit or permit to move oversize loads issued by the village,
temporarily raise or lower its wires to permit the moving of buildings or
oversize loads. The expense of such temporary removal or raising or lowering of
the wires shall be paid by the person requesting the same and the grantee shall
have the authority to require such payment in advance. The grantee shall be
given not less than seven days advance notice to arrange for such temporary
changes.
   (i)   The grantee shall have the authority to trim trees upon and
overhanging the streets of the village so as to prevent the branches of such
trees from coming in contact with the grantee’s wires and cables.
(Ord. 9-97, passed 8-11-1997)
§ 808.11 INDEMNIFICATION OF VILLAGE.
   (a)   The grantee shall, at its sole cost and expense, indemnify, defend and
hold harmless the village, its officers, boards, commissions, representatives
and employees acting in their official capacity, against and from any and all
claims, demands, causes of actions, suits, proceedings, damages, liabilities
and judgments of every kind arising out of or due to the grantee’s construction
or operation of the system in the village, including, but not limited to,
damages for injury or death or damage to property, real or personal, and
against all liabilities to others and against all loss, cost and expense,
resulting or arising out of any of the same.
   (b)   The grantee shall, at the sole risk and expense of the grantee, upon
demand of the village made by and through the Law Director, appear in and
defend any and all suits, actions or other legal proceedings, whether judicial,
quasi-judicial administrative or otherwise, brought or instituted or had by
third persons or duly constituted authorities, against or affecting the
village, its officers, boards, commissions, representatives or employees,
arising out of or due to the grantee’s construction or operation of the system
in the village.
   (c)   The grantee shall pay and satisfy and shall cause to be paid and
satisfied any judgment, decree, order, directive or demand, rendered, made or
issued against the grantee, the village, its officers, boards, commissions,
representatives or employees, for the foregoing, and such indemnity shall exist
and continue without reference to or limitation by the amount of any bond,
policy of insurance, deposit, undertaking or other assurance required hereunder
or otherwise.
   (d)   In order for the village to assert its rights to be indemnified,
defend and held harmless, the village must:
      (1)   Promptly notify the grantee of any claim or legal proceeding which
gives rise to such right;
      (2)   Afford the grantee the opportunity to participate in and fully
control any defense, compromise, settlement, resolution or disposition of such
claim or proceeding; and
      (3)   Fully cooperate in the defense of such claim and make available to
the grantee all such information under its control relating thereto.
(Ord. 9-97, passed 8-11-1997)
§ 808.12 COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE LAWS.
   All work undertaken in connection with the construction, reconstruction,
maintenance, operation or repair of the grantee’s system shall be subject to
and governed by all present laws, rules and regulations of the village, the
state and the United States of America, including the FCC and any other federal
agency having jurisdiction.
(Ord. 9-97, passed 8-11-1997)
§ 808.13 NOTICE OF RATE INCREASES.
   Prior to implementing any rate increase for basic or standard service, the
grantee shall give the following notices:
   (a)   At least 30 days’ advance notice to the village; and
   (b)   At least 30 days’ advance notice to subscribers.
(Ord. 9-97, passed 8-11-1997)
§ 808.14 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   (a)   The grantee shall maintain, throughout the term of the franchise,
liability insurance insuring the village and the grantee with regard to all
damages mentioned in §
808.11 in the following minimum amounts:
      (1)   Five hundred thousand dollars for bodily injury or death to any one
person;
      (2)   Five hundred thousand dollars for bodily injury or death resulting
from any one accident; and
      (3)   One million dollars for all other types of liability.
   (b)   Upon request of the village, the grantee shall furnish to the village
satisfactory evidence that an insurance policy has been obtained and is in full
force and effect.
(Ord. 9-97, passed 8-11-1997)
§ 808.15 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (a)   The grantee shall construct, operate and maintain its system according
to the specifications of the FCC.
   (b)   The grantee’s system shall be designed and rated for 24 hour a day
continuous operation.
   (c)   The grantee shall at all times employ a reasonable standard of care to
prevent failures or accidents which are likely to cause damage, injuries or
nuisances to the public.
   (d)   The grantee shall render efficient service, make repairs within a 48
hour business day cycle if access to the customer’s house is available during
that time period, and interrupt service only for good cause and for the
shortest times possible. Insofar as possible, such interruptions shall be
preceded by notice and shall occur during periods of minimum use of the system.
   (e)   The grantee shall furnish, without installation charge and without
monthly fees, basic service and one outlet to each public school within the
village and located within 150 feet of the system.
   (f)   The grantee shall provide parental control device capability, upon
request, to any subscriber.
   (g)   The field of cable communications is rapidly evolving and many
technological, regulatory, competitive and other changes are likely to occur
during the franchise term. It may be necessary during the term of the franchise
to review these changes and their impact on cable service to the village, if
any. (On the fifth year and tenth year anniversary of the franchise renewal,
the village may request a review with the grantee of technical, regulatory and
other changes in the cable industry and how they relate to cable service
available in the village at the time of the review.)
(Ord. 9-97, passed 8-11-1997)
§ 808.16 SUBSCRIBER COMPLAINTS.
   (a)   During the term of the franchise, the grantee shall maintain a local
or toll-free telephone number for the purpose of receiving and resolving all
complaints regarding the quality of service, equipment malfunctions, billing
inquiries and similar matters. The grantee shall provide trained personnel to
receive and process telephone and in-person calls concerning service problems
during normal business hours. Outside of normal business hours, the grantee may
provide an answering service or answering machine to receive telephone calls
concerning service problems.
   (b)   As subscribers are connected or reconnected to the system, the grantee
shall, by appropriate means, such as a card or brochure, furnish information
concerning the procedures for making inquiries or complaints, including the
name, address and local telephone number where such inquiries or complaints are
to be addressed.
   (c)   When there have been similar complaints made, or where there exists
other evidence, which in the judgment of the village casts doubt on the
reliability or quality of the system, the village shall have the right and
authority to require that the grantee test, analyze and report on the
performance of the system. The grantee shall fully cooperate with the village
in performing such testing and shall prepare results and a report, if
requested, within 30 days of notice. Such report shall include the following
information:
      (1)   The nature of the complaint or problem which precipitated the
special tests;
      (2)   What system component was tested;
      (3)   The equipment used and procedures employed in testing;
      (4)   The method, if any, in which such complaint or problem was
resolved; and
      (5)   Any other information pertinent to said tests and analysis which
may be required.
   (d)   The village may require that tests be monitored by a professional
engineer selected by the village at the village’s expense.
(Ord. 9-97, passed 8-11-1997)
§ 808.17 TRANSFER OR ASSIGNMENT OF FRANCHISE.
   The rights granted herein shall not be transferred or assigned by the
grantee without written notice to the village. Such consent shall not be
unreasonably withheld. No transfer or assignment shall become effective until
the transferee or the assignee has filed with the village its written
acceptance of the terms and conditions of the franchise. Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary, no such prior consent shall be required for a
transfer or assignment to any person controlling, controlled by or under the
same common control as the grantee.
(Ord. 9-97, passed 8-11-1997)
§ 808.18 FRANCHISE RENEWAL.
   The franchise shall be renewed in accordance with applicable state and
federal law.
(Ord. 9-97, passed 8-11-1997)
§ 808.19 REVOCATION OF FRANCHISE.
   In addition to all other rights which the village has pursuant to law or
equity, the village reserves the right to revoke, terminate or cancel the
franchise and all rights and privileges pertaining thereto in the event that:
   (a)   The grantee violates any material provision of the franchise;
   (b)   The grantee practices any fraud upon the village; or
   (c)   The grantee becomes insolvent, unable or unwilling to pay its debts,
or is adjudged bankrupt or a receiver is appointed to it.
(Ord. 9-97, passed 8-11-1997)
§ 808.20 REVOCATION PROCEDURES.
   (a)   The village shall notify the grantee in writing of its intention to
revoke, terminate or cancel the franchise. The written notice shall describe in
reasonable detail the specific violation so as to afford the grantee an
opportunity to remedy the violation.
   (b)   The grantee shall have 90 days subsequent to receipt of the notice in
which to correct the violation before the village may formally revoke,
terminate or cancel the franchise. The grantee may, within 30 days of receipt
of the notice, notify the village that there is a dispute as to whether a
violation has, in fact, occurred. Such notice by the grantee to the village
shall stay the 60-day period described above.
   (c)   The village shall hear the grantee’s dispute and shall determine
whether a default or violation by the grantee has occurred. In the event the
village shall determine that a default or violation has occurred, the village
shall supplement the decision with written findings of fact.
   (d)   If after hearing the dispute, the grantee has been found to be in
default, the grantee shall then have 60 days from such a determination to
remedy the violation or failure. At any time after that 60-day period the
village may, by formal action at a public hearing affording reasonable notice
and opportunity for the grantee to be heard, revoke, terminate or cancel the
franchise.
(Ord. 9-97, passed 8-11-1997)
§ 808.21 REMOVAL UPON REVOCATION.
   Upon the revocation of the franchise as herein provided, grantee shall
remove all of its attachments and wires from poles used as authorized herein.
(Ord. 9-97, passed 8-11-1997)
§ 808.22 FORCE MAJEURE.
   If, by reason of a force majeure, any party is unable, in whole or in part,
to carry out its obligations hereunder, that party shall not be deemed to be in
violation or default during the continuance of such inability.
(Ord. 9-97, passed 8-11-1997)
§ 808.23 MAPS.
   Upon request of the village, the grantee shall maintain on file with the
village a true and accurate map or set of as-built maps showing all system
equipment installed and in place in streets and other public places.
(Ord. 9-97, passed 8-11-1997)
§ 808.24 SERVICE AREA.
   (a)   Residents in those areas with an average density of at least 40 homes
per aerial mile or 80 homes per underground mile, as measured from the nearest
point of usable trunk, shall be provided service upon payment of the standard
installation charge and applicable monthly fees, except that installations
requiring underground drops or aerial drops in excess of 150 feet shall be
considered a non- standard installation to be charged to the subscriber at the
grantee’s actual cost of installation.
   (b)   Service to homes not meeting those density requirements of division
(a) hereof shall be provided on a time plus material basis.
(Ord. 9-97, passed 8-11-1997)
§ 808.25 UNAUTHORIZED CONNECTIONS OR MODIFICATIONS.
   (a)   No person shall, without the expressed consent of the grantee, make
any connection, extension or division, whether physically, acoustically,
inductively, electronically or otherwise, with or to any segment of the system
for any purpose whatsoever.
   (b)   No person shall willfully interfere with, tamper with, remove,
obstruct or damage any part, segment or content of the system for any purpose
whatsoever.
   (c)   No person shall construct, operate or maintain a system without having
first applied for and received a franchise permit from the village.
   (d)   Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be subject
to the penalty provided in §
808.99.
(Ord. 9-97, passed 8-11-1997)
§ 808.26 FRANCHISE FEE PAYMENTS.
   (a)   In accordance with the requirements of R.C. § 1332.32, all video
service providers providing video service in the village pursuant to a video
service authorization obtained from the Director of the Ohio Department of
Commerce shall pay the VSP fee in the amount of 3% of gross revenues received
from providing video service in the village, which gross revenue base shall
include advertising revenues. The VSP fee shall be paid quarterly, not sooner
than 45 days nor later than 60 days after the end of each calendar quarter.
   (b)   Upon receipt of notice from a video service provider that it will
begin providing video service in the village pursuant to a state-issued video
service authorization, the Mayor is authorized and directed to provide such
video service provider with notice of the VSP Fee as determined by this Council
in division (a) above, which notice shall be delivered in a manner that
provides for proof of timely delivery.
(Ord. 01-2008, passed - -)
§ 808.27 SEPARABILITY.
   If any term, condition or section of this chapter or the application thereof
to any person or circumstance shall, to any extent, be held to be invalid or
unenforceable, the remainder hereof and the application of such term, condition
or section to persons or circumstances other than those as to whom it shall be
held invalid or unenforceable shall not be affected thereby, and this chapter
and all the terms, conditions and sections hereof shall, in all other respects,
continue to be effective and be complied with.
(Ord. 9-97, passed 8-11-1997)
§ 808.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree for each offense. A separate offense shall be
deemed committed each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 860: CANVASSERS, PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
860.01   Definitions.
860.02   Canvassers.
860.03   Registration for not-for-profit charitable and/or religious purpose.
860.04   Peddlers and solicitors license.
860.05   Registration application and requirements.
860.06   License application and requirements.
860.07   Appeals.
860.08   Business hours restricted.
860.09   Notice prohibiting peddlers or solicitors.
860.10   Do not knock registry.
860.11   Fraud prohibited; revocation of registration or license.
860.99   Penalty.
Cross-reference:
   Littering, see§
660.03
   Trespassing, see §§
642.10,
642.11
Statutory reference:
   Charitable solicitations, see R.C. Ch. 1716
   Frozen deserts, see R.C. §§ 3717.51 et seq.
   Power to inspect food products, see R.C. § 715.46
   Power to regulate, see R.C. §§ 715.61 et seq.
§ 860.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (a)   “Canvasser.” Any person who seeks to disseminate any lawful message by
means of traveling from place to place without the invitation or previous
consent of the owner(s) or occupant(s) without soliciting funds, contributions,
or donations or peddling goods, wares, food, merchandise, or services.
   (b)   “Charitable.” Includes the words patriotic, philanthropic, social
service, welfare, eleemosynary, benevolent, educational, civic, fraternal,
veteran’s medical and social research, either actual or purported.
   (c)   “Contribution.” Gifts, food, clothing, money, property, furniture,
household items, donations of any kind, including those made under the guise of
a loan of money or property.
   (d)   “Legal holiday.” Includes New Year’s Day, Martin Luther King Day,
Presidents Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Columbus Day,
Veterans Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, and any day appointed and
recommended by the Governor of Ohio or the President of the United States as a
holiday. If any day designated in this section as a legal holiday falls on a
Sunday, the next succeeding day is a legal holiday.
   (e)   “License.” Document that must be completed by any peddler or solicitor
who is not peddling or soliciting on behalf of a charitable or religious not-
for-profit organization, and authorized by the Police Chief or designee before
any peddling and/or soliciting in the village.
   (f)   “Peddler.” Any person who travels from place to place and carries with
him or her for the purpose of sale at retail and immediate or future delivery,
goods, wares, food, merchandise, or services, or any person who in person as
principal or agent canvasses, sells, or otherwise obtains orders or commitments
for the sale, repair or exchange of goods, wares, food, merchandise, or
services.
   (g)   “Registration.” Document that must be completed by any peddler or
solicitor for a charitable or religious not-for-profit purpose and authorized
by the Police Chief or designee before peddling and/or soliciting in the
village.
   (h)   “Religious” or “religion.” Shall not include the word charitable but
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions.
   (i)   “School system.” Any and all public, parochial, private, charter,
preschool, elementary school, junior high school, high school, and college
preparatory school as are licensed as schools or educational institutions under
the laws of the State of Ohio.
   (j)   “Solicitor.” Any person who obtains or seeks to obtain funds or
donations for any cause whatsoever by means of traveling from place to place.
(Ord. 03-2008, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 860.02 CANVASSERS.
   A canvasser(s), as defined in §
860.01, shall not be required to register or obtain a license as long as such
canvassing does not include the violation of any local, state or federal law
and does not involve the solicitation of funds or donations or peddling of
goods, wares, food, merchandise or services.
(Ord. 03-2008, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 860.03 REGISTRATION FOR NOT-FOR-PROFIT CHARITABLE AND/OR RELIGIOUS PURPOSE.
   (a)   Subject to the exceptions in division (b) below, all people or
entities who, without compensation, systematically go to each residence or
randomly select residences for the purpose of peddling and soliciting on behalf
of or for any recognized charitable or religious not-for-profit organization
shall first register with the Police Chief or designee before proceeding with
such activity in accordance with the requirements of §
860.05. Such peddlers or solicitors on behalf of a not-for-profit shall not be
required to obtain a license as required under §
860.06.
   (b)   The following shall not be required to register as required by
division (a) above:
      (1)   Any peddler or solicitor on behalf of a recognized charitable or
religious not-for-profit organization engaged in the sale of services or
products exclusively to commercial, industrial, manufacturing or business
establishments located within the boundaries of the village;
      (2)   Peddlers or solicitors on behalf of various associations of school
systems, as defined in §
860.01, the Minerva Park Community Association, or the Village of Minerva Park;
and
      (3)   Minors 13 years old or younger.
   (c)   No fee shall be required for registration.
(Ord. 03-2008, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 860.04 PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS LICENSE.
   (a)   Subject to the exceptions in division (b) below, all people or
entities, other than peddlers or solicitors who, without compensation, peddle
or solicit on behalf of recognized charitable or not-for-profit religious
organization as set forth in §
860.03, who systematically go to each residence or randomly select residences
for the purpose of peddling and soliciting or any other similar activity shall
first register with and obtain a license as provided in this section and §§
860.05 and 860.06 herein, from the Police Chief or designee before proceeding
with such activity.
   (b)   The following shall not be required to obtain a license as required by
this section; and
      (1)   Any peddler or solicitor engaged in the sale of services or
products exclusively to commercial, industrial, manufacturing or business
establishments located within the boundaries of the village.
      (2)   Peddlers or solicitors on behalf of various associations of school
systems, as defined in §
860.01, the Minerva Park Community Association or the Village of Minerva Park.
(Ord. 03-2008, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 860.05 REGISTRATION APPLICATION AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   Registration forms shall be filed with the Police Chief or designee on
a form to be furnished by the Police Chief or designee, containing:
      (1)   Entity/organization - name, address, telephone and fax numbers,
website, federal tax ID number or EIN number, and nature of the entity/
organization; proof of tax exempt status and verification that the entity/
organization (nonprofit) has complied with the requirements of R.C. § 1716 and
other applicable laws pertaining to charitable solicitations.
      (2)   Person filling out the form - legal name, address, date of birth,
Social Security number, phone number, American government-issued photo ID
(city, state or federal), brief description (weight, height), and signature;
      (3)   Additional peddlers and/or solicitors, including drivers - legal
name, Social Security number, American government-issued photo ID (city, state
or federal), signature, brief description (weight, height);
      (4)   Vehicles - make, model, color, state of registration, and license
plate number of any and all vehicles involved in peddling and/or soliciting;
evidence of insurance coverage against property damage and bodily injury
occasioned by activities of the registrar, its agent(s) or employee(s),
indemnifying the village; evidence that each person operating a vehicle has
been licensed to operate such vehicle under the laws of a state of the United
States and has a valid operators or chauffeurs license as required by law; and
      (5)   Such other information as the Police Chief or designee may require.
   (b)   Each peddler and/or solicitor shall carry a photocopy of the
registration form, which shall be shown to any person or village official upon
request.
   (c)   Registration forms are not transferable. Any peddlers, solicitors and/
or vehicles to be added or substituted on behalf of the entity/organization
shall necessitate an additional registration.
   (d)   Registration forms shall automatically expire either on April 30 or
October 31 of any calendar year.
   (e)   Such registration shall not be used or represented in any way as an
endorsement by the village.
(Ord. 03-2008, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 860.06 LICENSE APPLICATION AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   License applications shall be filed with the Police Chief or designee
on a form to be furnished by the Police Chief or designee, containing:
      (1)   Entity/organization - name, address, telephone and fax numbers,
website, federal tax ID number or EIN number, and nature of the entity/
organization;
      (2)   Person filling out the form - legal name, address, date of birth,
Social Security number, phone number, American government-issued photo ID
(city, state or federal), brief description (weight, height), and signature;
      (3)   Additional peddlers and/or solicitors, including drivers - legal
name, Social Security number, American government-issued photo ID (city, state
or federal), signature, brief description;
      (4)   Vehicles - make, model, color, state of registration and license
plate number of any and all vehicles involved in peddling and/or soliciting;
evidence of insurance coverage against property damage and bodily injury
occasioned by activities of the registrar, its agent(s) or employee(s),
indemnifying the village; evidence that each person operating a vehicle has
been licensed to operate such vehicle under the laws of a state of the United
States and has a valid operators or chauffeurs license as required by law; and
      (5)    Such other information as the Police Chief or designee may
require.
   (b)   Each peddler and/or solicitor shall carry a photocopy of the license,
which shall be shown to any person or village official upon request, as shall
be proof of identity.
   (c)   Licenses are not transferable. Any peddlers, solicitors, vehicles and/
or change of sample to be added or substituted on behalf of the entity/
organization shall necessitate an additional registration and license.
   (d)   Licenses shall automatically expire either on April 30 or October 31
of any calendar year.
   (e)   License applications shall be submitted on a business day at least 48
hours before the license is issued to allow time for the Police Chief or
designee to conduct background check(s).
   (f)   If the Police Chief or designee determines after investigation that
the information furnished under this section is correct, that the applicant
proposes to engage in lawful commercial or professional enterprise, and that
neither the applicant nor the enterprise upon which the applicant proposes to
engage constitutes a clear and present danger to the residents of the village,
the Police Chief or designee shall issue a license to the entity/organization.
   (g)   Such license shall not be used or represented in any way as an
endorsement by the village.
   (h)   The fees charged by the village shall be set by Council through the
passage of a fee schedule that may be amended from time to time, such fees to
be deposited into the General Fund.
(Ord. 03-2008, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 860.07 APPEALS.
   Any person who has applied for a registration or license in accordance with
this chapter and to whom the Police Chief or designee has, after an
investigation, denied a registration or license may appeal the decision to the
Mayor. Such appeal shall be considered by the Mayor within five days, and the
Mayor’s decision shall be final.
(Ord. 03-2008, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 860.08 BUSINESS HOURS RESTRICTED.
   No person shall peddle, solicit or conduct market research, door to door, at
dwelling houses or businesses at random, on sidewalks or streets, at public
places, at private meeting places, or in any other manner or place in the
village on any legal holiday as defined in §
860.01 or on any day before 9:00 a.m. or after 7:00 p.m.
(Ord. 03-2008, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 860.09 NOTICE PROHIBITING PEDDLERS OR SOLICITORS.
   (a)   The owners or occupants of any residence or place of business may
evidence a determination to refuse to receive any uninvited peddlers or
solicitors by displaying a “Do Not Knock” placard upon or near the main
entrance door to the residence or place of business, containing the words “No
Peddlers or Solicitors Invited.”
   (b)   No person shall go upon any premises and ring the door bell, rap or
knock upon any door or create any sound in any other manner calculated to
attract the attention of any occupant of such residence or place of business
for the purpose of securing an audience with the occupants thereof and engage
in peddling or solicitation in defiance of a notice displayed pursuant to this
section.
   (c)   Failure to display such “Do Not Knock” placard on a residence or
business does not constitute a revocation of the intent of this section or §
860.10 and no person shall go upon any premises and ring the door bell, rap or
knock upon any door or create any sound in any other manner calculated to
attract the attention of any occupant of such residence or place of business
for the purpose of securing an audience with the occupants thereof and engage
in peddling or solicitation in defiance of a notice displayed pursuant to this
section.
(Ord. 03-2008, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 860.10 DO NOT KNOCK REGISTRY.
   (a)   The Police Chief or designee shall establish and maintain a peddlers
and solicitors Do Not Knock Registry.
   (b)   Any person in lawful possession and occupancy of any residence, house,
apartment or other dwelling in the village may require the village to place or
maintain his or her residence, house, apartment or other dwelling on the
peddlers and solicitors Do Not Knock Registry by submitting a separate request
on a form supplied by the Police Chief or designee, which shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The name of the person(s) completing the form;
      (2)   The complete address of the residence, house, apartment, or other
dwelling to be placed on the registry;
      (3)   The date the form was completed;
      (4)   A statement that no peddlers or solicitors shall knock, ring the
doorbell, or otherwise call at the subject address, or words of similar import;
and
      (5)   Such other information that verifies the identity of the person(s)
completing the form as a lawful possessor and occupant as maybe required by the
Police Chief or designee.
   (c)   Any person in lawful possession and occupancy of any residence, house,
apartment, or other dwelling in the village may require the village to remove
his or her residence, house, apartment or other dwelling for the peddlers and
solicitors Do Not Knock Registry by submitting a separate Notice of Removal
from said Registry on a form supplied by the Police Chief or designee, which
shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name of the person(s) completing the form;
      (2)   The complete address of the residence, house, apartment or other
dwelling to be removed from the Registry;
      (3)   The date the form was completed;
      (4)   A statement that the residence, house, apartment or other dwelling
be removed from the peddlers and solicitors Do Not Knock Registry, or words of
similar import; and
      (5)   Such other information that verifies the identity of the person(s)
completing the form as a lawful possessor and occupant as may be required by
the Police Chief or designee.
   (d)   The decision whether to place a residence, house, apartment or other
dwelling on the peddlers and solicitors Do Not Knock Registry shall be solely
of the lawful possessor and occupant thereof, and no official, employee or
other agent of the village shall interfere with said decision.
   (e)   A residence, house, apartment or other dwelling, after being lawfully
placed on the Peddlers and Solicitors Do Not Knock Registry, shall remain on
such Registry until the earlier of any of the following:
      (1)   The village receives a notice of removal pursuant to division (c)
above;
      (2)   The village receives notice that the person who submitted the form
pursuant to division (b) above is not or is no longer a lawful possessor or
occupant of the premises; and
      (3)   The expiration of five calendar years, expiring on December 31 of
the fifth full calendar year, from the date of the form submitted pursuant to
division (b) above.
   (f)   A copy of the peddler and solicitors Do Not Knock Registry shall be
made available for public inspection during normal business hours of the
village at the office of the Police Chief.
   (g)   No person shall go upon any premises and ring the doorbell, rap or
knock upon any door or create any sound in any other manner calculated to
attract the attention of any occupant of such residence or place of business
for the purpose of securing an audience with the occupants thereof and engage
in peddling or solicitation in defiance of the Do Not Knock Registry pursuant
to this section.
   (h)   Failure to display such “Do Not Knock” placard on a residence or
business does not constitute a revocation of the intent of §
860.09 or this section and no person shall go upon any premises and ring the
door bell, rap or knock upon any door or create any sound in any other manner
calculated to attract the attention of any occupant of such residence or place
of business for the purpose of securing an audience with the occupants thereof
and engage in peddling or solicitation in defiance of the Do Not Knock Registry
pursuant to this section.
(Ord. 03-2008, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 860.11 FRAUD PROHIBITED; REVOCATION OF REGISTRATION OR LICENSE.
   (a)   No person or entity shall directly or indirectly make or perpetrate
any false material statement, misstatement, deception, or fraud on any
application filed under this chapter.
   (b)   No person or entity having entered into an agreement to conduct any
peddling or solicitation on behalf of any person or entity shall fail to remit
or pay to the party entitled thereto the proceeds of such peddling or
solicitation in accordance with the terms the agreement.
   (c)   Upon a written complaint being filed with the Chief of Police or
designee that any canvasser, peddler, or solicitor is suffering from a
communicable disease; or has made himself or herself obnoxious to the public by
the use of indecent, profane, or insulting language; or that he or she has made
or perpetrated any misstatement, deception, or fraud in connection with any
solicitation or peddling for any purpose in the village, an investigation shall
be made, and if such complaint is found to be true, the registration and/or
license of such peddler or solicitor shall be revoked.
   (d)   The Police Chief or designee may revoke at any time any registration
or license issued under this chapter for violation of any provision of this
chapter.
(Ord. 03-2008, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 860.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree on the first offense and shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree for a second or subsequent violation of this
chapter or any substantially similar chapter of these codified ordinances. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a
violation or noncompliance occurs or continues.
   (b)   A violation of §§
860.09 or
860.10, in addition to other penalties provided for in this chapter, is deemed
to be a criminal trespass and shall be punishable in accordance with the laws
governing criminal trespass.
(Ord. 03-2008, passed 8-10-2009)
TITLE FOUR: TAXATION
CHAPTER 880: INCOME TAXES
Section
880.01   Authority to levy tax.
880.02   Purposes of tax; rate.
880.03   Allocation of funds.
880.04   Statement of procedural history; state mandated changes to municipal
income tax.
880.05   Effective date.
880.06   Definitions.
880.07   Income subject to tax for individuals; determining municipal taxable
income for individuals.
880.08   Income subject to tax for individuals; domicile.
880.09   Income subject to tax for individuals; exemption for member or
employee of general assembly and certain judges.
880.10   Collection at source; withholding from wages.
880.11   Collection at source; occasional entrant.
880.12   Collection at source; casino and vlt.
880.13   Income subject to net profit tax; determining municipal taxable income
for taxpayers who are not individuals.
880.14   Income subject to net profit tax; net profit; income subject to net
profit tax; alternative apportionment.
880.15   Income subject to net profit tax; consolidated federal income tax
return.
880.16   Income subject to net profit tax; tax credit for businesses that
foster new jobs in Ohio.
880.17   Income subject to net profit tax; tax credits to foster job retention.
880.18   Declaration of estimated tax.
880.19   Credit for tax paid to another municipality.
880.20   Refundable credit for qualifying loss.
880.21   Credit for person working in joint economic development district.
880.22   Credit for tax beyond statute for obtaining refund.
880.23   Annual return; return and payment of tax.
880.24   Annual return; return and payment of tax; individuals serving in
combat zone.
880.25   Annual return; use of Ohio business gateway; types of filings
authorized.
880.26   Annual return; extension of time to file.
880.27   Annual return; amended returns.
880.28   Annual return; refunds.
880.29   Penalty, interest, fees and charges.
880.30   Audit.
880.31   Rounding.
880.32   Authority of Tax Administrator; administrative powers of the Tax
Administrator.
880.33   Authority of Tax Administrator; compromise of claim and payment over
time.
880.34   Authority of Tax Administrator; right to examine.
880.35   Authority of Tax Administrator; requiring identifying information.
880.36   Confidentiality.
880.37   Fraud.
880.38   Opinion of the Tax Administrator.
880.39   Assessment; appeal based on presumption of delivery.
880.40   Local Board of Tax Review; appeal to local Board of Tax Review.
880.41   Actions to recover; statute of limitations.
880.42   Adoption of rules.
880.43   Landlord reporting.
880.44   Collection of tax after termination of chapter.
880.45   Savings clause.
880.99   Penalty.
§ 880.01 AUTHORITY TO LEVY TAX.
   (a)   The tax on income and the withholding tax established by this Chapter
880 are authorized by Article XVIII, Section 3 of the Ohio Constitution. The
tax on income and the withholding tax established by this Chapter 880 are
deemed to be levied in accordance with, and to be consistent with, the
provisions and limitations of R.C. § 718. This chapter is deemed to incorporate
the provisions of R.C. § 718.
   (b)   The tax is an annual tax levied on the income of every person residing
in or earning or receiving income in the municipal corporation, and shall be
measured by municipal taxable income. The municipality shall tax income at a
uniform rate. The tax is levied on municipal taxable income, as defined herein.
(Source: R.C. § 718.04)
(Ord. 21-2015, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 880.02 PURPOSES OF TAX; RATE.
   (a)   To provide funds for the purpose of general municipal functions,
including but not limited to safety services, street maintenance, capital
improvements and related costs of the Village of Minerva Park (the
municipality), there shall be and is hereby levied a tax of 2% on all salaries,
wages, commissions, rents and other compensations, and on the net profits as
hereinafter provided.
(R.C. § 718.04)
   (b)   There shall be no credit against the municipal taxable income due the
village for income tax paid to other municipalities.
(Ord. 21-2015, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 880.03 ALLOCATION OF FUNDS.
   The Council of the Village of Minerva Park shall allocate by ordinance that
portion of the municipal income tax pledge for other purposes (i.e., the
payment of debt) as needed.
(Ord. 21-2015, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 880.04 STATEMENT OF PROCEDURAL HISTORY; STATE MANDATED CHANGES TO MUNICIPAL
INCOME TAX.
   (a)   Significant and wide-ranging amendments to R.C. § 718 were enacted by
Am Sub HB 5, passed by the 130th General Assembly, and signed by Governor
Kasich on December 19, 2014, and H.B. 5 required municipal corporations to
conform to and adopt the provisions of R.C. § 718 in order to have the
authority to impose, enforce, administer and collect a municipal income tax.
   (b)   As mandated by H.B. 5, municipal income tax Ordinance 2015-XX,
effective January 1, 2016, comprehensively amends Chapter 880 in accordance
with the provisions of R.C. § 718 to allow the municipality to continue the
income tax and withholding tax administration and collection efforts on behalf
of the municipality.
(Ord. 21-2015, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 880.05 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (a)   Ordinance 2015-21, effective January 1, 2016, and corresponding
changes to R.C. § 718, apply to municipal taxable years beginning on or after
January 1, 2016. All provisions of this Chapter 880 apply to taxable years
beginning 2016 and succeeding taxable years.
   (b)   Ordinance 2015-21 does not repeal the existing sections of Ordinances
01-2014, 2013-01 and 07-2004 for any taxable year prior to 2016, but rather
amends Ordinances 01-2014, 2013-01 and 07-2004 effective January 1, 2016. For
municipal taxable years beginning before January 1, 2016, the municipality
shall continue to administer, audit and enforce the income tax of the
municipality under R.C. § 718 and ordinances and resolutions of the
municipality as that chapter and those ordinances and resolutions existed
before January 1, 2016.
(Source: Uncodified Section 2 of Am Sub MB 5, passed Dec 2014; R.C. § 718.04)
(Ord. 21-2015, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 880.06 DEFINITIONS.
   (a)   Any term used in this chapter that is not otherwise defined in this
chapter has the same meaning as when used in a comparable context in laws of
the United States relating to federal income taxation or in R.C. Title LVII,
unless a different meaning is clearly required. If a term used in this chapter
that is not otherwise defined in this chapter is used in a comparable context
in both the laws of the United States relating to federal income tax and in
R.C. Title LVII and the use is not consistent, then the use of the term in the
laws of the United States relating to federal income tax shall control over the
use of the term in R.C. Title LVII.
   (b)   For purposes of this section, the singular shall include the plural,
and the masculine shall include the feminine and the gender-neutral.
   (c)   As used in this chapter:
      (1)   “Adjusted federal taxable income.” For a person required to file as
a C corporation, or for a person that has elected to be taxed as a C
corporation under division (c)(23)D. below, means a C corporation’s federal
taxable income before net operating losses and special deductions as determined
under the Internal Revenue Code, adjusted as follows:
         A.   Deduct intangible income to the extent included in federal
taxable income. The deduction shall be allowed regardless of whether the
intangible income relates to assets used in a trade or business or assets held
for the production of income.
         B.   Add an amount equal to 5% of intangible income deducted under
division (c)(1)H.3.(a) of this section, but excluding that portion of
intangible income directly related to the sale, exchange or other disposition
of property described in § 1221 of the Internal Revenue Code;
         C.   Add any losses allowed as a deduction in the computation of
federal taxable income if the losses directly relate to the sale, exchange or
other disposition of an asset described in §§ 1221 or 1231 of the Internal
Revenue Code;
         D.   1.   Except as provided in division (c)(1)D.2. below, deduct
income and gain included in federal taxable income to the extent the income and
gain directly relate to the sale, exchange, or other disposition of an asset
described in §§ 1221 or 1231 of the Internal Revenue Code;
            2.   Division (c)(1)D.1. above does not apply to the extent the
income or gain is income or gain described in §§ 1245 or 1250 of the Internal
Revenue Code.
         E.   Add taxes on or measured by net income allowed as a deduction in
the computation of federal taxable income;
         F.   In the case of a real estate investment trust or regulated
investment company, add all amounts with respect to dividends to, distributions
to, or amounts set aside for or credited to the benefit of investors and
allowed as a deduction in the computation of federal taxable income;
         G.   Deduct, to the extent not otherwise deducted or excluded in
computing federal taxable income, any income derived from a transfer agreement
or from the enterprise transferred under that agreement under R.C. § 4313.02;
         H.   1.   Except as limited by divisions (c)(1)H.2., 3., and 4. below,
deduct any net operating loss incurred by the person in a taxable year
beginning on or after January 1, 2017. The amount of such net operating loss
shall be deducted from net profit that is reduced by exempt income to the
extent necessary to reduce municipal taxable income to zero, with any remaining
unused portion of the net operating loss carried forward to not more than five
consecutive taxable years following the taxable year in which the loss was
incurred, but in no case for more years than necessary for the deduction to be
fully utilized.
            2.   No person shall use the deduction allowed by division (c)(1)H.
of this section to offset qualifying wages.
            3.   (a)   For taxable years beginning in 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021,
or 2022, a person may not deduct, for purposes of an income tax levied by a
municipal corporation that levies an income tax before January 1, 2016, more
than 50% of the amount of the deduction otherwise allowed by division (c)
(1)H.1. above.
               (b)   For taxable years beginning in 2023 or thereafter, a
person may deduct, for purposes of an income tax levied by a municipal
corporation that levies an income tax before January 1, 2016, the full amount
allowed by division (c)(1)H.1. above.
            4.   Any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward deduction that is
available must be utilized before a taxpayer may deduct any amount pursuant to
division (c)(1)H. of this section.
            5.   Nothing in division (c)(1)H.3.(a) of this section precludes a
person from carrying forward, for use with respect to any return filed for a
taxable year beginning after 2018, any amount of net operating loss that was
not fully utilized by operation of division (c)(1)H.3.(a) above. To the extent
that an amount of net operating loss that was not fully utilized in one or more
taxable years by operation of division (c)(1)H.3.(a) above is carried forward
for use with respect to a return filed for a taxable year beginning in 2019,
2020, 2021, or 2022, the limitation described in division (c)(1)H.3.(a) above
shall apply to the amount carried forward.
         I.   Deduct any net profit of a pass-through entity owned directly or
indirectly by the taxpayer and included in the taxpayer’s federal taxable
income unless an affiliated group of corporations includes that net profit in
the group’s federal taxable income in accordance with §
880.15(e)(3)B.
         J.   Add any loss incurred by a pass-through entity owned directly or
indirectly by the taxpayer and included in the taxpayer’s federal taxable
income unless an affiliated group of corporations includes that loss in the
group’s federal taxable income in accordance with §
880.15(e)(3)B. If the taxpayer is not a C corporation, is not a disregarded
entity that has made the election described in division (c)(47)B. below, is not
a publicly traded partnership that has made the election described in division
(c)(23)D. below, and is not an individual, the taxpayer shall compute adjusted
federal taxable income under this section as if the taxpayer were a C
corporation, except guaranteed payments and other similar amounts paid or
accrued to a partner, former partner, shareholder, former shareholder, member
or former member shall not be allowed as a deductible expense unless such
payments are in consideration for the use of capital and treated as payment of
interest under § 469 of the Internal Revenue Code or United States treasury
regulations. Amounts paid or accrued to a qualified self-employed retirement
plan with respect to a partner, former partner, shareholder, former
shareholder, member or former member of the taxpayer, amounts paid or accrued
to or for health insurance for a partner, former partner, shareholder, former
shareholder, member or former member, and amounts paid or accrued to or for
life insurance for a partner, former partner, shareholder, former shareholder,
member, or former member shall not be allowed as a deduction. Nothing in
division (c)(1) above shall be construed as allowing the taxpayer to add or
deduct any amount more than once or shall be construed as allowing any taxpayer
to deduct any amount paid to or accrued for purposes of federal self-employment
tax.
      (2)   A.   “Assessment.” Any of the following:
            1.   A written finding by the Tax Administrator that a person has
underpaid municipal income tax, or owes penalty and interest, or any
combination of tax, penalty or interest, to the municipal corporation;
            2.   A full or partial denial of a refund request issued under §
880.29(b)(2);
            3.   A Tax Administrator’s denial of a taxpayer’s request for use
of an alternative apportionment method, issued under §
880.14(b)(2); or
            4.   A Tax Administrator’s requirement for a taxpayer to use an
alternative apportionment method, issued under §
880.14(b)(3).
            5.   For purposes of division (c)(2)A.1., 2., 3. and 4. above, an
assessment shall commence the person’s time limitation for making an appeal to
the Local Board of Tax Review pursuant to §
880.41, and shall have “ASSESSMENT” written in all capital letters at the top
of such finding.
         B.   “Assessment” does not include notice(s) denying a request for
refund issued under §
880.29(b)(3), a billing statement notifying a taxpayer of current or past-due
balances owed to the municipal corporation, a Tax Administrator’s request for
additional information, a notification to the taxpayer of mathematical errors,
or a Tax Administrator’s other written correspondence to a person or taxpayer
that does not meet the criteria prescribed by division (2)A. of this section.
      (3)   “Audit.” The examination of a person or the inspection of the
books, records, memoranda or accounts of a person, ordered to appear before the
Tax Administrator, for the purpose of determining liability for a municipal
income tax.
      (4)   “Board of Review.” Has same meaning as “Local Board of Tax Review”.
      (5)   “Calendar quarter.” The three-month period ending on the last day
of March, June, September or December.
      (6)   “Casino operator” and “casino facility.” Have the same meanings as
in R.C. § 3772.01.
      (7)   “Certified mail,” “express mail,” “United States mail,” “postal
service” and similar terms. Include any delivery service authorized pursuant to
R.C. § 5703.056.
      (8)   “Compensation.” Any form of remuneration paid to an employee for
personal services.
      (9)   “Disregarded entity.” A single member limited liability company, a
qualifying subchapter S subsidiary, or another entity if the company,
subsidiary, or entity is a disregarded entity for federal income tax purposes.
      (10)   “Domicile.” The true, fixed and permanent home of the taxpayer to
which, whenever absent, the taxpayer intends to return.
      (11)   “Exempt income.” All of the following:
         A.   The military pay or allowances of members of the armed forces of
the United States or members of their reserve components, including the
national guard of any state;
         B.   1.   Except as provided in division (c)(11)B.2. below, intangible
income;
            2.   A municipal corporation that taxed any type of intangible
income on March 29, 1988, pursuant to § 3 of S.B. 238 of the 116th General
Assembly, may continue to tax that type of income if a majority of the electors
of the municipal corporation voting on the question of whether to permit the
taxation of that type of intangible income after 1988 voted in favor thereof at
an election held on November 8, 1988.
         C.   Social Security benefits, railroad retirement benefits,
unemployment compensation, pensions, retirement benefit payments, payments from
annuities, and similar payments made to an employee or to the beneficiary of an
employee under a retirement program or plan, disability payments received from
private industry or local, state, or federal governments or from charitable,
religious or educational organizations, and the proceeds of sickness, accident,
or liability insurance policies. As used in this division (c)(11)C.,
“unemployment compensation” does not include supplemental unemployment
compensation described in § 3402(o)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code;
         D.   The income of religious, fraternal, charitable, scientific,
literary, or educational institutions to the extent such income is derived from
tax-exempt real estate, tax-exempt tangible or intangible property, or tax-
exempt activities;
         E.   Compensation paid under R.C. §§ 3501.28 or 3501.36 to a person
serving as a precinct election official to the extent that such compensation
does not exceed $1,000 for the taxable year. Such compensation in excess of
$1,000 for the taxable year may be subject to taxation by a municipal
corporation. A municipal corporation shall not require the payer of such
compensation to withhold any tax from that compensation;
         F.   Dues, contributions and similar payments received by charitable,
religious, educational or literary organizations or labor unions, lodges and
similar organizations;
         G.   Alimony and child support received;
         H.   Awards for personal injuries or for damages to property from
insurance proceeds or otherwise, excluding compensation paid for lost salaries
or wages or awards for punitive damages;
         I.   Income of a public utility when that public utility is subject to
the tax levied under R.C. §§ 5727.24 or 5727.30. This division (c)(11)I. does
not apply for purposes of R.C. Ch. 5745.
         J.   Gains from involuntary conversions, interest on federal
obligations, items of income subject to a tax levied by the state and that a
municipal corporation is specifically prohibited by law from taxing, and income
of a decedent’s estate during the period of administration except such income
from the operation of a trade or business;
         K.   Compensation or allowances excluded from federal gross income
under § 107 of the Internal Revenue Code;
         L.   Employee compensation that is not qualifying wages as defined in
division (c)(34) below;
         M.   Compensation paid to a person employed within the boundaries of a
United States Air Force base under the jurisdiction of the United States Air
Force that is used for the housing of members of the United States Air Force
and is a center for Air Force operations, unless the person is subject to
taxation because of residence or domicile. If the compensation is subject to
taxation because of residence or domicile, tax on such income shall be payable
only to the municipal corporation of residence or domicile;
         N.   An S corporation shareholder’s distributive share of net profits
of the S corporation, other than any part of the distributive share of net
profits that represents wages as defined in § 3121(a) of the Internal Revenue
Code or net earnings from self-employment as defined in § 1402(a) of the
Internal Revenue Code;
         O.   All of the municipal taxable income earned by individuals under
18 years of age;
         P.   1.   Except as provided in divisions (c)(11)P.2., 3., and 4.
below, qualifying wages described in §
880.11(b)(1) or (e) to the extent the qualifying wages are not subject to
withholding for the municipality under either of those divisions.
            2.   The exemption provided in division (c)(11)P.1. above does not
apply with respect to the municipal corporation in which the employee resided
at the time the employee earned the qualifying wages.
            3.   The exemption provided in division (c)(11)P.1. above does not
apply to qualifying wages that an employer elects to withhold under §
880.11(d)(2).
            4.   The exemption provided in division (c)(11)P.1. above does not
apply to qualifying wages if both of the following conditions apply:
               (a)   For qualifying wages described in §
880.11(b)(1), the employee’s employer withholds and remits tax on the
qualifying wages to the municipal corporation in which the employee’s principal
place of work is situated, or, for qualifying wages described in division §
880.11(e), the employee’s employer withholds and remits tax on the qualifying
wages to the municipal corporation in which the employer’s fixed location is
located;
               (b)   The employee receives a refund of the tax described in
division (c)(11)P.4.(a) above on the basis of the employee not performing
services in that municipal corporation.
         Q.   1.   Except as provided in division (c)(11)Q.2. or 3. below,
compensation that is not qualifying wages paid to a nonresident individual for
personal services performed in the municipality on not more than 20 days in a
taxable year.
            2.   The exemption provided in division (c)(11)Q.1. above does not
apply under either of the following circumstances.
               (a)   The individual’s base of operation is located in the
municipality.
               (b)   The individual is a professional athlete, professional
entertainer, or public figure, and the compensation is paid for the performance
of services in the individual’s capacity as a professional athlete,
professional entertainer, or public figure. For purposes of this division (c)
(11)Q.2.(b), “professional athlete,” “professional entertainer,” and “public
figure” have the same meanings as in §
880.11.
            3.   Compensation to which this division (c)(11)Q. applies shall be
treated as earned or received at the individual’s base of operation. If the
individual does not have a base of operation, the compensation shall be treated
as earned or received where the individual is domiciled.
            4.   For purposes of this division (c)(11)Q., “base of operation”
means the location where an individual owns or rents an office, storefront, or
similar facility to which the individual regularly reports and at which the
individual regularly performs personal services for compensation.
         R.   Compensation paid to a person for personal services performed for
a political subdivision on property owned by the political subdivision,
regardless of whether the compensation is received by an employee of the
subdivision or another person performing services for the subdivision under a
contract with the subdivision, if the property on which services are performed
is annexed to a municipal corporation pursuant to R.C. § 709.023 on or after
March 27, 2013, unless the person is subject to such taxation because of
residence. If the compensation is subject to taxation because of residence,
municipal income tax shall be payable only to the municipal corporation of
residence; and
         S.   Income the taxation of which is prohibited by the constitution or
laws of the United States. Any item of income that is exempt income of a pass-
through entity under this division (c)(11) is exempt income of each owner of
the pass-through entity to the extent of that owner’s distributive or
proportionate share of that item of the entity’s income.
      (12)   “Form 2106.” Internal revenue service form 2106 filed by a
taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      (13)   “Generic form.” An electronic or paper form that is not prescribed
by a particular municipal corporation and that is designed for reporting taxes
withheld by an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer, estimated
municipal income taxes, or annual municipal income tax liability, including a
request for refund.
      (14)   “Income.” Includes the following:
         A.   1.   For residents, all income, salaries, qualifying wages,
commissions, and other compensation from whatever source earned or received by
the resident, including the resident’s distributive share of the net profit of
pass-through entities owned directly or indirectly by the resident and any net
profit of the resident, except as provided in division (c)(23)D. below;
            2.   For the purposes of division (c)(14)A.1. above:
               (a)   Any net operating loss of the resident incurred in the
taxable year and the resident’s distributive share of any net operating loss
generated in the same taxable year and attributable to the resident’s ownership
interest in a pass-through entity shall be allowed as a deduction, for that
taxable year and the following five taxable years, against any other net profit
of the resident or the resident’s distributive share of any net profit
attributable to the resident’s ownership interest in a pass-through entity
until fully utilized, subject to division (c)(14)A.4. below; and
               (b)   The resident’s distributive share of the net profit of
each pass-through entity owned directly or indirectly by the resident shall be
calculated without regard to any net operating loss that is carried forward by
that entity from a prior taxable year and applied to reduce the entity’s net
profit for the current taxable year.
            3.   Division (c)(14)A.2. above does not apply with respect to any
net profit or net operating loss attributable to an ownership interest in an S
corporation unless shareholders’ distributive shares of net profits from S
corporations are subject to tax in the municipal corporation as provided in
division (c)(11)N. above or division (c)(14)E. below.
            4.   Any amount of a net operating loss used to reduce a taxpayer’s
net profit for a taxable year shall reduce the amount of net operating loss
that may be carried forward to any subsequent year for use by that taxpayer. In
no event shall the cumulative deductions for all taxable years with respect to
a taxpayer’s net operating loss exceed the original amount of that net
operating loss available to that taxpayer.
         B.   In the case of nonresidents, all income, salaries, qualifying
wages, commissions, and other compensation from whatever source earned or
received by the nonresident for work done, services performed or rendered, or
activities conducted in the municipality, including any net profit of the
nonresident, but excluding the nonresident’s distributive share of the net
profit or loss of only pass-through entities owned directly or indirectly by
the nonresident;
         C.   For taxpayers that are not individuals, net profit of the
taxpayer; and
         D.   Lottery, sweepstakes, gambling and sports winnings, winnings from
games of chance, and prizes and awards. If the taxpayer is a professional
gambler for federal income tax purposes, the taxpayer may deduct related
wagering losses and expenses to the extent authorized under the Internal
Revenue Code and claimed against such winnings. Credit for tax withheld or paid
to another municipal corporation on such winnings paid to the municipal
corporation where winnings occur is limited to the credit as specified in §
880.20.
         E.   INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
      (15)   “Intangible income.” Income of any of the following types: income
yield, interest, capital gains, dividends, or other income arising from the
ownership, sale, exchange, or other disposition of intangible property
including, but not limited to, investments, deposits, money, or credits as
those terms are defined in R.C. Ch. 5701, and patents, copyrights, trademarks,
trade names, investments in real estate investment trusts, investments in
regulated investment companies, and appreciation on deferred compensation.
“Intangible income” does not include prizes, awards, or other income associated
with any lottery winnings, gambling winnings, or other similar games of chance.
      (16)   “Internal Revenue Code.” The “Internal Revenue Code of 1986,” 100
Sta. 2085, 26 U.S.C.A. 3, as amended.
      (17)   “Limited liability company.” A limited liability company formed
under R.C. Ch. 1705 or under the laws of another state.
      (18)   “Local Board of Tax Review” and “Board of Tax Review.” The entity
created under §
880.40.
      (19)   “Municipal corporation.” In general terms, a status conferred upon
a local government unit, by state law giving the unit certain autonomous
operating authority such as the power of taxation, power of eminent domain,
police power and regulatory power, and includes a joint economic development
district or joint economic development zone that levies an income tax under
R.C. §§ 715.691, 715.70 or 715.71.
      (20)   A.   “Municipal taxable income.” Includes the following:
            1.   For a person other than an individual, income reduced by
exempt income to the extent otherwise included in income and then, as
applicable, apportioned or sitused to the municipality under §
880.14, and further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward
available to the person for the municipality;
            2.   (a)   For an individual who is a resident of a municipality
other than a qualified municipal corporation, income reduced by exempt income
to the extent otherwise included in income, then reduced as provided in
division (c)(20)B. below, and further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating
loss carry forward available to the individual for the municipality.
               (b)   For an individual who is a resident of a qualified
municipal corporation, Ohio adjusted gross income reduced by income exempted,
and increased by deductions excluded, by the qualified municipal corporation
from the qualified municipal corporation’s tax on or before December 31, 2013.
If a qualified municipal corporation, on or before December 31, 2013, exempts
income earned by individuals who are not residents of the qualified municipal
corporation and net profit of persons that are not wholly located within the
qualified municipal corporation, such individual or person shall have no
municipal taxable income for the purposes of the tax levied by the qualified
municipal corporation and may be exempted by the qualified municipal
corporation from the requirements of R.C. § 718.03.
            3.   For an individual who is a nonresident of the municipality,
income reduced by exempt income to the extent otherwise included in income and
then, as applicable, apportioned or sitused to the municipality under §
880.14, then reduced as provided in division (c)(20)B. below, and further
reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward available to the
individual for the municipality.
         B.   In computing the municipal taxable income of a taxpayer who is an
individual, the taxpayer may subtract, as provided in division (c)(20)A.2.(a)
or (c)(20)A.3. above, the amount of the individual’s employee business expenses
reported on the individual’s form 2106 that the individual deducted for federal
income tax purposes for the taxable year, subject to the limitation imposed by
§ 67 of the Internal Revenue Code. For the municipal corporation in which the
taxpayer is a resident, the taxpayer may deduct all such expenses allowed for
federal income tax purposes. For a municipal corporation in which the taxpayer
is not a resident, the taxpayer may deduct such expenses only to the extent the
expenses are related to the taxpayer’s performance of personal services in that
nonresident municipal corporation.
      (21)   “Municipality.” The Village of Minerva Park.
      (22)   “Net operating loss.” A loss incurred by a person in the operation
of a trade or business. “Net operating loss” does not include unutilized losses
resulting from basis limitations, at-risk limitations, or passive activity loss
limitations.
      (23)   A.   “Net profit.” For a person other than an individual, means
adjusted federal taxable income.
            B.   “Net profit.” For a person who is an individual means the
individual’s net profit required to be reported on schedule C, schedule E, or
schedule F reduced by any net operating loss carried forward. For the purposes
of division (c)(23)A. above, the net operating loss carried forward shall be
calculated and deducted in the same manner as provided in division (c)(1)H.
above.
         C.   For the purposes of this chapter, and notwithstanding division
(c)(23)A. above, net profit of a disregarded entity shall not be taxable as
against that disregarded entity, but shall instead be included in the net
profit of the owner of the disregarded entity.
         D.   1.   For purposes of this chapter, “publicly traded partnership”
means any partnership, an interest in which is regularly traded on an
established securities market. A “publicly traded partnership” may have any
number of partners.
            2.   For the purposes of this chapter, and not withstanding any
other provision of this chapter, the net profit of a publicly traded
partnership that makes the election described in this division (c)(23)D. shall
be taxed as if the partnership were a C corporation, and shall not be treated
as the net profit or income of any owner of the partnership.
            3.   A publicly traded partnership that is treated as a partnership
for federal income tax purposes and that is subject to tax on its net profits
in one or more municipal corporations in this state may elect to be treated as
a C corporation for municipal income tax purposes. The publicly traded
partnership shall make the election in every municipal corporation in which the
partnership is subject to taxation on its net profits. The election shall be
made on the annual tax return filed in each such municipal corporation. Once
the election is made, the election is binding for a five-year period beginning
with the first taxable year of the initial election. The election continues to
be binding for each subsequent five-year period unless the taxpayer elects to
discontinue filing municipal income tax returns as a C corporation for
municipal purposes under division (c)(23)D.4. below.
            4.   An election to discontinue filing as a C corporation must be
made in the first year following the last year of a five-year election period
in effect under division (c)(23)D.3. above. The election to discontinue filing
as a C corporation is binding for a five-year period beginning with the first
taxable year of the election and continues to be binding for each subsequent
five-year period unless the taxpayer elects to discontinue filing municipal
income tax returns as a partnership for municipal purposes. An election to
discontinue filing as a partnership must be made in the first year following
the last year of a five-year election period.
            5.   The publicly traded partnership shall not be required to file
the election with any municipal corporation in which the partnership is not
subject to taxation on its net profits, but this division (c)(23)D. applies to
all municipal corporations in which an individual owner of the partnership
resides.
            6.   The individual owners of the partnership not filing as a C
corporation shall be required to file with their municipal corporation of
residence, and report partnership distribution of net profit.
      (24)   “Nonresident.” An individual that is not a resident of the
municipality.
      (25)   “Ohio Business Gateway.” The online computer network system,
created under R.C. § 125.30 that allows persons to electronically file business
reply forms with state agencies and includes any successor electronic filing
and payment system.
      (26)   “Other payer.” Any person, other than an individual’s employer or
the employer’s agent, that pays an individual any amount included in the
federal gross income of the individual. “Other payer” includes casino operators
and video lottery terminal sales agents.
      (27)   “Pass-through entity.” A partnership not treated as an association
taxable as a C corporation for federal income tax purposes, a limited liability
company not treated as an association taxable as a C corporation for federal
income tax purposes, an S corporation, or any other class of entity from which
the income or profits of the entity are given pass-through treatment for
federal income tax purposes. “Pass-through entity” does not include a trust,
estate, grantor of a grantor trust, or disregarded entity.
      (28)   “Pension.” Any amount paid to an employee or former employee that
is reported to the recipient on an IRS form 1099-R, or successor form. Pension
does not include deferred compensation, or amounts attributable to nonqualified
deferred compensation plans, reported as FICA/Medicare wages on an IRS form W-
2, Wage and Tax Statement, or successor form.
      (29)   “Person.” Includes individuals, firms, companies, joint stock
companies, business trusts, estates, trusts, partnerships, limited liability
partnerships, limited liability companies, associations, C corporations, S
corporations, governmental entities, and any other entity.
      (30)   “Postal service.” The United States postal service, or private
delivery service delivering documents and packages within an agreed upon
delivery schedule, or any other carrier service delivering the item.
      (31)   “Postmark date,” “date of postmark” and similar terms. Include the
date recorded and marked by a delivery service and recorded electronically to a
database kept in the regular course if its business and marked on the cover in
which the payment or document is enclosed, the date on which the payment or
document was given to the delivery service for delivery
      (32)   A.   “Pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward.” Any net operating
loss incurred in a taxable year beginning before January 1, 2017, to the extent
such loss was permitted, by a resolution or ordinance of the municipality that
was adopted by the municipality before January 1, 2016, to be carried forward
and utilized to offset income or net profit generated in such municipality in
future taxable years.
         B.   For the purpose of calculating municipal taxable income, any pre-
2017 net operating loss carryforward may be carried forward to any taxable
year, including taxable years beginning in 2017 or thereafter, for the number
of taxable years provided in the resolution or ordinance or until fully
utilized, whichever is earlier.
      (33)   “Qualified municipal corporation.” A municipal corporation that,
by resolution or ordinance adopted on or before December 31, 2011, adopted Ohio
adjusted gross income, as defined by R.C. § 5747.01, as the income subject to
tax for the purposes of imposing a municipal income tax.
      (34)   “Qualifying wages.” Wages, as defined in § 3121(a) of the Internal
Revenue Code, without regard to any wage limitations, adjusted as follows:
         A.   Deduct the following amounts:
            1.   Any amount included in wages if the amount constitutes
compensation attributable to a plan or program described in § 125 of the
Internal Revenue Code.
            2.   Any amount included in wages if the amount constitutes payment
on account of a disability related to sickness or an accident paid by a party
unrelated to the employer, agent of an employer or other payer.
            3.   INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK.
            4.   INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK.
            5.   Any amount included in wages that is exempt income.
         B.   Add the following amounts:
            1.   Any amount not included in wages solely because the employee
was employed by the employer before April 1, 1986;
            2.   Any amount not included in wages because the amount arises
from the sale, exchange, or other disposition of a stock option, the exercise
of a stock option, or the sale, exchange, or other disposition of stock
purchased under a stock option. This division, (c)(34)B.2. applies only to
those amounts constituting ordinary income;
            3.   Any amount not included in wages if the amount is an amount
described in §§ 401(k), 403(b), or 457 of the Internal Revenue Code. This
division (c)(34)B.3. applies only to employee contributions and employee
deferrals;
            4.   Any amount that is supplemental unemployment compensation
benefits described in § 3402(o)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code and not
included in wages;
            5.   Any amount received that is treated as self-employment income
for federal tax purposes in accordance with § 1402(a)(8) of the Internal
Revenue Code; and
            6.   Any amount not included in wages if all of the following
apply:
               (a)   For the taxable year the amount is employee compensation
that is earned outside of the United States and that either is included in the
taxpayer’s gross income for federal income tax purposes or would have been
included in the taxpayer’s gross income for such purposes if the taxpayer did
not elect to exclude the income under § 911 of the Internal Revenue Code;
               (b)   For no preceding taxable year did the amount constitute
wages as defined in § 3121(a) of the Internal Revenue Code;
               (c)   For no succeeding taxable year will the amount constitute
wages; and
               (d)   For any taxable year the amount has not otherwise been
added to wages pursuant to either division (c)(34)B. above or R.C. § 718.03, as
that section existed before the effective date of H.B. 5 of the 130th general
assembly, March 23, 2015.
      (35)   “Related entity.” Any of the following:
         A.   An individual stockholder, or a member of the stockholder’s
family enumerated in § 318 of the Internal Revenue Code, if the stockholder and
the members of the stockholder’s family own directly, indirectly, beneficially
or constructively, in the aggregate, at least 50% of the value of the
taxpayer’s outstanding stock;
         B.   A stockholder, or a stockholder’s partnership, estate, trust, or
corporation, if the stockholder and the stockholder’s partnerships, estates,
trusts, or corporations own directly, indirectly, beneficially or
constructively, in the aggregate, at least 50% of the value of the taxpayer’s
outstanding stock;
         C.   A corporation, or a party related to the corporation in a manner
that would require an attribution of stock from the corporation to the party or
from the party to the corporation under division (c)(35)D. below, provided the
taxpayer owns directly, indirectly, beneficially or constructively, at least
50% of the value of the corporation’s outstanding stock; or
         D.   The attribution rules described in § 318 of the Internal Revenue
Code apply for the purpose of determining whether the ownership requirements in
divisions (c)(35)A. to C. above have been met.
      (36) “Related member.” A person that, with respect to the taxpayer during
all or any portion of the taxable year, is either a related entity, a component
member as defined in § 1563(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, or a person to or
from whom there is attribution of stock ownership in accordance with § 1563(e)
of the Internal Revenue Code except, for purposes of determining whether a
person is a related member under this division, “20%” shall be substituted for
“5%” wherever “5%” appears in § 1563(e) of the Internal Revenue Code.
      (37)   “Resident.” An individual who is domiciled in the municipality as
determined under §
880.08.
      (38)   “S corporation.” A person that has made an election under
Subchapter S of Chapter 1 of Subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code for its
taxable year.
      (39)   “Schedule C.” Internal revenue service schedule C (form 1040)
filed by a taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      (40)   “Schedule E.” Internal revenue service schedule E (form 1040)
filed by a taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      (41)   “Schedule F.” Internal revenue service schedule F (form 1040)
filed by a taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      (42)   “Single member limited liability company.” A limited liability
company that has one direct member.
      (43)   “Small employer.” Any employer that had total revenue of less than
$500,000 during the preceding taxable year. For purposes of this division,
“total revenue” means receipts of any type or kind, including, but not limited
to, sales receipts; payments; rents; profits; gains, dividends, and other
investment income; commissions; premiums; money; property; grants;
contributions; donations; gifts; program service revenue; patient service
revenue; premiums; fees, including premium fees and service fees; tuition
payments; unrelated business revenue; reimbursements; any type of payment from
a governmental unit, including grants and other allocations; and any other
similar receipts reported for federal income tax purposes or under generally
accepted accounting principles. “Small employer” does not include the federal
government; any state government, including any state agency or
instrumentality; any political subdivision; or any entity treated as a
government for financial accounting and reporting purposes.
      (44)   “Tax Administrator.” The individual charged with direct
responsibility for administration of an income tax levied by a municipal
corporation in accordance with this chapter, and also includes the following:
         A.   A municipal corporation acting as the agent of another municipal
corporation;
         B.   A person retained by a municipal corporation to administer a tax
levied by the municipal corporation, but only if the municipal corporation does
not compensate the person in whole or in part on a contingency basis; and
         C.   The Central Collection Agency (CCA) or the Regional Income Tax
Agency (RITA) or their successors in interest, or another entity organized to
perform functions similar to those performed by the Central Collection Agency
and the Regional Income Tax Agency.
      (45)   “Tax return preparer.” Any individual described in § 7701(a)(36)
of the Internal Revenue Code and 26 C.F.R. § 301.7701-15.
      (46)   “Taxable year.” The corresponding tax reporting period as
prescribed for the taxpayer under the Internal Revenue Code.
      (47)   A.   “Taxpayer.” A person subject to a tax levied on income by a
municipal corporation in accordance with this chapter. “Taxpayer” does not
include a grantor trust or, except as provided in division (c)(47)B.1. below, a
disregarded entity.
         B.   1.   A single member limited liability company that is a
disregarded entity for federal tax purposes may be a separate taxpayer from its
single member in all Ohio municipal corporations in which it either filed as a
separate taxpayer or did not file for its taxable year ending in 2003, if all
of the following conditions are met:
               (a)   The limited liability company’s single member is also a
limited liability company;
               (b)   The limited liability company and its single member were
formed and doing business in one or more Ohio municipal corporations for at
least five years before January 1, 2004;
               (c)   Not later than December 31, 2004, the limited liability
company and its single member each made an election to be treated as a separate
taxpayer under R.C. § 718.01(L)(2)(iii) as this section existed on December 31,
2004;
               (d)   The limited liability company was not formed for the
purpose of evading or reducing Ohio municipal corporation income tax liability
of the limited liability company or its single member; and
               (e)   The Ohio municipal corporation that was the primary place
of business of the sole member of the limited liability company consented to
the election.
            2.   For purposes of division (c)(47)B.1.(e) above, a municipal
corporation was the primary place of business of a limited liability company
if, for the limited liability company’s taxable year ending in 2003, its income
tax liability was greater in that municipal corporation than in any other
municipal corporation in Ohio, and that tax liability to that municipal
corporation for its taxable year ending in 2003 was at least $400,000.
      (48)   “Taxpayers’ rights and responsibilities.” The rights provided to
taxpayers in R.C. §§ 718.11, 718.12, 718.19, 718.23, 718.36, 718.37, 718.38,
5717.011, and 5717.03 and any corresponding ordinances of the municipality, and
the responsibilities of taxpayers to file, report, withhold, remit, and pay
municipal income tax and otherwise comply with R.C. Ch. 718 and resolutions,
ordinances, and rules adopted by a municipal corporation for the imposition and
administration of a municipal income tax.
      (49)   “Video lottery terminal.” Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
3770.21.
      (50)   “Video lottery terminal sales agent.” A lottery sales agent
licensed under R.C. Ch. 3770 to conduct video lottery terminals on behalf of
the state pursuant to R.C. § 3770.21.
(Source: Most definitions can be found in R.C. § 718.01)
(Ord. 21-2015, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 880.07 INCOME SUBJECT TO TAX FOR INDIVIDUALS; DETERMINING MUNICIPAL TAXABLE
INCOME FOR INDIVIDUALS.
   (a)   Municipal taxable income for a resident of the municipality is
calculated as follows.
      (1)   Income reduced by exempt income to the extent such exempt income is
otherwise included in income, reduced by allowable employee business expense
deduction as found in §
880.06(c)(20)B., further reduced by any “pre-2017 net operating loss
carryforward” equals “municipal taxable income”.
         A.   Income is defined in §
880.06(c)(14).
            1.   Qualifying wages is defined in §
880.06(c)(34).
            2.   Net profit is included in income, and is defined in §
880.06(c)(23). This section also provides that the net operating loss
carryforward shall be calculated and deducted in the same manner as provided in
§
880.06(c)(1)H. Treatment of net profits received by an individual taxpayer from
rental real estate is provided in §
880.14(e).
            3.   Section 880.06(c)(14) provides the following: offsetting and
net operating loss carryforward treatment in §
880.06(c)(14)A.2.(a); resident’s distributive share of net profit from pass
through entity treatment in §
880.06(c)(14)A.2.(b); treatment of S corporation distributive share of net
profit in the hands of the shareholder in §
880.06(c)(14)A.3.; restriction of amount of loss permitted to be carried
forward for use by taxpayer in a subsequent taxable year in §
880.06(c)(14)A.4.
            4.   Pass through entity is defined in §
880.06(c)(27).
         B.   Exempt income is defined in §
880.06(c)(13).
         C.   Allowable employee business expense deduction is described in §
880.06(c)(20)B., and is subject to the limitations provided in that section.
         D.   “Pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward” is defined in §
880.06(c)(32).
   (b)   “Municipal taxable income” for a nonresident of the municipality is
calculated as follows:
      (1)   Income reduced by exempt income to the extent such exempt income is
otherwise included in income, as applicable, apportioned or sitused to the
municipality as provided in §
880.14, reduced by allowable employee business expense deduction as found in §
880.06(c)(20)B., further reduced by any “pre-2017 net operating loss
carryforward” equals “municipal taxable income”.
         A.   Income is defined in §
880.06(c)(14).
            1.   Qualifying wages is defined in §
880.06(c)(34).
            2.   Net profit is included in income, and is defined in §
880.06(c)(23). This section also provides that the net operating loss
carryforward shall be calculated and deducted in the same manner as provided in
§
880.06(c)(1)H. Net profit for a nonresident individual includes any net profit
of the nonresident, but excludes the distributive share of net profit or loss
of only pass through entity owned directly or indirectly by the nonresident.
            3.   Pass through entity is defined in §
880.06(c)(27).
         B.   Exempt income is defined in §
880.06(c)(11).
         C.   Apportioned or sitused to the municipality as provided in §
880.14 includes the apportionment of net profit income attributable to work
done or services performed in the municipality. Treatment of net profits
received by an individual taxpayer from rental real estate is provided in §
880.14(e).
         D.   Allowable employee business expense deduction as described in §
880.06(c)(20)B. is subject to the limitations provided in that section. For a
nonresident of the municipality, the deduction is limited to the extent the
expenses are related to the performance of personal services by the nonresident
in the municipality.
         E.   Pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward is defined in §
880.06(c)(32).
(Ord. 21-2015, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 880.08 INCOME SUBJECT TO TAX FOR INDIVIDUALS; DOMICILE.
   (a)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Domicile” means the true, fixed and permanent home of the taxpayer
to which whenever absent, the taxpayer intends to return.
      (2)   An individual is presumed to be domiciled in the municipality for
all or part of a taxable year if the individual was domiciled in the
municipality on the last day of the immediately preceding taxable year or if
the Tax Administrator reasonably concludes that the individual is domiciled in
the municipality for all or part of the taxable year.
      (3)   An individual may rebut the presumption of domicile described in
division (a)(1) of this section if the individual establishes by a
preponderance of the evidence that the individual was not domiciled in the
municipality for all or part of the taxable year.
   (b)   For the purpose of determining whether an individual is domiciled in
the municipality for all or part of a taxable year, factors that may be
considered include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   The individual’s domicile in other taxable years;
      (2)   The location at which the individual is registered to vote;
      (3)   The address on the individual’s driver’s license;
      (4)   The location of real estate for which the individual claimed a
property tax exemption or reduction allowed on the basis of the individual’s
residence or domicile;
      (5)   The location and value of abodes owned or leased by the individual;
      (6)   Declarations, written or oral, made by the individual regarding the
individual’s residency;
      (7)   The primary location at which the individual is employed;
      (8)   The location of educational institutions attended by the
individual’s dependents as defined in § 152 of the Internal Revenue Code, to
the extent that tuition paid to such educational institution is based on the
residency of the individual or the individual’s spouse in the municipal
corporation or state where the educational institution is located; and
      (9)   The number of contact periods the individual has with the
municipality. For the purposes of this division, an individual has one “contact
period” with the municipality if the individual is away overnight from the
individual’s abode located outside of the municipality and while away overnight
from that abode spends at least some portion, however minimal, of each of two
consecutive days in the municipality. For purposes of this section, the state’s
contact period test or bright-line test and resulting determination have no
bearing on municipal residency or domicile.
   (c)   All applicable factors are provided in R.C. § 718.012.
(Source: R.C. § 718.012)
(Ord. 21-2015, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 880.09 INCOME SUBJECT TO TAX FOR INDIVIDUALS; EXEMPTION FOR MEMBER OR
EMPLOYEE OF GENERAL ASSEMBLY AND CERTAIN JUDGES.
   (a)   Only the municipal corporation of residence shall be permitted to levy
a tax on the income of any member or employee of the Ohio General Assembly,
including the Lieutenant Governor, whose income is received as a result of
services rendered as such member or employee and is paid from appropriated
funds of this state.
   (b)   Only the municipal corporation of residence and the City of Columbus
shall levy a tax on the income of the Chief Justice or a Justice of the Supreme
Court received as a result of services rendered as the Chief Justice or
Justice. Only the municipal corporation of residence shall levy a tax on the
income of a judge sitting by assignment of the Chief Justice or on the income
of a district court of appeals judge sitting in multiple locations within the
district received as a result of services rendered as a judge. (Source: R.C. §
718.50)
(Ord. 21-2015, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 880.10 COLLECTION AT SOURCE; WITHHOLDING FROM WAGES.
   (a)   (1)   Each employer, agent of an employer or other payer located or
doing business in the municipality shall withhold from each employee an amount
equal to the qualifying wages of the employee earned by the employee in the
municipality multiplied by the applicable rate of the municipality’s income
tax, except for qualifying wages for which withholding is not required under §
880.11 or division (d) or (f) below. An employer, agent of an employer or other
payer shall deduct and withhold the tax from qualifying wages on the date that
the employer, agent or other payer directly, indirectly or constructively pays
the qualifying wages to, or credits the qualifying wages to the benefit of, the
employee.
      (2)   In addition to withholding the amounts required under division (a)
(1) above, an employer, agent of an employer or other payer may also deduct and
withhold, on the request of an employee, taxes for the municipal corporation in
which the employee is a resident.
   (b)   (1)   An employer, agent of an employer or other payer shall remit to
the Tax Administrator of the municipality the greater of the income taxes
deducted and withheld or the income taxes required to be deducted and withheld
by the employer, agent or other payer, along with any report required by the
Tax Administrator to accompany such payment, according to the following
schedule:
         A.   Any employer, agent of an employer or other payer not required to
make payments under division (b)(1)B. or (b)(1)C. below of taxes required to be
deducted and withheld shall make quarterly payments to the Tax Administrator
not later than the fifteenth day of the month following the end of each
calendar quarter.
         B.   Taxes required to be deducted and withheld shall be remitted
monthly to the Tax Administrator if the total taxes deducted and withheld or
required to be deducted and withheld by the employer, agent or other payer on
behalf of the municipal corporation in the preceding calendar year exceeded
$2,399, or if the total amount of taxes deducted and withheld or required to be
deducted and withheld on behalf of the municipality in any month of the
preceding calendar quarter exceeded $200. Payment under division (b)(1)B. above
shall be made so that the payment is received by the Tax Administrator not
later than 15 days after the last day of each month.
         C.   Taxes required to be deducted and withheld shall be remitted
semimonthly to the Tax Administrator if the total taxes deducted and withheld
or required to be deducted on behalf of the municipality in the preceding
calendar year exceeded $11,999, or if the total amount of taxes deducted and
withheld or required to be deducted and withheld on behalf of the municipality
in any month of the receding calendar year exceeded $1,000. The payment under
this division (b)(1)C. of this section shall be made so that they payment is
received by the Tax Administrator not later than one of the following:
            1.   If the taxes were deducted and withheld or required to be
deducted and withheld during the first 15 days of a month, the third banking
day after the fifteenth day of that month; or
            2.   If the taxes were deducted and withheld or required to be
deducted and withheld after the fifteenth day of a month and before the first
day of the immediately following month, the third banking day after the last
day of that month.
   (c)   An employer, agent of an employer, or other payer shall make and file
a return showing the amount of tax withheld by the employer, agent, or other
payer from the qualifying wages of each employee and remitted to the Tax
Administrator. A return filed by an employer, agent or other payer under this
division (c) shall be accepted by the municipality as the return required of an
employee whose sole income subject to the tax under this chapter is the
qualifying wages reported by the employee’s employer, agent of an employer or
other payer, unless the municipality requires all resident individual taxpayers
to file a tax return under §
880.24.
   (d)   An employer, agent of an employer or other payer is not required to
withhold municipal income tax with respect to an individual’s disqualifying
disposition of an incentive stock option if, at the time of the disqualifying
disposition, the individual is not an employee of either the corporation with
respect to whose stock the option has been issued or of such corporation’s
successor entity.
   (e)   (1)   An employee is not relieved from liability for a tax by the
failure of the employer, agent of an employer or other payer to withhold the
tax as required under this chapter or by the employer’s, agent’s or other
payer’s exemption from the requirement to withhold the tax.
      (2)   The failure of an employer, agent of an employer or other payer to
remit to the municipality the tax withheld relieves the employee from liability
for that tax unless the employee colluded with the employer, agent or other
payer in connection with the failure to remit the tax withheld.
   (f)   Compensation deferred before June 26, 2003, is not subject to any
municipal corporation income tax or municipal income tax withholding
requirement to the extent the deferred compensation does not constitute
qualifying wages at the time the deferred compensation is paid or distributed.
   (g)   Each employer, agent of an employer or other payer required to
withhold taxes is liable for the payment of that amount required to be
withheld, whether or not such taxes have been withheld, and such amount shall
be deemed to be held in trust for the municipality until such time as the
withheld amount is remitted to the Tax Administrator.
   (h)   On or before the last day of February of each year, an employer shall
file a withholding reconciliation return with the Tax Administrator listing the
names, addresses and Social Security numbers of all employees from whose
qualifying wages tax was withheld or should have been withheld for the
municipality during the preceding calendar year, the amount of tax withheld, if
any, from each such employee’s qualifying wage, the total amount of qualifying
wages paid to such employee during the preceding calendar year, the name of
every other municipal corporation for which tax was withheld or should have
been withheld from such employee during the preceding calendar year, any other
information required for federal income tax reporting purposes on Internal
Revenue Service form W-2 or its equivalent form with respect to such employee,
and other information as may be required by the Tax Administrator.
   (i)   The officer or the employee of the employer, agent of an employer or
other payer with control or direct supervision of or charged with the
responsibility for withholding the tax or filing the reports and making
payments as required by this section, shall be personally liable for a failure
to file a report or pay the tax due as required by this section. The
dissolution of an employer, agent of an employer or other payer does not
discharge the officer’s or employee’s liability for a failure of the employer,
agent of an employer or other payer to file returns or pay any tax due.
   (j)   An employer is required to deduct and withhold municipal income tax on
tips and gratuities received by the employer’s employees and constituting
qualifying wages only to the extent that the tips and gratuities are under the
employer’s control. For the purposes of this division (j), a tip or gratuity is
under the employer’s control if the tip or gratuity is paid by the customer to
the employer for subsequent remittance to the employee, or if the customer pays
the tip or gratuity by credit card, debit card or other electronic means.
   (k)   A Tax Administrator shall consider any tax withheld by an employer at
the request of an employee when such tax is not otherwise required to be
withheld by this chapter to be tax required to be withheld and remitted for the
purposes of this section.
(Source: R.C. § 718.03)
(Ord. 21-2015, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 880.11 COLLECTION AT SOURCE; OCCASIONAL ENTRANT.
   (a)   The following terms as used in this section:
      (1)   “Employer.” Includes a person that is a related member to or of an
employer.
      (2)   “Fixed location.” A permanent place of doing business in this
state, such as an office, warehouse, storefront, or similar location owned or
controlled by an employer.
      (3)   “Professional athlete.” An athlete who performs services in a
professional athletic event for wages or other remuneration.
      (4)   “Professional entertainer.” A person who performs services in the
professional performing arts for wages or other remuneration on a per-event
basis.
      (5)   “Public figure.” A person of prominence who performs services at
discrete events, such as speeches, public appearances, or similar events, for
wages or other remuneration on a per-event basis.
      (6)   A.   “Principal place of work.” The fixed location to which an
employee is required to report for employment duties on a regular and ordinary
basis. If the employee is not required to report for employment duties on a
regular and ordinary basis to a fixed location, “principal place of work” means
the worksite location in this state to which the employee is required to report
for employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis. If the employee is not
required to report for employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis to a
fixed location or worksite location, “principal place of work” means the
location in this state at which the employee spends the greatest number of days
in a calendar year performing services for or on behalf of the employee’s
employer.
         B.   If there is not a single municipal corporation in which the
employee spent the “greatest number of days in a calendar year” performing
services for or on behalf of the employer, but instead there are two or more
municipal corporations in which the employee spent an identical number of days
that is greater than the number of days the employee spent in any other
municipal corporation, the employer shall allocate any of the employee’s
qualifying wages subject to division (b)(1)A. of this section among those two
or more municipal corporations. The allocation shall be made using any fair and
reasonable method, including, but not limited to, an equal allocation among
such municipal corporations or an allocation based upon the time spent or sales
made by the employee in each such municipal corporation. A municipal
corporation to which qualifying wages are allocated under this division shall
be the employee’s “principal place of work” with respect to those qualifying
wages for the purposes of this section.
         C.   For the purposes of this division (a)(6), the location at which
an employee spends a particular day shall be deemed in accordance with division
(b)(2) of this section, except that “location” shall be substituted for
“municipal corporation” wherever “municipal corporation” appears in that
division.
      (7)   “Worksite location.” A construction site or other temporary
worksite in this state at which the employer provides services for more than 20
days during the calendar year. “Worksite location” does not include the home of
an employee.
   (b)   (1)   Subject to divisions (c), (e), (f), and (g) of this section, an
employer is not required to withhold municipal income tax on qualifying wages
paid to an employee for the performance of personal services in a municipal
corporation that imposes such a tax if the employee performed such services in
the municipal corporation on 20 or fewer days in a calendar year, unless one of
the following conditions applies:
         A.   The employee’s principal place of work is located in the
municipality;
         B.   The employee performed services at one or more presumed worksite
locations in the municipality. For the purposes of this division, “presumed
worksite location” means a construction site or other temporary worksite in
this state at which the employer provides services that can reasonably be
expected by the employer to last more than 20 days in a calendar year. Services
can “reasonably be expected by the employer to last more than 20 days” if
either of the following applies at the time the services commence:
            1.   The nature of the services are such that it will require more
than 20 days of actual services to complete the services; or
            2.   The agreement between the employer and its customer to perform
services at a location requires the employer to perform actual services at the
location for more than 20 days.
         C.   The employee is a resident of the municipality and has requested
that the employer withhold tax from the employee’s qualifying wages as provided
in §
880.10; or
         D.   The employee is a professional athlete, professional entertainer
or public figure, and the qualifying wages are paid for the performance of
services in the employee’s capacity as a professional athlete, professional
entertainer or public figure within the municipality.
      (2)   For the purposes of division (b)(1) of this section, an employee
shall be considered to have spent a day performing services in a municipal
corporation only if the employee spent more time performing services for or on
behalf of the employer in that municipal corporation than in any other
municipal corporation on that day. For the purposes of determining the amount
of time an employee spent in a particular location, the time spent performing
one or more of the following activities shall be considered to have been spent
at the employee’s principal place of work:
         A.   Traveling to the location at which the employee will first
perform services for the employer for the day;
         B.   Traveling from a location at which the employee was performing
services for the employer to any other location;
         C.   Traveling from any location to another location in order to pick
up or load, for the purpose of transportation or delivery, property that has
been purchased, sold, assembled, fabricated, repaired, refurbished, processed,
remanufactured or improved by the employee’s employer;
         D.   Transporting or delivering property described in division (b)
(2)C. of this section, provided that, upon delivery of the property, the
employee does not temporarily or permanently affix the property to real estate
owned, used or controlled by a person other than the employee’s employer; and
         E.   Traveling from the location at which the employee makes the
employee’s final delivery or pick-up for the day to either the employee’s
principal place of work or a location at which the employee will not perform
services for the employer.
   (c)   If the principal place of work of an employee is located in a
municipal corporation that imposes an income tax in accordance with this
chapter, the exception from withholding requirements described in division (b)
(1) of this section shall apply only if, with respect to the employee’s
qualifying wages described in that division, the employer withholds and remits
tax on such qualifying wages to the municipal corporation in which the
employee’s principal place of work is located.
   (d)   (1)   Except as provided in division (d)(2) of this section, if,
during a calendar year, the number of days an employee spends performing
personal services in a municipal corporation exceeds the 20 day threshold
described in division (b)(1) of this section, the employer shall withhold and
remit tax to that municipal corporation for any subsequent days in that
calendar year on which the employer pays qualifying wages to the employee for
personal services performed in that municipal corporation.
      (2)   An employer required to begin withholding tax for a municipal
corporation under division (d)(1) of this section may elect to withhold tax for
that municipal corporation for the first 20 days on which the employer paid
qualifying wages to the employee for personal services performed in that
municipal corporation.
      (3)   If an employer makes the election described in division (d)(2) of
this section, the taxes withheld and paid by such an employer during those
first 20 days to the municipal corporation in which the employee’s principal
place of work is located are refundable to the employee.
   (e)   Without regard to the number of days in a calendar year on which an
employee performs personal services in any municipal corporation, an employer
shall withhold municipal income tax on all of the employee’s qualifying wages
for a taxable year and remit that tax only to the municipal corporation in
which the employer’s fixed location is located if the employer qualifies as a
small employer as defined in §
880.06(c) of this chapter. To determine whether an employer qualifies as a
small employer for a taxable year, a Tax Administrator may require the employer
to provide the Tax Administrator with the employer’s federal income tax return
for the preceding taxable year.
   (f)   Divisions (b)(1) and (d) of this section shall not apply to the extent
that a Tax Administrator and an employer enter into an agreement regarding the
manner in which the employer shall comply with the requirements of §
880.10.
   (g)   (1)   In the case of a person performing personal services at a
petroleum refinery located in a municipal corporation that imposes a tax on
income, an employer is not required to withhold municipal income tax on the
qualifying wages of such a person if the person performs those services on 12
or fewer days in a calendar year, unless the principal place of work of the
employer is located in another municipal corporation in this state that imposes
a tax applying to compensation paid to the person for services performed on
those days and the person is not liable to that other municipal corporation for
tax on the compensation paid for such services. For the purposes of this
division, a petroleum refinery is a facility with a standard industrial
classification code facility classification of 2911, petroleum refining.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (d) above, if, during a calendar year, the
number of days an individual performs personal services at a petroleum refinery
exceeds 12, the employer shall withhold tax for the municipal corporation for
the first 12 days for which the employer paid qualifying wages to the
individual and for all subsequent days in the calendar year on which the
individual performed services at the refinery.
(Source: R.C. §§ 718.011; 718.01)
(Ord. 21-2015, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 880.12 COLLECTION AT SOURCE; CASINO AND VLT.
   (a)   The municipality shall require a casino facility or a casino operator,
as defined in Section 6(C)(9) of Article XV, Ohio Constitution, and R.C. §
3772.01, respectively, or a lottery sales agent conducting video lottery
terminals sales on behalf of the state to withhold and remit municipal income
tax with respect to amounts other than qualifying wages as provided in this
section.
   (b)   If a person’s winnings at a casino facility are an amount for which
reporting to the internal revenue service of the amount is required by § 6041
of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, the casino operator shall deduct and
withhold municipal income tax from the person’s winnings at the rate of the tax
imposed by the municipal corporation in which the casino facility is located.
   (c)   Amounts deducted and withheld by a casino operator are held in trust
for the benefit of the municipal corporation to which the tax is owed.
      (1)   On or before the tenth day of each month, the casino operator shall
file a return electronically with the Tax Administrator of the municipality,
providing the name, address and Social Security number of the person from whose
winnings amounts were deducted and withheld, the amount of each such deduction
and withholding during the preceding calendar month, the amount of the winnings
from which each such amount was withheld, the type of casino gaming that
resulted in such winnings, and any other information required by the Tax
Administrator. With this return, the casino operator shall remit electronically
to the municipality all amounts deducted and withheld during the preceding
month.
      (2)   Annually, on or before the thirty-first day of January, a casino
operator shall file an annual return electronically with the Tax Administrator
of the municipal corporation in which the casino facility is located,
indicating the total amount deducted and withheld during the preceding calendar
year. The casino operator shall remit electronically with the annual return any
amount that was deducted and withheld and that was not previously remitted. If
the name, address or Social Security number of a person or the amount deducted
and withheld with respect to that person was omitted on a monthly return for
that reporting period, that information shall be indicated on the annual
return.
      (3)   Annually, on or before the thirty-first day of January, a casino
operator shall issue an information return to each person with respect to whom
an amount has been deducted and withheld during the preceding calendar year.
The information return shall show the total amount of municipal income tax
deducted from the person’s winnings during the preceding year. The casino
operator shall provide to the Tax Administrator a copy of each information
return issued under this division (c)(1). The Administrator may require that
such copies be transmitted electronically.
      (4)   A casino operator that fails to file a return and remit the amounts
deducted and withheld shall be personally liable for the amount withheld and
not remitted. Such personal liability extends to any penalty and interest
imposed for the late filing of a return or the late payment of tax deducted and
withheld.
      (5)   If a casino operator sells the casino facility or otherwise quits
the casino business, the amounts deducted and withheld along with any penalties
and interest thereon are immediately due and payable. The successor shall
withhold an amount of the purchase money that is sufficient to cover the
amounts deducted and withheld along with any penalties and interest thereon
until the predecessor casino operator produces either of the following:
         (a)   A receipt from the Tax Administrator showing that the amounts
deducted and withheld and penalties and interest thereon have been paid; or
         (b)   A certificate from the Tax Administrator indicating that no
amounts are due. If the successor fails to withhold purchase money, the
successor is personally liable for the payment of the amounts deducted and
withheld and penalties and interest thereon.
      (6)   The failure of a casino operator to deduct and withhold the
required amount from a person’s winnings does not relieve that person from
liability for the municipal income tax with respect to those winnings.
   (d)   If a person’s prize award from a video lottery terminal is an amount
for which reporting to the Internal Revenue Service is required by § 6041 of
the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, the video lottery sales agent shall
deduct and withhold municipal income tax from the person’s prize award at the
rate of the tax imposed by the municipal corporation in which the video lottery
terminal facility is located.
   (e)   Amounts deducted and withheld by a video lottery sales agent are held
in trust for the benefit of the municipal corporation to which the tax is owed.
      (1)   The video lottery sales agent shall issue to a person from whose
prize award an amount has been deducted and withheld a receipt for the amount
deducted and withheld, and shall obtain from the person receiving a prize award
the person’s name, address and Social Security number in order to facilitate
the preparation of returns required by this section.
      (2)   On or before the tenth day of each month, the video lottery sales
agent shall file a return electronically with the Tax Administrator of the
municipality providing the names, addresses and Social Security numbers of the
persons from whose prize awards amounts were deducted and withheld, the amount
of each such deduction and withholding during the preceding calendar month, the
amount of the prize award from which each such amount was withheld, and any
other information required by the Tax Administrator. With the return, the video
lottery sales agent shall remit electronically to the Tax Administrator all
amounts deducted and withheld during the preceding month.
      (3)   A video lottery sales agent shall maintain a record of all receipts
issued under division (e) of this section and shall make those records
available to the Tax Administrator upon request. Such records shall be
maintained in accordance with R.C. § 5747.17 and any rules adopted pursuant
thereto.
      (4)   Annually, on or before the thirty-first day of January, each video
lottery terminal sales agent shall file an annual return electronically with
the Tax Administrator of the municipal corporation in which the facility is
located indicating the total amount deducted and withheld during the preceding
calendar year. The video lottery sales agent shall remit electronically with
the annual return any amount that was deducted and withheld and that was not
previously remitted. If the name, address or Social Security number of a person
or the amount deducted and withheld with respect to that person was omitted on
a monthly return for that reporting period, that information shall be indicated
on the annual return.
      (5)   Annually, on or before the thirty-first day of January, a video
lottery sales agent shall issue an information return to each person with
respect to whom an amount has been deducted and withheld during the preceding
calendar year. The information return shall show the total amount of municipal
income tax deducted and withheld from the person’s prize award by the video
lottery sales agent during the preceding year. A video lottery sales agent
shall provide to the Tax Administrator of the municipal corporation a copy of
each information return issued under this division. The Tax Administrator may
require that such copies be transmitted electronically.
      (6)   A video lottery sales agent who fails to file a return and remit
the amounts deducted and withheld is personally liable for the amount deducted
and withheld and not remitted. Such personal liability extends to any penalty
and interest imposed for the late filing of a return or the late payment of tax
deducted and withheld.
   (f)   If a video lottery sales agent ceases to operate video lottery
terminals, the amounts deducted and withheld along with any penalties and
interest thereon are immediately due and payable. The successor of the video
lottery sales agent that purchases the video lottery terminals from the agent
shall withhold an amount from the purchase money that is sufficient to cover
the amounts deducted and withheld and any penalties and interest thereon until
the predecessor video lottery sales agent operator produces either of the
following:
      (1)   A receipt from the Tax Administrator showing that the amounts
deducted and withheld and penalties and interest thereon have been paid; or
      (2)   A certificate from the Tax Administrator indicating that no amounts
are due. If the successor fails to withhold purchase money, the successor is
personally liable for the payment of the amounts deducted and withheld and
penalties and interest thereon.
   (g)   The failure of a video lottery sales agent to deduct and withhold the
required amount from a person’s prize award does not relieve that person from
liability for the municipal income tax with respect to that prize award.
   (h)   If a casino operator or lottery sales agent files a return late, fails
to file a return, remits amounts deducted and withheld late or fails to remit
amounts deducted and withheld as required under this section, the Tax
Administrator of a municipal corporation may impose the following applicable
penalty:
      (1)   For the late remittance of, or failure to remit, tax deducted and
withheld under this section, a penalty equal to 50% of the tax deducted and
withheld; or
      (2)   For the failure to file, or the late filing of, a monthly or annual
return, a penalty of $500 for each return not filed or filed late. Interest
shall accrue on past due amounts deducted and withheld at the rate prescribed
in R.C. § 5703.47.
   (i)   Amounts deducted and withheld on behalf of a municipal corporation
shall be allowed as a credit against payment of the tax imposed by the
municipal corporation and shall be treated as taxes paid for purposes of §
880.18. This division (i) applies only to the person for whom the amount is
deducted and withheld.
   (j)   The Tax Administrator shall prescribe the forms of the receipts and
returns required under this section.
(Source: R.C. § 718.031)
(Ord. 21-2015, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 880.13 INCOME SUBJECT TO NET PROFIT TAX; DETERMINING MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME
FOR TAXPAYERS WHO ARE NOT INDIVIDUALS.
   Municipal taxable income for a taxpayer who is not an individual for the
municipality is calculated as follows:
   (a)   Income reduced by exempt income to the extent otherwise included in
income, multiplied by apportionment, further reduced by any pre-2017 net
operating loss carryforward equals municipal taxable income.
   (b)   Income for a taxpayer that is not an individual means the net profit
of the taxpayer:
      (1)   Net profit for a person other than an individual is defined in §
880.06(c)(23); and
      (2)   Adjusted federal taxable income is defined in §
880.06(c)(1) of this chapter.
   (c)   Exempt income is defined in §
880.06(c)(11) of this chapter.
   (d)   Apportionment means the apportionment as determined by §
880.14.
   (e)   Pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward is defined in §
880.06(c)(32) of this chapter.
(Source: R.C. § 718.01)
(Ord. 21-2015, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 880.14 INCOME SUBJECT TO NET PROFIT TAX; NET PROFIT; INCOME SUBJECT TO NET
PROFIT TAX; ALTERNATIVE APPORTIONMENT.
   This section applies to any taxpayer engaged in a business or profession in
the municipality unless the taxpayer is an individual who resides in the
municipality or the taxpayer is an electric company, combined company or
telephone company that is subject to and required to file reports under R.C.
Ch. 5745.
   (a)   Net profit from a business or profession conducted both within and
without the boundaries of the municipality shall be considered as having a
taxable situs in the municipality for purposes of municipal income taxation in
the same proportion as the average ratio of the following:
      (1)   A.   The average original cost of the real property and tangible
personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in the business or profession
in the municipality during the taxable period to the average original cost of
all of the real and tangible personal property owned or used by the taxpayer In
the business or profession during the same period, wherever situated.
         B.   As used in division (a)(1)A. above, tangible personal or real
property shall include property rented or leased by the taxpayer and the value
of such property shall be determined by multiplying the annual rental thereon
by eight.
      (2)   Wages, salaries and other compensation paid during the taxable
period to individuals employed in the business or profession for services
performed in the municipality to wages, salaries and other compensation paid
during the same period to individuals employed in the business or profession,
wherever the individual’s services are performed, excluding compensation from
which taxes are not required to be withheld under §
880.11.
      (3)   Total gross receipts of the business or profession from sales and
rentals made and services performed during the taxable period in the
municipality to total gross receipts of the business or profession during the
same period from sales, rentals and services, wherever made or performed.
   (b)   (1)   If the apportionment factors described in division (a) above do
not fairly represent the extent of a taxpayer’s business activity in the
municipality, the taxpayer may request, or the Tax Administrator of the
municipality may require, that the taxpayer use, with respect to all or any
portion of the income of the taxpayer, an alternative apportionment method
involving one or more of the following:
         A.   Separate accounting;
         B.   The exclusion of one or more of the factors;
         C.   The inclusion of one or more additional factors that would
provide for a more fair apportionment of the income of the taxpayer to the
municipality; and/or
         D.   A modification of one or more of the factors.
      (2)   A taxpayer request to use an alternative apportionment method shall
be in writing and shall accompany a tax return, timely filed appeal of an
assessment, or timely filed amended tax return. The taxpayer may use the
requested alternative method unless the Tax Administrator denies the request in
an assessment issued within the period prescribed by §
880.42(a) of this chapter.
      (3)   A Tax Administrator may require a taxpayer to use an alternative
apportionment method as described in division (b)(1) of this section only by
issuing an assessment to the taxpayer within the period prescribed by §
880.42(a) of this chapter.
      (4)   Nothing in this division (b) nullifies or otherwise affects any
alternative apportionment arrangement approved by a Tax Administrator or
otherwise agreed upon by both the Tax Administrator and taxpayer before January
1, 2016.
   (c)   As used in division (a)(2) of this section, wages, salaries and other
compensation includes only wages, salaries or other compensation paid to an
employee for services performed at any of the following locations:
      (1)   A location that is owned, controlled, or used by, rented to or
under the possession of one of the following:
         A.   The employer;
         B.   A vendor, customer, client or patient of the employer, or a
related member of such a vendor, customer, client or patient; or
         C.   A vendor, customer, client or patient of a person described in
division (c)(1)B. above, or a related member of such a vendor, customer, client
or patient.
      (2)   Any location at which a trial, appeal, hearing, investigation,
inquiry, review, court-martial or similar administrative, judicial or
legislative matter or proceeding is being conducted, provided that the
compensation is paid for services performed for, or on behalf of, the employer
or that the employee’s presence at the location directly or indirectly benefits
the employer; and
      (3)   Any other location, if the Tax Administrator determines that the
employer directed the employee to perform the services at the other location in
lieu of a location described in division (c)(1) or (2) of this section solely
in order to avoid or reduce the employer’s municipal income tax liability. If a
Tax Administrator makes such a determination, the employer may dispute the
determination by establishing, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the Tax
Administrator’s determination was unreasonable.
   (d)   For the purposes of division (a)(3) above, receipts from sales and
rentals made and services performed shall be sitused to a municipal corporation
as follows:
      (1)   Gross receipts from the sale of tangible personal property shall be
sitused to the municipal corporation in which the sale originated. For the
purposes of this division (d), a sale of property originates in a municipal
corporation if, regardless of where title passes, the property meets any of the
following criteria:
         A.   The property is shipped to or delivered within the municipal
corporation from a stock of goods located within the municipal corporation;
         B.   The property is delivered within the municipal corporation from a
location outside the municipal corporation, provided the taxpayer is regularly
engaged through its own employees in the solicitation or promotion of sales
within such municipal corporation and the sales result from such solicitation
or promotion; or
         C.   The property is shipped from a place within the municipal
corporation to purchasers outside the municipal corporation, provided that the
taxpayer is not, through its own employees, regularly engaged in the
solicitation or promotion of sales at the place where delivery is made.
      (2)   Gross receipts from the sale of services shall be sitused to the
municipal corporation to the extent that such services are performed in the
municipal corporation;
      (3)   To the extent included in income, gross receipts from the sale of
real property located in the municipal corporation shall be sitused to the
municipal corporation;
      (4)   To the extent included in income, gross receipts from rents and
royalties from real property located in the municipal corporation shall be
sitused to the municipal corporation; and
      (5)   Gross receipts from rents and royalties from tangible personal
property shall be sitused to the municipal corporation based upon the extent to
which the tangible personal property is used in the municipal corporation.
   (e)   The net profit received by an individual taxpayer from the rental of
real estate owned-directly by the individual or by a disregarded entity owned
by the individual shall be subject to tax only by the municipal corporation in
which the property generating the net profit is located and the municipal
corporation in which the individual taxpayer that receives the net profit
resides. A municipal corporation shall allow such taxpayers to elect to use
separate accounting for the purpose of calculating net profit sitused under
this division to the municipal corporation in which the property is located.
   (f)   (1)   Except as provided in division (f)(2) below, commissions
received by a real estate agent or broker relating to the sale, purchase or
lease of real estate shall be sitused to the municipal corporation in which the
real estate is located. Net profit reported by the real estate agent or broker
shall be allocated to a municipal corporation based upon the ratio of the
commissions the agent or broker received from the sale, purchase or lease of
real estate located in the municipal corporation to the commissions received
from the sale, purchase or lease of real estate everywhere in the taxable year.
      (2)   An individual who is a resident of a municipal corporation that
imposes a municipal income tax shall report the individual’s net profit from
all real estate activity on the individual’s annual tax return for that
municipal corporation. The individual may claim a credit for taxes the
individual paid on such net profit to another municipal corporation to the
extent that such credit is allowed under §
880.20 of this chapter.
   (g)   (1)   If, in computing a taxpayer’s adjusted federal taxable income,
the taxpayer deducted any amount with respect to a stock option granted to an
employee, and if the employee is not required to include in the employee’s
income any such amount or a portion thereof because it is exempted from
taxation under §
880.06(c)(11)L., by a municipal corporation to which the taxpayer has
apportioned a portion of its net profit, the taxpayer shall add the amount that
is exempt from taxation to the taxpayer’s net profit that was apportioned to
that municipal corporation. In no case shall a taxpayer be required to add to
its net profit that was apportioned to that municipal corporation any amount
other than the amount upon which the employee would be required to pay tax were
the amount related to the stock option not exempted from taxation.
      (2)   This division applies solely for the purpose of making an
adjustment to the amount of a taxpayer’s net profit that was apportioned to a
municipal corporation under this section.
   (h)   When calculating the ratios described in division (a) above for the
purposes of that division or division (b) above, the owner of a disregarded
entity shall include in the owner’s ratios the property, payroll and gross
receipts of such disregarded entity.
(Source: R.C. § 718.02)
(Ord. 21-2015, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 880.15 INCOME SUBJECT TO NET PROFIT TAX; CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL INCOME TAX
RETURN.
   (a)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Affiliated group of corporations.” An affiliated group as defined
in § 1504 of the Internal Revenue Code, except that, if such a group includes
at least one incumbent local exchange carrier that is primarily engaged in the
business of providing local exchange telephone service in this state, the
affiliated group shall not include any incumbent local exchange carrier that
would otherwise be included in the group.
      (2)   “Consolidated federal income tax return.” A consolidated return
filed for federal income tax purposes pursuant to § 1501 of the Internal
Revenue Code.
      (3)   “Consolidated federal taxable income.” The consolidated taxable
income of an affiliated group of corporations, as computed for the purposes of
filing a consolidated federal income tax return, before consideration of net
operating losses or special deductions. “Consolidated federal taxable income”
does not include income or loss of an incumbent local exchange carrier that is
excluded from the affiliated group under division (a)(1) above.
      (4)   “Incumbent local exchange carrier.” Has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 4927.01.
      (5)   “Local exchange telephone service.” Has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 5727.01.
   (b)   (1)   For taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2016, a
taxpayer that is a member of an affiliated group of corporations may elect to
file a consolidated municipal income tax return for a taxable year if at least
one member of the affiliated group of corporations is subject to the municipal
income tax in that taxable year and if the affiliated group of corporations
filed a consolidated federal income tax return with respect to that taxable
year.
         A.   The election is binding for a five-year period beginning with the
first taxable year of the initial election unless a change in the reporting
method is required under federal law.
         B.   The election continues to be binding for each subsequent five-
year period unless the taxpayer elects to discontinue filing consolidated
municipal income tax returns under division (b)(2) below; or
         C.   A taxpayer receives permission from the Tax Administrator. The
Tax Administrator shall approve such a request for good cause shown.
      (2)   An election to discontinue filing consolidated municipal income tax
returns under this section must be made in the first year following the last
year of a five-year consolidated municipal income tax return election period in
effect under division (b)(1) above. The election to discontinue filing a
consolidated municipal income tax return is binding for a five-year period
beginning with the first taxable year of the election.
      (3)   An election made under division (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section is
binding on all members of the affiliated group of corporations subject to a
municipal income tax.
   (c)   A taxpayer that is a member of an affiliated group of corporations
that filed a consolidated federal income tax return for a taxable year shall
file a consolidated municipal income tax return for that taxable year if the
Tax Administrator determines, by a preponderance of the evidence, that
intercompany transactions have not been conducted at arm’s length and that
there has been a distortive shifting of income or expenses with regard to
allocation of net profits to the municipal corporation. A taxpayer that is
required to file a consolidated municipal income tax return for a taxable year
shall file a consolidated municipal income tax return for all subsequent
taxable years unless the taxpayer requests and receives written permission from
the Tax Administrator to file a separate return or a taxpayer has experienced a
change in circumstances.
   (d)   A taxpayer shall prepare a consolidated municipal income tax return in
the same manner as is required under the United States Department of Treasury
regulations that prescribe procedures for the preparation of the consolidated
federal income tax return required to be filed by the common parent of the
affiliated group of which the taxpayer is a member.
   (e)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (e)(2), (e)(3), and
(e)(4) below, corporations that file a consolidated municipal income tax return
shall compute adjusted federal taxable income, as defined in §
880.06(c)(1) of this chapter, by substituting “consolidated federal taxable
income” for “federal taxable income” wherever “federal taxable income” appears
in that division and by substituting “an affiliated group of corporation’s” for
“a C corporation’s” wherever “a C corporation’s” appears in that division.
      (2)   No corporation filing a consolidated municipal income tax return
shall make any adjustment otherwise required under §
880.06(c)(1) of this chapter to the extent that the item of income or deduction
otherwise subject to the adjustment has been eliminated or consolidated in the
computation of consolidated federal taxable income.
      (3)   If the net profit or loss of a pass-through entity having at least
80% of the value of its ownership interest owned or controlled, directly or
indirectly, by an affiliated group of corporations is included in that
affiliated group’s consolidated federal taxable income for a taxable year, the
corporation filing a consolidated municipal income tax return shall do one of
the following with respect to that pass-through entity’s net profit or loss for
that taxable year:
         A.   Exclude the pass-through entity’s net profit or loss from the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purpose of making the computations required in §
880.14, exclude the property, payroll and gross receipts of the pass-through
entity in the computation of the affiliated group’s net profit sitused to a
municipal corporation. If the entity’s net profit or loss is so excluded, the
entity shall be subject to taxation as a separate taxpayer on the basis of the
entity’s net profits that would otherwise be included in the consolidated
federal taxable income of the affiliated group.
         B.   Include the pass-through entity’s net profit or loss in the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purpose of making the computations required in §
880.14, include the property, payroll and gross receipts of the pass-through
entity in the computation of the affiliated group’s net profit sitused to a
municipal corporation. If the entity’s net profit or loss is so included, the
entity shall not be subject to taxation as a separate taxpayer on the basis of
the entity’s net profits that are included in the consolidated federal taxable
income of the affiliated group.
      (4)   If the net profit or loss of a pass-through entity having less than
80% of the value of its ownership interest owned or controlled, directly or
indirectly, by an affiliated group of corporations is included in that
affiliated group’s consolidated federal taxable income for a taxable year, all
of the following shall apply:
         A.   The corporation filing the consolidated municipal income tax
return shall exclude the pass-through entity’s net profit or loss from the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purposes of making the computations required in §
880.14, exclude the property, payroll and gross receipts of the pass-through
entity in the computation of the affiliated group’s net profit sitused to a
municipal corporation; and
         B.   The pass-through entity shall be subject to municipal income
taxation as a separate taxpayer in accordance with this chapter on the basis of
the entity’s net profits that would otherwise be included in the consolidated
federal taxable income of the affiliated group.
   (f)   Corporations filing a consolidated municipal income tax return shall
make the computations required under §
880.14 by substituting “consolidated federal taxable income attributable to”
for “net profit from” wherever “net profit from” appears in that section and by
substituting “affiliated group of corporations” for “taxpayer” wherever
“taxpayer” appears in that section.
   (g)   Each corporation filing a consolidated municipal income tax return is
jointly and severally liable for any tax, interest, penalties, fines, charges
or other amounts imposed by a municipal corporation in accordance with this
chapter on the corporation, an affiliated group of which the corporation is a
member for any portion of the taxable year, or any one or more members of such
an affiliated group.
   (h)   Corporations and their affiliates that made an election or entered
into an agreement with a municipal corporation before January 1, 2016, to file
a consolidated or combined tax return with such municipal corporation may
continue to file consolidated or combined tax returns in accordance with such
election or agreement for taxable years beginning on and after January 1, 2016.
(Source: R.C. § 718.06)
(Ord. 21-2015, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 880.16 INCOME SUBJECT TO NET PROFIT TAX; TAX CREDIT FOR BUSINESSES THAT
FOSTER NEW JOBS IN OHIO.
   The municipality, by ordinance, may grant a refundable or nonrefundable
credit against its tax on income to a taxpayer to foster job creation in the
municipality. If a credit is granted under this section, it shall be measured
as a percentage of the new income tax revenue the municipality derives from new
employees of the taxpayer and shall be for a term not exceeding 15 years.
Before the municipality passes an ordinance granting a credit, the municipality
and the taxpayer shall enter into an agreement specifying all the conditions of
the credit.
(Source: R.C. § 718.15)
(Ord. 21-2015, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 880.17 INCOME SUBJECT TO NET PROFIT TAX; TAX CREDITS TO FOSTER JOB RETENTION.
   The municipality, by ordinance, may grant a refundable or nonrefundable
credit against its tax on income to a taxpayer for the purpose of fostering job
retention in the municipality. If a credit is granted under this section, it
shall be measured as a percentage of the income tax revenue the municipality
derives from the retained employees of the taxpayer, and shall be for a term
not exceeding 15 years. Before the municipality passes an ordinance allowing
such a credit, the municipality and the taxpayer shall enter into an agreement
specifying all the conditions of the credit.
(Source: R.C. § 718.151)
(Ord. 21-2015, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 880.18 DECLARATION OF ESTIMATED TAX.
   (a)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Estimated taxes.” The amount that the taxpayer reasonably
estimates to be the taxpayer’s tax liability for a municipal corporation’s
income tax for the current taxable year.
      (2)   “Tax liability.” The total taxes due to a municipal corporation for
the taxable year, after allowing any credit to which the taxpayer is entitled,
and after applying any estimated tax payment, withholding payment or credit
from another taxable year.
   (b)   (1)   Every taxpayer shall make a declaration of estimated taxes for
the current taxable year, on the form prescribed by the Tax Administrator, if
the amount payable as estimated taxes is at least $200. For the purposes of
this section:
         A.   Taxes withheld from qualifying wages shall be considered as paid
to the municipal corporation for which the taxes were withheld in equal amounts
on each payment date. If the taxpayer establishes the dates on which all
amounts were actually withheld, the amounts withheld shall be considered as
paid on the dates on which the amounts were actually withheld;
         B.   An overpayment of tax applied as a credit to a subsequent taxable
year is deemed to be paid on the date of the postmark stamped on the cover in
which the payment is mailed or, if the payment is made by electronic funds
transfer, the date the payment is submitted. As used in this division (b)(1),
“date of the postmark” means, in the event there is more than one date on the
cover, the earliest date imprinted on the cover by the postal service;
         C.   A taxpayer having a taxable year of less than 12 months shall
make a declaration under rules prescribed by the Tax Administrator; and
         D.   Taxes withheld by a casino operator or by a lottery sales agent
under R.C. § 718.031 are deemed to be paid to the municipal corporation for
which the taxes were withheld on the date the taxes are withheld from the
taxpayer’s winnings.
      (2)   Taxpayers filing joint returns shall file joint declarations of
estimated taxes.
      (3)   The declaration of estimated taxes shall be filed on or before the
date prescribed for the filing of municipal income tax returns under §
880.24(g) of this chapter or on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month
of the first taxable year after the taxpayer becomes subject to tax for the
first time.
      (4)   Taxpayers reporting on a fiscal year basis shall file a declaration
on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month after the beginning of each
fiscal year or period.
      (5)   The original declaration or any subsequent amendment may be
increased or decreased on or before any subsequent quarterly payment day as
provided in this section.
   (c)   (1)   The required portion of the tax liability for the taxable year
that shall be paid through estimated taxes made payable to the municipality or
Tax Administrator, including the application of tax refunds to estimated taxes
and withholding on or before the applicable payment date, shall be as follows:
         A.   On or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, 22.5% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
         B.   On or before the fifteenth day of the sixth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, 45% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
         C.   On or before the fifteenth day of the ninth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, 67.5% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
and
         D.   On or before the fifteenth day of the twelfth month of the
taxable year, 90% of the tax liability for the taxable year.
      (2)   A taxpayer may amend a declaration under rules prescribed by the
Tax Administrator. When an amended declaration has been filed, the unpaid
balance shown due on the amended declaration shall be paid in equal
installments on or before the remaining payment dates. The amended declaration
must be filed on the next applicable due date as outlined in (c)(1)A. through
(c)(1)D. of this section.
      (3)   On or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month of the year
following that for which the declaration or amended declaration was filed, an
annual return shall be filed and any balance which may be due shall be paid
with the return in accordance with §
880.24 of this chapter.
         A.   For taxpayers who are individuals, or who are not individuals and
are reporting and filing on a calendar year basis, the annual tax return is due
on the same date as the filing of the federal tax return, unless extended
pursuant to R.C. § 5747.08(G).
         B.   For taxpayers who are not individuals, and are reporting and
filing on a fiscal year basis or any period other than a calendar year, the
annual return is due on the fifteenth day of the fourth month following the end
of the taxable year or period.
      (4)   An amended declaration is required whenever the taxpayer’s
estimated tax liability changes during the taxable year. A change in estimated
tax liability may either increase or decrease the estimated tax liability for
the taxable year.
   (d)   (1)   In the case of any underpayment of any portion of a tax
liability, penalty and interest may be imposed pursuant to §
880.29 of this chapter upon the amount of underpayment for the period of
underpayment, unless the underpayment is due to reasonable cause as described
in division (e) below. The amount of the underpayment shall be determined as
follows:
         A.   For the first payment of estimated taxes each year, 22.5% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment;
         B.   For the second payment of estimated taxes each year, 45% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment;
         C.   For the third payment of estimated taxes each year, 67.5% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment; and
         D.   For the fourth payment of estimated taxes each year, 90% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment.
      (2)   The period of the underpayment shall run from the day the estimated
payment was required to be made to the date on which the payment is made. For
purposes of this section, a payment of estimated taxes on or before any payment
date shall be considered a payment of any previous underpayment only to the
extent the payment of estimated taxes exceeds the amount of the payment
presently required to be paid to avoid any penalty.
   (e)   An underpayment of any portion of tax liability determined under
division (d) above shall be due to reasonable cause and the penalty imposed by
this section shall not be added to the taxes for the taxable year if any of the
following apply:
      (1)   The amount of estimated taxes that were paid equals at least 90% of
the tax liability for the current taxable year, determined by annualizing the
income received during the year up to the end of the month immediately
preceding the month in which the payment is due;
      (2)   The amount of estimated taxes that were paid equals at least 100%
of the tax liability shown on the return of the taxpayer for the preceding
taxable year, provided that the immediately preceding taxable year reflected a
period of 12 months and the taxpayer filed a return with the municipal
corporation under §
880.24 of this chapter for that year; and
      (3)   The taxpayer is an individual who resides in the municipality but
was not domiciled there on the first day of January of the calendar year that
includes the first day of the taxable year.
   (f)   A Tax Administrator may waive the requirement for filing a declaration
of estimated taxes for any class of taxpayers after finding that the waiver is
reasonable and proper in view of administrative costs and other factors.
(Source: R.C. § 718.08)
(Ord. 21-2015, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 880.19 CREDIT FOR TAX PAID TO ANOTHER MUNICIPALITY.
   There shall be no credit against the municipal taxable income due the
village for income tax paid to other municipalities.
(Ord. 21-2015, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 880.20 REFUNDABLE CREDIT FOR QUALIFYING LOSS.
   (a)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Nonqualified deferred compensation plan.” A compensation plan
described in § 3121(v)(2)(C) of the Internal Revenue Code.
      (2)   A.   Except as provided in division (a)(2)B. of this section,
“qualifying loss” means the excess, if any, of the total amount of compensation
the payment of which is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified deferred
compensation plan over the total amount of income the taxpayer has recognized
for federal income tax purposes for all taxable years on a cumulative basis as
compensation with respect to the taxpayer’s receipt of money and property
attributable to distributions in connection with the nonqualified deferred
compensation plan.
         B.   If, for one or more taxable years, the taxpayer has not paid to
one or more municipal corporations income tax imposed on the entire amount of
compensation, the payment of which is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified
deferred compensation plan, then the “qualifying loss” is the product of the
amount resulting from the calculation described in division (a)(2)A. of this
section computed without regard to division (a)(2)B. of this section and a
fraction the numerator of which is the portion of such compensation on which
the taxpayer has paid income tax to one or more municipal corporations and the
denominator of which is the total amount of compensation the payment of which
is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
         C.   With respect to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan, the
taxpayer sustains a qualifying loss only in the taxable year in which the
taxpayer receives the final distribution of money and property pursuant to that
nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
      (3)   “Qualifying tax rate.” The applicable tax rate for the taxable year
for the which the taxpayer paid income tax to a municipal corporation with
respect to any portion of the total amount of compensation the payment of which
is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan. If different
tax rates applied for different taxable years, then the “qualifying tax rate”
is a weighted average of those different tax rates. The weighted average shall
be based upon the tax paid to the municipal corporation each year with respect
to the nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
   (b)   (1)   Except as provided in division (d) below, a refundable credit
shall be allowed against the income tax imposed by a municipal corporation for
each qualifying loss sustained by a taxpayer during the taxable year. The
amount of the credit shall be equal to the product of the qualifying loss and
the qualifying tax rate.
      (2)   A taxpayer shall claim the credit allowed under this section from
each municipal corporation to which the taxpayer paid municipal income tax with
respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation plan in one or more taxable
years.
      (3)   If a taxpayer has paid tax to more than one municipal corporation
with respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation plan, the amount of the
credit that a taxpayer may claim from each municipal corporation shall be
calculated on the basis of each municipal corporation’s proportionate share of
the total municipal corporation income tax paid by the taxpayer to all
municipal corporations with respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation
plan.
      (4)   In no case shall the amount of the credit allowed under this
section exceed the cumulative income tax that a taxpayer has paid to a
municipal corporation for all taxable years with respect to the nonqualified
deferred compensation plan.
   (c)   (1)   For purposes of this section, municipal corporation income tax
that has been withheld with respect to a nonqualified deferred compensation
plan shall be considered to have been paid by the taxpayer with respect to the
nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
      (2)   Any municipal income tax that has been refunded or otherwise
credited for the benefit of the taxpayer with respect to a nonqualified
deferred compensation plan shall not be considered to have been paid to the
municipal corporation by the taxpayer.
   (d)   The credit allowed under this section is allowed only to the extent
the taxpayer’s qualifying loss is attributable to:
      (1)   The insolvency or bankruptcy of the employer who had established
the nonqualified deferred compensation plan; or
      (2)   The employee’s failure or inability to satisfy all of the
employer’s terms and conditions necessary to receive the nonqualified deferred
compensation.
(Source: R.C. § 718.021)
(Ord. 21-2015, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 880.21 CREDIT FOR PERSON WORKING IN JOINT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT.
 
   A municipality shall grant a credit against its tax on income to a resident
of the municipality who works in a joint economic development zone created
under R.C. § 715.691 or a joint economic development district created under
R.C. §§ 715.70, 715.71 or 715.72 to the same extent that it grants a credit
against its tax on income to its residents who are employed in another
municipal corporation, pursuant to §
880.19 of this chapter.
(Source: R.C. § 718.16)
(Ord. 21-2015, passed 11-9-2015)
 
§ 880.22 CREDIT FOR TAX BEYOND STATUTE FOR OBTAINING REFUND.
   (a)   Income tax that has been deposited or paid to the municipality, but
should have been deposited or paid to another municipal corporation, is
allowable by the municipality as a refund, but is subject to the three-year
limitation on refunds as provided in §
880.28.
   (b)   Income tax that should have been deposited or paid to the
municipality, but was deposited or paid to another municipal corporation, shall
be subject to collection and recovery by the municipality. To the extent a
refund of such tax or withholding is barred by the limitation on refunds as
provided in §
880.28, the municipality will allow a non-refundable credit equal to the tax or
withholding paid to the other municipality against the income tax the
municipality claims is due. If the municipality’s tax rate is higher, the tax
representing the net difference of the tax rates is also subject to collection
by the municipality, along with any penalty and interest accruing during the
period of nonpayment.
   (c)   No carryforward of credit will be permitted when the overpayment is
beyond the three-year limitation for refunding of same as provided in §
880.28.
   (d)   Nothing in this section requires a municipality to allow credit for
tax paid to another municipal corporation if the municipality has reduced
credit for tax paid to another municipal corporation. Section 880.20 of this
chapter regarding any limitation on credit shall prevail.
(Source: R.C. § 718.121)
(Ord. 21-2015, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 880.23 ANNUAL RETURN; RETURN AND PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (a)   (1)   An annual return with respect to the income tax levied on
municipal taxable income by the municipality shall be completed and filed by
every taxpayer for any taxable year for which the taxpayer is subject to the
tax, regardless of whether or not income tax is due.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator shall accept on behalf of all nonresident
individual taxpayers a return filed by an employer, agent of an employer or
other payer located in the municipality under §
880.10(c) of this chapter when the nonresident individual taxpayer’s sole
income subject to the tax is the qualifying wages reported by the employer,
agent of an employer or other payer, and no additional tax is due to the
municipality.
      (3)   All resident individual taxpayers, 18 years of age and older, shall
file an annual municipal income tax return with the municipality, regardless of
income or liability.
   (b)   If an individual is deceased, any return or notice required of that
individual shall be completed and filed by that decedent’s executor,
administrator or other person charged with the property of that decedent.
   (c)   If an individual is unable to complete and file a return or notice
required by the municipality in accordance with this chapter, the return or
notice required of that individual shall be completed and filed by the
individual’s duly authorized agent, guardian, conservator, fiduciary or other
person charged with the care of the person or property of that individual. Such
duly authorized agent, guardian, conservator, fiduciary or other person charged
with the care of the person or property of that individual shall provide, with
the filing of the return, appropriate documentation to support that they are
authorized to file a return or notice on behalf of the taxpayer. This notice
shall include any legally binding authorizations, and contact information
including name, address, and phone number of the duly authorized agent,
guardian, conservator, fiduciary or other person.
   (d)   Returns or notices required of an estate or a trust shall be completed
and filed by the fiduciary of the estate or trust. Such fiduciary shall
provide, with the filing of the return, appropriate documentation to support
that they are authorized to file a return or notice on behalf of the taxpayer.
This notice shall include any legally binding authorizations, and contact
information including name, address and phone number of the fiduciary.
   (e)   No municipal corporation shall deny spouses the ability to file a
joint return.
   (f)   (1)   Each return required to be filed under this section shall
contain the signature of the taxpayer or the taxpayer’s duly authorized agent
and of the person who prepared the return for the taxpayer, and shall include
the taxpayer’s Social Security number or taxpayer identification number. Each
return shall be verified by a declaration under penalty of perjury.
      (2)   A taxpayer who is an individual is required to include, with each
annual return, amended return, or request for refund required under this
section, copies of only the following documents: all of the taxpayer’s Internal
Revenue Service form W-2, “Wage and Tax Statements,” including all information
reported on the taxpayer’s federal W-2, as well as taxable wages reported or
withheld for any municipal corporation; the taxpayer’s Internal Revenue Service
form 1040 or, in the case of a return or request required by a qualified
municipal corporation, Ohio IT 1040; and, with respect to an amended tax return
or refund request, any other documentation necessary to support the refund
request or the adjustments made in the amended return. An individual taxpayer
who files the annual return required by this section electronically is not
required to provide paper copies of any of the foregoing to the Tax
Administrator unless the Tax Administrator requests such copies after the
return has been filed.
      (3)   A taxpayer that is not an individual is required to include, with
each annual net profit return, amended net profit return, or request for refund
required under this section, copies of only the following documents: the
taxpayer’s Internal Revenue Service form 1041, form 1065, form 1120, form 1120-
REIT, form 1120F, or form 1120S, and, with respect to an amended tax return or
refund request, any other documentation necessary to support the refund request
or the adjustments made in the amended return.
      (4)   A taxpayer that is not an individual and that files an annual net
profit return electronically through the Ohio Business Gateway or in some other
manner shall either mail the documents required under this division (f)(4) to
the Tax Administrator at the time of filing or, if electronic submission is
available, submit the documents electronically through the Ohio Business
Gateway or a portal provided by the municipality. The Department of Taxation
shall publish a method of electronically submitting the documents required
under this division (f)(4) through the Ohio Business Gateway on or before
January 1, 2016. The Department shall transmit all documents submitted
electronically under this division to the appropriate Tax Administrator.
      (5)   After a taxpayer files a tax return, the Tax Administrator shall
request, and the taxpayer shall provide, any information, statements or
documents required by the municipality to determine and verify the taxpayer’s
municipal income tax liability. The requirements imposed under this division
(f) apply regardless of whether the taxpayer files on a generic form or on a
form prescribed by the Tax Administrator.
      (6)   Any other documentation, including schedules, other municipal
income tax returns, or other supporting documentation necessary to verify
credits, income, losses or other pertinent factors on the return shall also be
included to avoid delay in processing, or disallowance by the Tax Administrator
of undocumented credits or losses.
   (g)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, each
individual income tax return required to be filed under this section shall be
completed and filed as required by the Tax Administrator on or before the date
prescribed for the filing of state individual income tax returns under R.C. §
5747.08(G). The taxpayer shall complete and file the return or notice on forms
prescribed by the Tax Administrator or on generic forms, together with
remittance made payable to the municipality or Tax Administrator.
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, each annual net
profit income tax return required to be filed under this section by a taxpayer
that is not an individual shall be completed and filed as required by the Tax
Administrator on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month following the
end of the taxpayer’s taxable year or period. The taxpayer shall complete and
file the return or notice on forms prescribed by the Tax Administrator or on
generic forms, together with remittance made payable to the municipality or Tax
Administrator.
         (c)   In the case of individual income tax return required to be filed
by an individual, and net profit income tax return required to be filed by a
taxpayer who is not an individual, no remittance is required if the amount
shown to be due is $10 or less.
      (2)   If the Tax Administrator considers it necessary in order to ensure
the payment of the tax imposed by the municipality in accordance with this
chapter, the Tax Administrator may require taxpayers to file returns and make
payments otherwise than as provided in this section, including taxpayers not
otherwise required to file annual returns.
      (3)   With respect to taxpayers to whom §
880.25 applies, to the extent that any provision in this division conflicts
with any provision in §
880.25, the provision in §
880.25 prevails.
   (h)   (1)   For taxable years beginning after 2015, the municipality shall
not require a taxpayer to remit tax with respect to net profits if the amount
due is $10 or less.
      (2)   Any taxpayer not required to remit tax to the municipality for a
taxable year pursuant to division (h)(1) above shall file with the municipality
an annual net profit return under division (f)(3) and (f)(4) of this section.
   (i)   This division (i) shall not apply to payments required to be made
under §
880.10(b)(1)B. or (b)(1)C.
      (1)   If any report, claim, statement, or other document required to be
filed, or any payment required to be made, within a prescribed period or on or
before a prescribed date under this chapter is delivered after that period or
that to the Tax Administrator or other municipal official with which the
report, claim, statement or other document is required to be filed, or to which
the payment is required to be made, the date of the postmark stamped on the
cover in which the report, claim, statement, or other document, or payment is
mailed shall be deemed to be the date of delivery or the date of payment. “The
date of postmark” means, in the event there is more than one date on the cover,
the earliest date imprinted on the cover by the postal service.
      (2)   If a payment is required to be made by electronic funds transfer,
the payment is considered to be made when the payment is credited to an account
designated by the Tax Administrator for the receipt of tax payments, except
that, when a payment made by electronic funds transfer is delayed due to
circumstances not under the control of the taxpayer, the payment is considered
to be made when the taxpayer submitted the payment. For purposes of this
section, “submitted the payment,” means the date, which the taxpayer has
designated for the delivery of payment, which may or may not be the same date
as the date the payment was initiated by the taxpayer.
   (j)   The amounts withheld for the municipality by an employer, the agent of
an employer, or other payer as described §
880.10 shall be allowed to the recipient of the compensation as credits against
payment of the tax imposed on the recipient unless the amounts withheld were
not remitted to the municipality and the recipient colluded with the employer,
agent or other payer in connection with the failure to remit the amounts
withheld.
   (k)   Each return required by the municipality to be filed in accordance
with this section shall include a box that the taxpayer may check to authorize
another person, including a tax return preparer who prepared the return, to
communicate with the Tax Administrator about matters pertaining to the return.
The return or instructions accompanying the return shall indicate that by
checking the box the taxpayer authorizes the Tax Administrator to contact the
preparer or other person concerning questions that arise during the examination
or other review of the return and authorizes the preparer or other person only
to provide the Tax Administrator with information that is missing from the
return, to contact the Tax Administrator for information about the examination
or other review of the return or the status of the taxpayer’s refund or
payments, and to respond to notices about mathematical errors, offsets or
return preparation that the taxpayer has received from the Tax Administrator
and has shown to the preparer or other person. Authorization by the taxpayer of
another person to communicate with the Tax Administrator about matters
pertaining to the return does not preclude the Tax Administrator from
contacting the taxpayer regarding such matters.
   (l)   The Tax Administrator of the municipality shall accept for filing a
generic form of any income tax return, report, or document required by the
municipality in accordance with this chapter, provided that the generic form,
once completed and filed, contains all of the information required by
ordinances, resolutions or rules adopted by the municipality or Tax
Administrator, and provided that the taxpayer or tax return preparer filing the
generic form otherwise complies with the provisions of this chapter and of the
municipality’s ordinance or resolution governing the filing of returns, reports
or documents.
   (m)   When income tax returns, reports or other documents require the
signature of a tax return preparer, the Tax Administrator shall accept a
facsimile of such a signature in lieu of a manual signature.
   (n)   (1)   As used in this division, “worksite location” has the same
meaning as in §
880.11.
      (2)   A person may notify a Tax Administrator that the person does not
expect to be a taxpayer with respect to the municipal corporation for a taxable
year if both of the following conditions apply:
         A.   The person was required to file a tax return with the municipal
corporation for the immediately preceding taxable year because the person
performed services at a worksite location within the municipal corporation, and
the person has filed all appropriate and required returns and remitted all
applicable income tax and withholding payments as provided by this chapter. The
Tax Administrator is not required to accept an affidavit from a taxpayer who
has not complied with the provisions of this chapter; and
         B.   The person no longer provides services in the municipal
corporation, and does not expect to be subject to the municipal corporation’s
income tax for the taxable year. The person shall provide the notice in a
signed affidavit that briefly explains the person’s circumstances, including
the location of the previous worksite location and the last date on which the
person performed services or made any sales within the municipal corporation.
The affidavit also shall include the following statement: “The affiant has no
plans to perform any services within the municipal corporation, make any sales
in the municipal corporation, or otherwise become subject to the tax levied by
the municipal corporation during the taxable year. If the affiant does become
subject to the tax levied by the municipal corporation for the taxable year,
the affiant agrees to be considered a taxpayer and to properly register as a
taxpayer with the municipal corporation, if such a registration is required by
the municipal corporation’s resolutions, ordinances, or rules.” The person
shall sign the affidavit under penalty of perjury.
         C.   If a person submits an affidavit described in division (n)(2)B.
above, the Tax Administrator shall not require the person to file any tax
return for the taxable year unless the Tax Administrator possesses information
that conflicts with the affidavit or if the circumstances described in the
affidavit change, or the taxpayer has engaged in activity which results in work
being performed, services provided, sales made or other activity that results
in municipal taxable income reportable to the municipality in the taxable year.
It shall be the responsibility of the taxpayer to comply with the provisions of
this chapter relating to the reporting and filing of municipal taxable income
on an annual municipal income tax return, even if an affidavit has been filed
with the Tax Administrator for the taxable year. Nothing in this division (n)
prohibits the Tax Administrator from performing an audit of the person.
(Source: R.C. § 718.05)
(Ord. 21-2015, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 880.24 ANNUAL RETURN; RETURN AND PAYMENT OF TAX; INDIVIDUALS SERVING IN
COMBAT ZONE.
   (a)   Each member of the national guard of any state and each member of a
reserve component of the armed forces of the United States called to active
duty pursuant to an executive order issued by the President of the United
States or an act of the Congress of the United States, and each civilian
serving as support personnel in a combat zone or contingency operation in
support of the armed forces, may apply to the Tax Administrator of the
municipality for both an extension of time for filing of the return and an
extension of time for payment of taxes required by the municipality in
accordance with this chapter during the period of the member’s or civilian’s
duty service and for 180 days thereafter. The application shall be filed on or
before the one hundred eightieth day after the member’s or civilian’s duty
terminates. An applicant shall provide such evidence as the Tax Administrator
considers necessary to demonstrate eligibility for the extension.
   (b)   (1)   If the Tax Administrator ascertains that an applicant is
qualified for an extension under this section, the Tax Administrator shall
enter into a contract with the applicant for the payment of the tax in
installments that begin on the one hundred eighty-first day after the
applicant’s active duty or service terminates. Except as provided in division
(b)(3) below, the Tax Administrator may prescribe such contract terms as the
Tax Administrator considers appropriate.
      (2)   If the Tax Administrator ascertains that an applicant is qualified
for an extension under this section, the applicant shall neither be required to
file any return, report or other tax document nor be required to pay any tax
otherwise due to the municipality before the one hundred eighty-first day after
the applicant’s active duty or service terminates.
      (3)   Taxes paid pursuant to a contract entered into under division (b)
(1) above are not delinquent. The Tax Administrator shall not require any
payments of penalties or interest in connection with those taxes for the
extension period.
   (c)   (1)   Nothing in this division (c) denies to any person described in
this division (c) the application of divisions (a) and (b) above.
      (2)   A.   A qualifying taxpayer who is eligible for an extension under
the Internal Revenue Code shall receive both an extension of time in which to
file any return, report or other tax document and an extension of time in which
to make any payment of taxes required by the municipality in accordance with
this chapter. The length of any extension granted under this division (c)(2)A.
shall be equal to the length of the corresponding extension that the taxpayer
receives under the Internal Revenue Code. As used in this section, “qualifying
taxpayer” means a member of the national guard or a member of a reserve
component of the armed forces of the United States called to active duty
pursuant to either an executive order issued by the President of the United
States or an act of the Congress of the United States, or a civilian serving as
support personnel in a combat zone or contingency operation in support of the
armed forces.
         B.   Taxes the payment of which is extended in accordance with
division (c)(2)A. above are not delinquent during the extension period. Such
taxes become delinquent on the first day after the expiration of the extension
period if the taxes are not paid prior to that date. The Tax Administrator
shall not require any payment of penalties or interest in connection with those
taxes for the extension period. The Tax Administrator shall not include any
period of extension granted under division (c)(2)A. above in calculating the
penalty or interest due on any unpaid tax.
   (d)   For each taxable year to which division (a), (b) or (c) above applies
to a taxpayer, the provisions of divisions (b)(2) and (3) or (c) above, as
applicable, apply to the spouse of that taxpayer if the filing status of the
spouse and the taxpayer is married filing jointly for that year.
(Source: R.C. § 718.052)
(Ord. 21-2015, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 880.25 ANNUAL RETURN; USE OF OHIO BUSINESS GATEWAY; TYPES OF FILINGS
AUTHORIZED.
   (a)   Any taxpayer subject to municipal income taxation with respect to the
taxpayer’s net profit from a business or profession may file any municipal
income tax return or, estimated municipal income tax return, or extension for
filing a municipal income tax return, and may make payment of amounts shown to
be due on such returns, by using the Ohio Business Gateway.
   (b)   Any employer, agent of an employer or other payer may report the
amount of municipal income tax withheld from qualifying wages, and may make
remittance of such amounts, by using the Ohio Business Gateway.
   (c)   Nothing in this section affects the due dates for filing employer
withholding tax returns or deposit of any required tax.
   (d)   The use of the Ohio Business Gateway by municipal corporations,
taxpayers or other persons does not affect the legal rights of municipalities
or taxpayers as otherwise permitted by law. The State of Ohio shall not be a
party to the administration of municipal income taxes or to an appeal of a
municipal income tax matter, except as otherwise specifically provided by law.
   (e)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as limiting or removing the
authority of any municipal corporation to administer, audit and enforce the
provisions of its municipal income tax.
(Source: R.C. § 718.051)
(Ord. 21-2015, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 880.26 ANNUAL RETURN; EXTENSION OF TIME TO FILE.
   (a)   Any taxpayer that has duly requested an automatic six-month extension
for filing the taxpayer’s federal income tax return shall automatically receive
an extension for the filing of a municipal income tax return. The extended due
date of the municipal income tax return shall be the fifteenth day of the tenth
month after the last day of the taxable year to which the return relates.
   (b)   Any taxpayer that qualifies for an automatic federal extension for a
period other than six months for filing the taxpayer’s federal income tax
return shall automatically receive an extension for the filing of a municipal
income tax return. The extended due date of the municipal income tax return
shall be the same as that of the extended federal income tax return.
   (c)   A taxpayer that has not requested or received a six-month extension
for filing the taxpayer’s federal income tax return may request that the Tax
Administrator grant the taxpayer a six-month extension of the date for filing
the taxpayer’s municipal income tax return. If the request is received by the
Tax Administrator on or before the date the municipal income tax return is due,
the Tax Administrator shall grant the taxpayer’s requested extension.
   (d)   An extension of time to file under this chapter is not an extension of
the time to pay any tax due unless the Tax Administrator grants an extension of
that date.
   (e)   If the State Tax Commissioner extends for all taxpayers the date for
filing state income tax returns under R.C. § 5747.08(G), a taxpayer shall
automatically receive an extension for the filing of a municipal income tax
return. The extended due date of the municipal income tax return shall be the
same as the extended due date of the state income tax return.
(Source: R.C. § 718.05)
(Ord. 21-2015, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 880.27 ANNUAL RETURN; AMENDED RETURNS.
   (a)   (1)   A taxpayer shall file an amended return with the Tax
Administrator in such form as the Tax Administrator requires if any of the
facts, figures, computations or attachments required in the taxpayer’s annual
return to determine the tax due levied by the municipality in accordance with
this chapter must be altered.
      (2)   Within 60 days after the final determination of any federal or
state tax liability affecting the taxpayer’s municipal tax liability, that
taxpayer shall make and file an amended municipal return showing income subject
to the municipal income tax based upon such final determination of federal or
state tax liability, and pay any additional municipal income tax shown due
thereon or make a claim for refund of any overpayment unless the tax or
overpayment is $10 or less.
      (3)   If a taxpayer intends to file an amended consolidated municipal
income tax return, or to amend its type of return from a separate return to a
consolidated return, based on the taxpayer’s consolidated federal income tax
return, the taxpayer shall notify the Tax Administrator before filing the
amended return.
   (b)   (1)   In the case of an underpayment, the amended return shall be
accompanied by payment of any combined additional tax due together with any
penalty and interest thereon. If the combined tax shown to be due is $10 or
less, such amount need not accompany the amended return. Except as provided
under division (b)(2) of this section, the amended return shall not reopen
those facts, figures, computations, or attachments from a previously filed
return that are not affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment
to the taxpayer’s federal or state income tax return unless the applicable
statute of limitations for civil actions or prosecutions under §
880.42 has not expired for a previously filed return.
      (2)   The additional tax to be paid shall not exceed the amount of tax
that would be due if all facts, figures, computations and attachments were
reopened.
   (c)   (1)   In the case of an overpayment, a request for refund may be filed
under this division (c)(1) within the period prescribed by §
880.41(e) for filing the amended return even if it is filed beyond the period
prescribed in that division if it otherwise conforms to the requirements of
that division. If the amount of the refund is $10 or less, no refund need be
paid by the municipality to the taxpayer. Except as set forth in division (c)
(2) below, a request filed under this division shall claim refund of
overpayments resulting from alterations to only those facts, figures,
computations or attachments required in the taxpayer’s annual return that are
affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to the taxpayer’s
federal or state income tax return unless it is also filed within the time
prescribed in §
880.29. Except as set forth in division (c)(2) of this section, the request
shall not reopen those facts, figures, computations or attachments that are not
affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to the taxpayer’s
federal or state income tax return.
      (2)   The amount to be refunded shall not exceed the amount of refund
that would be due if all facts, figures, computations and attachments were
reopened.
(Source: R.C. § 718.12, 718.41)
(Ord. 21-2015, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 880.28 ANNUAL RETURN; REFUNDS.
   (a)   Upon receipt of a request for a refund, the Tax Administrator of the
municipality, in accordance with this section, shall refund to employers,
agents of employers, other payers or taxpayers, with respect to any income or
withholding tax levied by the municipality:
      (1)   Overpayments of more than $10; and
      (2)   Amounts paid erroneously if the refund requested exceeds $10.
   (b)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, returns setting
forth a request for refund shall be filed with the Tax Administrator within
three years after the tax was due or paid, whichever is later. Any
documentation that substantiates the taxpayers claim for a refund must be
included with the return filing. Failure to remit all documentation, including
schedules, other municipal income tax returns or other supporting documentation
necessary to verify credits, income, losses or other pertinent factors on the
return will cause delay in processing, and/or disallowance of undocumented
credits or losses.
      (2)   On filing of the refund request, the Tax Administrator shall
determine the amount of refund due and certify such amount to the appropriate
municipal corporation official for payment. Except as provided in division (b)
(3) below, the Administrator shall issue an assessment to any taxpayer whose
request for refund is fully or partially denied. The assessment shall state the
amount of the refund that was denied, the reasons for the denial and
instructions for appealing the assessment.
      (3)   If a Tax Administrator denies in whole or in part a refund request
included within the taxpayer’s originally filed annual income tax return, the
Tax Administrator shall notify the taxpayer, in writing, of the amount of the
refund that was denied, the reasons for the denial and instructions for
requesting an assessment that may be appealed under §
880.40.
   (c)   A request for a refund that is received after the last day for filing
specified in division (b) above shall be considered to have been filed in a
timely manner if any of the following situations exist:
      (1)   The request is delivered by the postal service, and the earliest
postal service postmark on the cover in which the request is enclosed is not
later than the last day for filing the request;
      (2)   The request is delivered by the postal service, the only postmark
on the cover in which the request is enclosed was affixed by a private postal
meter, the date of that postmark is not later than the last day for filing the
request and the request is received within seven days of such last day; and
      (3)   The request is delivered by the postal service, no postmark date
was affixed to the cover in which the request is enclosed or the date of the
postmark so affixed is not legible, and the request is received within seven
days of the last day for making the request.
   (d)   Interest shall be allowed and paid on any overpayment by a taxpayer of
any municipal income tax obligation from the date of the overpayment until the
date of the refund of the overpayment, except that if any overpayment is
refunded within 90 days after the final filing date of the annual return or 90
days after the completed return is filed, whichever is later, no interest shall
be allowed on the refund. For the purpose of computing the payment of interest
on amounts overpaid, no amount of tax for any taxable year shall be considered
to have been paid before the date on which the return on which the tax is
reported is due, without regard to any extension of time for filing that
return. Interest shall be paid at the interest rate described in §
880.29(a)(4).
   (e)   As used in this section, withholding tax has the same meaning as in §
880.30.
(Source: R.C. § 718.19. Also see §
880.27, Amended Returns.)
(Ord. 21-2015, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 880.29 PENALTY, INTEREST, FEES AND CHARGES.
   (a)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Applicable law.” This chapter, the resolutions, ordinances, codes,
directives, instructions and rules adopted by the municipality provided such
resolutions, ordinances, codes, directives, instructions and rules impose or
directly or indirectly address the levy, payment, remittance or filing
requirements of a municipal income tax.
      (2)   “Federal short-term rate.” The rate of the average market yield on
outstanding marketable obligations of the United States with remaining periods
to maturity of three years or less, as determined under § 1274 of the Internal
Revenue Code, for July of the current year.
      (3)   “Income tax,” “estimated income tax” and “withholding tax.” Any
income tax, estimated income tax and withholding tax imposed by a municipal
corporation pursuant to applicable law, including at any time before January 1,
2016.
      (4)   “Interest rate as described in division (a) of this section.” The
federal short-term rate, rounded to the nearest whole number per cent, plus 5%.
The rate shall apply for the calendar year next following the July of the year
in which the federal short-term rate is determined in accordance with division
(a)(2) above.
      (5)   “Return.” Includes any tax return, report, reconciliation, schedule
and other document required to be filed with a Tax Administrator or municipal
corporation by a taxpayer, employer, any agent of the employer or any other
payer pursuant to applicable law, including at any time before January 1, 2016.
      (6)   “Unpaid estimated income tax.” Estimated income tax due but not
paid by the date the tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      (7)   “Unpaid income tax.” Income tax due but not paid by the date the
income tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      (8)   “Unpaid withholding tax.” Withholding tax due but not paid by the
date the withholding tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      (9)   “Withholding tax.” Includes amounts an employer, any agent of an
employer or any other payer did not withhold in whole or in part from an
employee’s qualifying wages, but that, under applicable law, the employer,
agent or other payer is required to withhold from an employee’s qualifying
wages.
   (b)   (1)   This section shall apply to the following:
         A.   Any return required to be filed under applicable law for taxable
years beginning on or after January 1, 2016; and
         B.   Income tax, estimated income tax and withholding tax required to
be paid or remitted to the municipality on or after January 1, 2016 for taxable
years beginning on or after January 1, 2016
      (2)   This section does not apply to returns required to be filed or
payments required to be made before January 1, 2016, regardless of the filing
or payment date. Returns required to be filed or payments required to be made
before January 1, 2016, but filed or paid after that date shall be subject to
the ordinances or rules, as adopted from time to time before January 1, 2016 of
this municipality.
   (c)   The municipality shall impose on a taxpayer, employer, any agent of
the employer and any other payer, and will attempt to collect the interest
amounts and penalties prescribed in this section when the taxpayer, employer,
any agent of the employer or any other payer for any reason fails, in whole or
in part, to make to the municipality timely and full payment or remittance of
income tax, estimated income tax or withholding tax or to file timely with the
municipality any return required to be filed.
      (1)   Interest shall be imposed at the rate defined as “interest rate as
described in division (a) of this section”, per annum, on all unpaid income
tax, unpaid estimated income tax and unpaid withholding tax. This imposition of
interest shall be assessed per month, or fraction of a month.
      (2)   With respect to unpaid income tax and unpaid estimated income tax,
a penalty equal to 15% of the amount not timely paid shall be imposed.
      (3)   With respect to any unpaid withholding tax, a penalty equal to 50%
of the amount not timely paid shall be imposed.
      (4)   With respect to returns other than estimated income tax returns,
the municipality shall impose a monthly penalty of $25 for each failure to
timely file each return, regardless of the liability shown thereon for each
month, or any fraction thereof, during which the return remains unfiled
regardless of the liability shown thereon. The penalty shall not exceed a total
of $150 in assessed penalty for each failure to timely file a return.
   (d)   With respect to income taxes, estimated income taxes, withholding
taxes and returns, the municipality shall not impose, seek to collect or
collect any penalty, amount of interest, charges or additional fees not
described in this section.
   (e)   With respect to income taxes, estimated income taxes, withholding
taxes and returns, the municipality shall not refund or credit any penalty,
amount of interest, charges or additional fees that were properly imposed or
collected before January 1, 2016.
   (f)   The Tax Administrator may, in the Tax Administrator’s sole discretion,
abate or partially abate penalties or interest imposed under this section when
the Tax Administrator deems such abatement or partial abatement to be
appropriate. Such abatement or partial abatement shall be properly documented
and maintained on the record of the taxpayer who received benefit of such
abatement or partial abatement.
   (g)   The municipality may impose on the taxpayer, employer, any agent of
the employer or any other payer the municipality’s post-judgment collection
costs and fees, including attorney’s fees. (Source: R.C. § 718.27)
(Ord. 21-2015, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 880.30 AUDIT.
   (a)   At or before the commencement of an audit, as defined in §
880.06(c)(3) of this chapter, the Tax Administrator shall provide to the
taxpayer a written description of the roles of the Tax Administrator and of the
taxpayer during an audit and a statement of the taxpayer’s rights, including
any right to obtain a refund of an overpayment of tax. At or before the
commencement of an audit, the Tax Administrator shall inform the taxpayer when
the audit is considered to have commenced.
   (b)   Except in cases involving suspected criminal activity, the Tax
Administrator shall conduct an audit of a taxpayer during regular business
hours and after providing reasonable notice to the taxpayer. A taxpayer who is
unable to comply with a proposed time for an audit on the grounds that the
proposed time would cause inconvenience or hardship must offer reasonable
alternative dates for the audit.
   (c)   (1)   At all stages of an audit by the Tax Administrator, a taxpayer
is entitled to be assisted or represented by an attorney, accountant,
bookkeeper, or other tax practitioner. The Tax Administrator shall prescribe a
form by which a taxpayer may designate such a person to assist or represent the
taxpayer in the conduct of any proceedings resulting from actions by the Tax
Administrator. If a taxpayer has not submitted such a form, the Tax
Administrator may accept other evidence, as the Tax Administrator considers
appropriate, that a person is the authorized representative of a taxpayer.
      (2)   A taxpayer may refuse to answer any questions asked by the person
conducting an audit until the taxpayer has an opportunity to consult with the
taxpayer’s attorney, accountant, bookkeeper or other tax practitioner. This
division (c)(2) does not authorize the practice of law by a person who is not
an attorney.
   (d)   A taxpayer may record, electronically or otherwise, the audit
examination.
   (e)   The failure of the Tax Administrator to comply with a provision of
this section shall neither excuse a taxpayer from payment of any taxes owed by
the taxpayer nor cure any procedural defect in a taxpayer’s case.
   (f)   If the Tax Administrator fails to substantially comply with the
provisions of this section, the Tax Administrator, upon application by the
taxpayer, shall excuse the taxpayer from penalties and interest arising from
the audit.
(Source: R.C. § 718.36)
(Ord. 21-2015, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 880.31 ROUNDING.
   A person may round to the nearest whole dollar all amounts the person is
required to enter on any return, report, voucher or other document required
under this chapter. Any fractional part of a dollar that equals or exceeds
$0.50 shall be rounded to the next whole dollar, and any fractional part of a
dollar that is less than $0.50 shall be dropped, rounding down to the nearest
whole dollar. If a person chooses to round amounts entered on a document, the
person shall round all amounts entered on the document. (Source: R.C. § 718.25)
(Ord. 21-2015, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 880.32 AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; ADMINISTRATIVE POWERS OF THE TAX
ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Tax Administrator has the authority to perform all duties and functions
necessary and appropriate to implement the provisions of this chapter,
including without limitation:
   (a)   Exercise all powers whatsoever of an inquisitorial nature as provided
by law, including, the right to inspect books, accounts, records, memorandums,
and federal and state income tax returns, to examine persons under oath, to
issue orders or subpoenas for the production of books, accounts, papers,
records, documents and testimony, to take depositions, to apply to a court for
attachment proceedings as for contempt, to approve vouchers for the fees of
officers and witnesses, and to administer oaths; provided that the powers
referred to in this division of this section shall be exercised by the Tax
Administrator only in connection with the performance of the duties
respectively assigned to the Tax Administrator under a municipal corporation
income tax ordinance or resolution adopted in accordance with this chapter;
   (b)   Appoint agents and prescribe their powers and duties;
   (c)   Confer and meet with officers of other municipal corporations and
states and officers of the United States on any matters pertaining to their
respective official duties as provided by law;
   (d)   Exercise the authority provided by law, including orders from
bankruptcy courts, relative to remitting or refunding taxes, including
penalties and interest thereon, illegally or erroneously imposed or collected,
or for any other reason overpaid, and, in addition, the Tax Administrator may
investigate any claim of overpayment and make a written statement of the Tax
Administrator’s findings, and, if the Tax Administrator finds that there has
been an overpayment, approve and issue a refund payable to the taxpayer, the
taxpayer’s assigns, or legal representative as provided in this chapter;
   (e)   Exercise the authority provided by law relative to consenting to the
compromise and settlement of tax claims;
   (f)   Exercise the authority provided by law relative to the use of
alternative apportionment methods by taxpayers in accordance with §
880.14;
   (g)   Make all tax findings, determinations, computations, assessments and
orders the Tax Administrator is by law authorized and required to make and,
pursuant to time limitations provided by law, on the Tax Administrator’s own
motion, review, re-determine, or correct any tax findings, determinations,
computations, assessments or orders the Tax Administrator has made, but the Tax
Administrator shall not review, re-determine or correct any tax finding,
determination, computation, assessment or order which the Tax Administrator has
made for which an appeal has been filed with the Local Board of Tax Review or
other appropriate tribunal, unless such appeal or application is withdrawn by
the appellant or applicant, is dismissed or is otherwise final;
   (h)   Destroy any or all returns or other tax documents in the manner
authorized by law; and
   (i)   Enter into an agreement with a taxpayer to simplify the withholding
obligations described in §
880.10.
(Source: R.C. § 718.24)
(Ord. 21-2015, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 880.33 AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; COMPROMISE OF CLAIM AND PAYMENT OVER
TIME.
   (a)   As used in this section, “claim” means a claim for an amount payable
to the municipality that arises pursuant to the municipal income tax imposed in
accordance with this chapter.
   (b)   The Tax Administrator may do either of the following if such action is
in the best interests of the municipality:
      (1)   Compromise a claim; and
      (2)   Extend for a reasonable period the time for payment of a claim by
agreeing to accept monthly or other periodic payments, upon such terms and
conditions as the Tax Administrator may require.
   (c)   The Tax Administrator’s rejection of a compromise or payment-over-time
agreement proposed by a person with respect to a claim shall not be appealable.
   (d)   A compromise or payment-over-time agreement with respect to a claim
shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of only the parties to the
compromise or agreement, and shall not extinguish or otherwise affect the
liability of any other person.
   (e)   (1)   A compromise or payment-over-time agreement with respect to a
claim shall be void if the taxpayer defaults under the compromise or agreement
or if the compromise or agreement was obtained by fraud or by misrepresentation
of a material fact. Any amount that was due before the compromise or agreement
and that is unpaid shall remain due, and any penalties or interest that would
have accrued in the absence of the compromise or agreement shall continue to
accrue and be due.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator shall have sole discretion to determine
whether or not penalty, interest, charges or applicable fees will be assessed
through the duration of any compromise or payment-over-time agreement.
   (f)   The Tax Administrator may require that the taxpayer provide detailed
financial documentation and information, in order to determine whether or not a
payment-over-time agreement will be authorized. The taxpayer’s failure to
provide the necessary and required information by the Tax Administrator shall
preclude consideration of a payment-over-time agreement.
(Source: R.C. § 718.28)
(Ord. 21-2015, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 880.34 AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; RIGHT TO EXAMINE.
   (a)   The Tax Administrator, or any authorized agent or employee thereof may
examine the books, papers, records and federal and state income tax returns of
any employer, taxpayer or other person that is subject to, or that the Tax
Administrator believes is subject to, the provisions of this chapter for the
purpose of verifying the accuracy of any return made or, if no return was
filed, to ascertain the tax due under this chapter. Upon written request by the
Tax Administrator or a duly authorized agent or employee thereof, every
employer, taxpayer or other person subject to this section is required to
furnish the opportunity for the Tax Administrator, authorized agent or employee
to investigate and examine such books, papers, records and federal and state
income tax returns at a reasonable time and place designated in the request.
   (b)   The records and other documents of any taxpayer, employer or other
person that is subject to, or that a Tax Administrator believes is subject to,
the provisions of this chapter shall be open to the Tax Administrator’s
inspection during business hours and shall be preserved for a period of six
years following the end of the taxable year to which the records or documents
relate, unless the Tax Administrator, in writing, consents to their destruction
within that period, or by order requires that they be kept longer. The Tax
Administrator of a municipal corporation may require any person, by notice
served on that person, to keep such records as the Tax Administrator determines
necessary to show whether or not that person is liable, and the extent of such
liability, for the income tax levied by the municipality or for the withholding
of such tax.
   (c)   The Tax Administrator may examine under oath any person that the Tax
Administrator reasonably believes has knowledge concerning any income that was
or would have been returned for taxation or any transaction tending to affect
such income. The Tax Administrator may, for this purpose, compel any such
person to attend a hearing or examination and to produce any books, papers,
records and federal and state income tax returns in such person’s possession or
control. The person may be assisted or represented by an attorney, accountant,
bookkeeper or other tax practitioner at any such hearing or examination. This
division (c) does not authorize the practice of law by a person who is not an
attorney.
   (d)   No person issued written notice by the Tax Administrator compelling
attendance at a hearing or examination or the production of books, papers,
records or federal and state income tax returns under this section shall fail
to comply.
(Source: R.C. § 718.23)
(Ord. 21-2015, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 880.35 AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; REQUIRING IDENTIFYING INFORMATION.
   (a)   The Tax Administrator may require any person filing a tax document
with the Tax Administrator to provide identifying information, which may
include the person’s Social Security number, federal employer identification
number or other identification number requested by the Tax Administrator. A
person required by the Tax Administrator to provide identifying information
that has experienced any change with respect to that information shall notify
the Tax Administrator of the change before, or upon, filing the next tax
document requiring the identifying information.
   (b)   (1)   If the Tax Administrator makes a request for identifying
information and the Tax Administrator does not receive valid identifying
information within 30 days of making the request, nothing in this chapter
prohibits the Tax Administrator from imposing a penalty upon the person to whom
the request was directed pursuant to §
880.29, in addition to any applicable penalty described in §
880.99.
      (2)   If a person required by the Tax Administrator to provide
identifying information does not notify the Tax Administrator of a change with
respect to that information as required under division (a) above within 30 days
after filing the next tax document requiring such identifying information,
nothing in this chapter prohibits the Tax Administrator from imposing a penalty
pursuant to §
880.29.
      (3)   The penalties provided for under divisions (b)(1) and (b)(2) above
may be billed and imposed in the same manner as the tax or fee with respect to
which the identifying information is sought and are in addition to any
applicable criminal penalties described in §
880.99 for a violation of §
880.38, and any other penalties that may be imposed by the Tax Administrator by
law.
(Source: R.C. § 718.26)
(Ord. 21-2015, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 880.36 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   (a)   Any information gained as a result of returns, investigations,
hearings or verifications required or authorized by R.C. § 718 or by the
charter or ordinance of the municipality is confidential, and no person shall
access or disclose such information except in accordance with a proper judicial
order or in connection with the performance of that person’s official duties or
the official business of the municipality as authorized by R.C. § 718 or the
charter or ordinance authorizing the levy. The Tax Administrator of the
municipality or a designee thereof may furnish copies of returns filed or
otherwise received under this chapter and other related tax information to the
Internal Revenue Service, the State Tax Commissioner and Tax Administrators of
other municipal corporations.
   (b)   This section does not prohibit the municipality from publishing or
disclosing statistics in a form that does not disclose information with respect
to particular taxpayers.
(Source: R.C. § 718.13)
(Ord. 21-2015, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 880.37 FRAUD.
   No person shall knowingly make, present, aid or assist in the preparation or
presentation of a false or fraudulent report, return, schedule, statement,
claim or document authorized or required by municipal corporation ordinance or
state law to be filed with the Tax Administrator, or knowingly procure, counsel
or advise the preparation or presentation of such report, return, schedule,
statement, claim or document, or knowingly change, alter or amend, or knowingly
procure, counsel or advise such change, alteration or amendment of the records
upon which such report, return, schedule, statement, claim or document is based
with intent to defraud the municipality or the Tax Administrator.
(Source: R.C. § 718.35)
(Ord. 21-2015, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 880.38 OPINION OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR.
   (a)   An “opinion of the Tax Administrator” means an opinion issued under
this section with respect to prospective municipal income tax liability. It
does not include ordinary correspondence of the Tax Administrator.
   (b)   A taxpayer may submit a written request for an opinion of the Tax
Administrator as to whether or how certain income, source of income or a
certain activity or transaction will be taxed. The written response of the Tax
Administrator shall be an “opinion of the Tax Administrator” and shall bind the
Tax Administrator, in accordance with divisions (c), (g), and (h) below,
provided all of the following conditions are satisfied:
      (1)   The taxpayer’s request fully and accurately describes the specific
facts or circumstances relevant to a determination of the taxability of the
income, source of income, activity or transaction, and, if an activity or
transaction, all parties involved in the activity or transaction are clearly
identified by name, location or other pertinent facts;
      (2)   The request relates to a tax imposed by the municipality in
accordance with this chapter; and
      (3)   The Tax Administrator’s response is signed by the Tax Administrator
and designated as an “opinion of the Tax Administrator.”
   (c)   An opinion of the Tax Administrator shall remain in effect and shall
protect the taxpayer for whom the opinion was prepared and who reasonably
relies on it from liability for any taxes, penalty or interest otherwise
chargeable on the activity or transaction specifically held by the Tax
Administrator’s opinion to be taxable in a particular manner or not to be
subject to taxation for any taxable years that may be specified in the opinion,
or until the earliest of the following dates:
      (1)   The effective date of a written revocation by the Tax Administrator
sent to the taxpayer by certified mail, return receipt requested. The effective
date of the revocation shall be the taxpayer’s date of receipt or one year
after the issuance of the opinion, whichever is later;
      (2)   The effective date of any amendment or enactment of a relevant
section of the Ohio Revised Code, uncodified state law, or the municipality’s
income tax ordinance that would substantially change the analysis and
conclusion of the opinion of the Tax Administrator;
      (3)   The date on which a court issues an opinion establishing or
changing relevant case law with respect to the Ohio Revised Code, uncodified
state law, or the municipality’s income tax ordinance;
      (4)   If the opinion of the Tax Administrator was based on the
interpretation of federal law, the effective date of any change in the relevant
federal statutes or regulations, or the date on which a court issues an opinion
establishing or changing relevant case law with respect to federal statutes or
regulations;
      (5)   The effective date of any change in the taxpayer’s material facts
or circumstances; or
      (6)   The effective date of the expiration of the opinion, if specified
in the opinion.
   (d)   (1)   A taxpayer is not relieved of tax liability for any activity or
transaction related to a quest for an opinion that contained any
misrepresentation or omission of one or more material facts.
      (2)   If the taxpayer knowingly has misrepresented the pertinent facts or
omitted material facts with intent to defraud the municipality in order to
obtain a more favorable opinion, the taxpayer may be in violation of §
880.37.
   (e)   If a Tax Administrator provides written advice under this section, the
opinion shall include a statement that:
      (1)   The tax consequences stated in the opinion may be subject to change
for any of the reasons stated in division (c) above; and
      (2)   It is the duty of the taxpayer to be aware of such changes.
   (f)   A Tax Administrator may refuse to offer an opinion on any request
received under this section.
   (g)   This section binds a Tax Administrator only with respect to opinions
of the Tax Administrator issued on or after January 1, 2016.
   (h)   An opinion of a Tax Administrator binds that Tax Administrator only
with respect to the taxpayer for whom the opinion was prepared and does not
bind the Tax Administrator of any other municipal corporation.
   (i)   A Tax Administrator shall make available the text of all opinions
issued under this section, except those opinions prepared for a taxpayer who
has requested that the text of the opinion remain confidential. In no event
shall the text of an opinion be made available until the Tax Administrator has
removed all information that identifies the taxpayer and any other parties
involved in the activity or transaction.
   (j)   An opinion of the Tax Administrator issued under this section or a
refusal to offer an opinion under division (f) above may not be appealed.
(Source: R.C. § 718.38)
(Ord. 21-2015, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 880.39 ASSESSMENT; APPEAL BASED ON PRESUMPTION OF DELIVERY.
   (a)   (1)   The Tax Administrator shall serve an assessment either by
personal service, by certified mail or by a delivery service authorized under
R.C. § 5703.056.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator may deliver the assessment through
alternative means as provided in this section, including, but not limited to,
delivery by secure electronic mail. Such alternative delivery method must be
authorized by the person subject to the assessment.
      (3)   Once service of the assessment has been made by the Tax
Administrator or other municipal official, or the designee of either, the
person to whom the assessment is directed may protest the ruling of that
assessment by filing an appeal with the Local Board of Tax Review within 60
days after the receipt of service. The delivery of an assessment of the Tax
Administrator as prescribed in R.C. § 718.18 is prima facie evidence that
delivery is complete and that the assessment is served.
   (b)   (1)   A person may challenge the presumption of delivery and service
as set forth in this division (b)(1). A person disputing the presumption of
delivery and service under this section bears the burden of proving by a
preponderance of the evidence that the address to which the assessment was sent
was not an address with which the person was associated at the time the Tax
Administrator originally mailed the assessment by certified mail. For the
purposes of this section, a person is associated with an address at the time
the Tax Administrator originally mailed the assessment if, at that time, the
person was residing, receiving legal documents, or conducting business at the
address; or if, before that time, the person had conducted business at the
address and, when the assessment was mailed, the person’s agent or the person’s
affiliate was conducting business at the address. For the purposes of this
section, a person’s affiliate is any other person that, at the time the
assessment was mailed, owned or controlled at least 20%, as determined by
voting rights, of the addressee’s business.
      (2)   If a person elects to appeal an assessment on the basis described
in division (b)(1) above, and if that assessment is subject to collection and
is not otherwise appealable, the person must do so within 60 days after the
initial contact by the Tax Administrator or other municipal official, or the
designee of either, with the person. Nothing in this division prevents the Tax
Administrator or other official from entering into a compromise with the person
if the person does not actually file such an appeal with the Local Board of Tax
Review.
(Source: R.C. § 718.18)
(Ord. 21-2015, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 880.40 LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW; APPEAL TO LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW.
   (a)   (1)   The legislative authority of the municipality shall maintain a
Local Board of Tax Review to hear appeals as provided in R.C. Ch. 718.
      (2)   The Local Board of Tax Review shall consist of three members. Two
members shall be appointed by the legislative authority of the municipality,
and may not be employees, elected officials or contractors with the
municipality at any time during their term or in the five years immediately
preceding the date of appointment. One member shall be appointed by the top
administrative official of the municipality. This member may be an employee of
the municipality, but may not be the Director of Finance or equivalent officer,
or the Tax Administrator or other similar official or an employee directly
involved in municipal tax matters, or any direct subordinate thereof.
      (3)   The term for members of the Local Board of Tax Review appointed by
the legislative authority of the municipality shall be two years. There is no
limit on the number of terms that a member may serve should the member be
reappointed by the legislative authority. The Board member appointed by the top
administrative official of the municipality shall serve at the discretion of
the administrative official.
      (4)   Members of the Board of Tax Review appointed by the legislative
authority may be removed by the legislative authority as set forth in R.C. §
718.11(A)(4).
      (5)   A member of the Board who, for any reason, ceases to meet the
qualifications for the position prescribed by this section shall resign
immediately by operation of law.
      (6)   A vacancy in an unexpired term shall be filled in the same manner
as the original appointment within 60 days of when the vacancy was created. Any
member appointed to fill a vacancy occurring prior to the expiration of the
term for which the member’s predecessor was appointed shall hold office for the
remainder of such term. No vacancy on the board shall impair the power and
authority of the remaining members to exercise all the powers of the board.
      (7)   If a member is temporarily unable to serve on the Board due to a
conflict of interest, illness, absence or similar reason, the legislative
authority or top administrative official that appointed the member shall
appoint another individual to temporarily serve on the Board in the member’s
place. This appointment shall be subject to the same requirements and
limitations as are applicable to the appointment of the member temporarily
unable to serve.
      (8)   No member of the Local Board of Tax Review shall receive
compensation, fee or reimbursement of expenses for service on the board.
   (b)   Whenever a Tax Administrator issues an assessment, the Tax
Administrator shall notify the taxpayer in writing at the same time of the
taxpayer’s right to appeal the assessment, the manner in which the taxpayer may
appeal the assessment and the address to which the appeal should be directed,
and to whom the appeal should be directed.
   (c)   Any person who has been issued an assessment may appeal the assessment
to the Board by filing a request with the Board. The request shall be in
writing, shall specify the reason or reasons why the assessment should be
deemed incorrect or unlawful, and shall be filed within 60 days after the
taxpayer receives the assessment.
   (d)   The Local Board of Tax Review shall schedule a hearing to be held
within 60 days after receiving an appeal of an assessment under division (c)
above, unless the taxpayer requests additional time to prepare or waives a
hearing. If the taxpayer does not waive the hearing, the taxpayer may appear
before the Board and/or may be represented by an attorney at law, certified
public accountant or other representative. The Board may allow a hearing to be
continued as jointly agreed to by the parties. In such a case, the hearing must
be completed within 120 days after the first day of the hearing unless the
parties agree otherwise.
   (e)   The Board may affirm, reverse or modify the Tax Administrator’s
assessment or any part of that assessment. The Board shall issue a final
determination on the appeal within 90 days after the board’s final hearing on
the appeal, and send a copy of its final determination by ordinary mail to all
of the parties to the appeal within 15 days after issuing the final
determination. The taxpayer or the Tax Administrator may appeal the Board’s
final determination as provided in R.C. § 5717.011.
   (f)   The Local Board of Tax Review created pursuant to this section shall
adopt rules governing its procedures, including a schedule of related costs,
and shall keep a record of its transactions. The rules governing the Local
Board of Tax Review procedures shall be in writing, and may be amended as
needed by the Local Board of Tax Review. Such records are not public records
available for inspection under R.C. § 149.43. For this reason, any
documentation, copies of returns or reports, final determinations or working
papers for each case must be maintained in a secure location under the control
of the Tax Administrator. No member of the Local Board of Tax Review may remove
such documentation, copies of returns or reports, final determinations or
working papers from the hearing. Hearings requested by a taxpayer before a
Local Board of Tax Review created pursuant to this section are not meetings of
a public body subject to R.C. § 121.22. For this reason, such hearings shall
not be open to the public, and only those parties to the case may be present
during the hearing.
(Source: R.C. § 718.11)
(Ord. 21-2015, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 880.41 ACTIONS TO RECOVER; STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   (a)   (1)   A.   Civil actions to recover municipal income taxes and
penalties and interest on municipal income taxes shall be brought within the
latter of:
            1.   Three years after the tax was due or the return was filed,
whichever is later; or
            2.   One year after the conclusion of the qualifying deferral
period, if any.
         B.   The time limit described in division (a)(1)A. of this section may
be extended at any time if both the Tax Administrator and the employer, agent
of the employer, other payer or taxpayer consent in writing to the extension.
Any extension shall also extend for the same period of time the time limit
described in division (c) below.
      (2)   As used in this section, “qualifying deferral period” means a
period of time beginning and ending as follows:
         A.   Beginning on the date a person who is aggrieved by an assessment
files with a Local Board of Tax Review the request described in §
880.40. That date shall not be affected by any subsequent decision, finding or
holding by any administrative body or court that the Local Board of Tax Review
with which the aggrieved person filed the request did not have jurisdiction to
affirm, reverse or modify the assessment or any part of that assessment; and
         B.   Ending the later of the sixtieth day after the date on which the
final determination of the Local Board of Tax Review becomes final or, if any
party appeals from the determination of the Local Board of Tax Review, the
sixtieth day after the date on which the final determination of the Local Board
of Tax Review is either ultimately affirmed in whole or in part or ultimately
reversed and no further appeal of either that affirmation, in whole or in part,
or that reversal is available or taken.
   (b)   Prosecutions for an offense made punishable under a resolution or
ordinance imposing an income tax shall be commenced within three years after
the commission of the offense, provided that in the case of fraud, failure to
file a return, or the omission of 25% or more of income required to be
reported, prosecutions may be commenced within six years after the commission
of the offense.
   (c)   A claim for a refund of municipal income taxes shall be brought within
the time limitation provided in §
880.28.
   (d)   (1)   Notwithstanding the fact that an appeal is pending, the
petitioner may pay all or a portion of the assessment that is the subject of
the appeal. The acceptance of a payment by the municipality does not prejudice
any claim for refund upon final determination of the appeal.
      (2)   If upon final determination of the appeal an error in the
assessment is corrected by the Tax Administrator, upon an appeal so filed or
pursuant to a final determination of the Local Board of Tax Review created
under §
880.40, of the Ohio Board of Tax Appeals, or any court to which the decision of
the Ohio Board of Tax Appeals has been appealed, so that the amount due from
the party assessed under the corrected assessment is less than the amount paid,
there shall be issued to the appellant or to the appellant’s assigns or legal
representative a refund in the amount of the overpayment as provided by §
880.28, with interest on that amount as provided by this division (d).
   (e)   No civil action to recover municipal income tax or related penalties
or interest shall be brought during either of the following time periods:
      (1)   The period during which a taxpayer has a right to appeal the
imposition of that tax or interest or those penalties; or
      (2)   The period during which an appeal related to the imposition of that
tax or interest or those penalties is pending.
(Source: R.C. § 718.12)
(Ord. 21-2015, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 880.42 ADOPTION OF RULES.
   (a)   Pursuant to R.C. § 718.30, the municipality, pursuant to this chapter,
grants authority to the Tax Administrator to adopt rules to administer the
income tax imposed by the municipality.
   (b)   All rules adopted under this section shall be published and posted on
the internet.
(Source: R.C. § 718.30)
   (c)   RITA Rules and Regulations - The Council of the village adopts the
Regional Income Tax Agency (RITA) Rules and Regulations for use as the
village’s Income Tax Rules and Regulations, and they are hereby incorporated by
reference as part of this chapter. In the event of a conflict with any
provision(s) of the village’s Income Tax Chapter and the RITA Rules and
Regulations, this chapter will supersede. Until and if the contractual
relationship between the village and RITA ceases, § 182.20(B)(1) will supersede
all other provisions within Chapter 182 regarding promulgation of Rules and
Regulations by the Finance Director and approval of same by the Board of Tax
Appeals.
(Ord. 21-2015, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 880.43 LANDLORD REPORTING.
   (a)   All property owners of real property of any kind located within the
village who rent to tenants of houses, apartments, rooms, trailer parks or
other residential or commercial rental accommodations, shall file with the Tax
Administrator a report showing the name, address, telephone number and place of
employment of each such tenant within 30 days after a new tenant occupies said
rental property.
   (b)   Within 30 days after a tenant vacates such house, apartment, room,
trailer park or other residential or commercial rental property located within
the village, the owner of such vacated rental property shall file with the Tax
Administrator a report showing the date of vacation of said rental property by
said tenant and identifying each such vacating tenant.
   (c)   Late filing or refusal by any property owner of rental property of any
kind located within the village to submit such information as set forth in the
paragraphs above will be punished by fines, as prescribed by §
880.99(d) of this chapter.
(Ord. 21-2015, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 880.44 COLLECTION OF TAX AFTER TERMINATION OF CHAPTER.
   (a)   This chapter shall continue in full force and effect insofar as the
levy of taxes is concerned until repealed, and insofar as the collection of
taxes levied hereunder and actions and proceedings for collecting any tax so
levied or enforcing any provisions of this chapter are concerned, it shall
continue in full force and effect until all of the taxes levied in the
aforesaid period are fully paid and any and all suits and prosecutions for the
collection of taxes or for the punishment of violations of this chapter have
been fully terminated, subject to the limitations contained in §
880.41.
   (b)   Annual returns due for all or any part of the last effective year of
this chapter shall be due on the date provided in §
880.24 as though the same were continuing.
(Ord. 21-2015, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 880.45 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   If any sentence, clause, section or part of this chapter, or any tax imposed
against, or exemption from tax granted to, any taxpayer or forms of income
specified herein is found to be unconstitutional, illegal or invalid, such
unconstitutionality, illegality or invalidity shall affect only such clause,
sentence, section or part of this chapter so found and shall not affect or
impair any of the remaining provisions, sentences, clauses, sections or other
parts of this chapter. It is hereby declared to be the intention of the
legislative authority of the municipality that this chapter would have been
adopted had such unconstitutional, illegal or invalid sentence, clause, section
or part thereof not been included in this chapter.
(Ord. 21-2015, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 880.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   Except as provided in division (b) below, whoever violates §
880.38, division §
880.37(a), or §
880.10 by failing to remit municipal income taxes deducted and withheld from an
employee, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be
subject to a fine of not more than $1,000 or imprisonment for a term of up to
six months, or both. In addition, the violation is punishable by dismissal from
office or discharge from employment, or both.
   (b)   Any person who discloses information received from the Internal
Revenue Service in violation of Internal Revenue Code §§ 7213(a), 7213A, or
7431 shall be guilty of a felony of the fifth degree and shall be subject to a
fine of not more than $5,000 plus the costs of prosecution, or imprisonment for
a term not exceeding five years, or both. In addition, the violation is
punishable by dismissal from office or discharge from employment, or both.
   (c)   Each instance of access or disclosure in violation of §
880.37(a) constitutes a separate offense.
   (d)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which violation no
penalty is otherwise provided, is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree
on a first offense; on a second offense within one year after the first
offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree; on each
subsequent offense within one year after the first offense, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree. By way of an illustrative
enumeration, violations of this chapter shall include but not be limited to the
following acts, conduct and/or omissions:
      (1)   Fail, neglect or refuse to make any return or declaration required
by this chapter;
      (2)   Knowingly make any incomplete return;
      (3)   Willfully fail, neglect or refuse to pay the tax, penalties and
interest, or any combination thereof, imposed by this chapter;
      (4)   Cause to not be remitted the village income tax withheld from
qualifying wages of employees to the municipality municipal corporation as
required by §
880.10;
      (5)   Neglect or refuse to withhold or remit municipal income tax from
employees;
      (6)   Refuse to permit the Tax Administrator or any duly authorized agent
or employee to examine his or her books, records, papers, federal and state
income tax returns, or any documentation relating to the income or net profits
of a taxpayer;
      (7)   Fail to appear before the Tax Administrator and to produce his or
her books, records, papers, federal and state income tax returns or any
documentation relating to the income or net profits of a taxpayer upon order or
subpoena of the Tax Administrator;
      (8)   Refuse to disclose to the Tax Administrator any information with
respect to such person’s income or net profits, or in the case of a person
responsible for maintaining information relating to his or her employers’
income or net profits, such person’s employer’s income or net profits;
      (9)   Fail to comply with the provisions of this chapter or any order or
subpoena of the Tax Administrator;
      (10)   To avoid imposition or collection of municipal income tax,
willfully give to an employer or prospective employer false information as to
his or her true name, correct Social Security number and residence address, or
willfully fail to promptly notify an employer or a prospective employer of any
change in residence address and date thereof;
      (11)   Fail, as an employer, agent of an employer or other payer, to
maintain proper records of employees residence addresses, total qualifying
wages paid and municipal tax withheld or to knowingly give the Tax
Administrator false information;
      (12)   Willfully fail, neglect or refuse to make any payment of estimated
municipal income tax for any taxable year or any part of any taxable year in
accordance with this chapter; or
      (13)   Attempt to do anything whatsoever to avoid the payment of the
whole or any part of the tax, penalties or interest imposed by this chapter.
   (e)   For purposes of this section, any violation that does not specify a
culpable mental state or intent, shall be one of strict liability and no
culpable mental state or intent shall be required for a person to be guilty of
that violation.
   (f)   For purposes of this section, the term “person” shall, in addition to
the meaning prescribed in §
880.06(c), include in the case of a corporation, association, pass-through
entity or unincorporated business entity not having any resident owner or
officer within the village, any employee or agent of such corporation,
association, pass-through entity or unincorporated business entity who has
control or supervision over or is charged with the responsibility of filing the
municipal income tax returns and making the payments of the municipal income
tax as required by this chapter.
(Source: R.C. § 718.99)
(Ord. 21-2015, passed 11-9-2015)
PART TEN: STREETS, UTILITIES AND PUBLIC SERVICES CODE
   TITLE TWO – STREET AND SIDEWALKS
      
CHAP. 1020. STREETS.
      
CHAP. 1022. CONSTRUCTION, REPAIR AND REPLACEMENT OF SIDEWALKS, INTEGRAL
APPROACHES/APRONS AND RELATED AREAS.
   TITLE FOUR – UTILITIES
      
CHAP. 1040. WATER.
      
CHAP. 1042. SEWERS.
      
CHAP. 1044. GAS.
      
CHAP. 1046. ELECTRICITY.
   TITLE SIX – OTHER PUBLIC SERVICES
      
CHAP. 1060. GARBAGE AND RUBBISH COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL.
      
CHAP. 1062. MINERVA PARK LAKES AND PARK AREA.
      
CHAP. 1064. PARKS GENERALLY.
      
CHAP. 1066. ALARM SYSTEMS.
      
CHAP. 1068. JOINT TOWNSHIP HOSPITAL DISTRICT.
      
CHAP. 1070. COMMUNITY BUILDING.
TITLE TWO: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
CHAPTER 1020: STREETS
Section
1020.01   Maintenance of state highways.
Cross-reference:
   Height of limbs over streets, see §
1278.08(b)(3)
   Obstructions and special uses, see
Ch. 412
   Tree planting requirements, see §
1278.08
   Uses of rights-of-way, see
Ch. 1477
Statutory reference:
   Change of name, vacating and narrowing, see R.C. §§ 723.04 et seq.
   Openings by the village, see R.C. § 723.02
   Power to establish and care for streets, see R.C. §§ 715.19, 717.01, 723.01
§ 1020.01 MAINTENANCE OF STATE HIGHWAYS.
   (a)   It is hereby declared to be in the public interest that the consent of
the village be, and such consent hereby is, given to the Ohio Department of
Transportation for said Department to maintain the traveled portions of, apply
standard longitudinal pavement markings to, erect regulatory and warning signs
along, and plow snow and place abrasives for ice control on, the state highways
in the village in accordance with the standard practices of the Ohio Department
of Transportation.
   (b)   The Fiscal Officer is hereby directed to furnish the Ohio Director of
Transportation and the Board of County Commissioners with a certified copy of
this section immediately upon the taking effect thereof.
(Ord. 4-92, passed 3-9-1992)
CHAPTER 1022: CONSTRUCTION, REPAIR AND REPLACEMENT OF SIDEWALKS, INTEGRAL
APPROACHES/APRONS AND RELATED AREAS
Section
1022.01   Definitions.
1022.02   Obligation of abutting owner.
1022.03   Inspection criteria.
1022.04   Procedure for construction, repair or replacement.
1022.05   Construction by property owner.
1022.06   Consent.
1022.07   Mandatory disclosure.
1022.08   Specifications.
1022.09   Failure to complete construction, repair or replacement.
Cross-reference:
   Duty to keep sidewalks clean and in repair, §§ 660.05, 660.10
Statutory reference:
   Construction or repair at owner’s expense, see R.C. §§ 729.01 et seq.
   Notice to construct or repair sidewalks, see R.C. §§ 729.03 et seq.
§ 1022.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter:
   (a)   "Abutting owner." An individual or entity indicated on the most recent
tax records of the Franklin County Auditor's office as owners, in whole or in
part, whose property frontage confronts, is adjacent to or abuts the sidewalk,
integral approach/apron and related areas. The village intends that all owners
of a parcel shall be obligated pursuant to the provisions of this chapter on a
joint and several basis as this chapter affects any parcel. Further, for
purposes of this chapter, any one owner of real estate shall be deemed to be
the agent of all other owners of that real estate.
   (b)   "Affected areas." Those areas requiring sidewalk construction, repair
or replacement after inspection including sidewalks and/or integral approach/
aprons.
   (c)   "Block or blocks." Approximately equally spaced, generally
rectangular, blocks as visible on the surface of a sidewalk area, or blocks as
visible on the surface of an integral approach/apron area, formed by saw cut
joints or tooled joints in the concrete (control/contraction joints) and/or by
expansion joints.
   (d)   "Curb ramp." A short ramp cutting through a curb or built up to it. If
designed and constructed to be accessible, a curb ramp provides an accessible
route that people with disabilities can use to safely transition from a roadway
to a curbed sidewalk and vice versa.
   (e)   "Handicap access/approach." That portion contiguous to an integral
approach/apron or sidewalk designed and constructed pursuant to The Americans
with Disabilities Act (ADA) as it now exists or may from time to time hereafter
be amended.
   (f)   "Integral approach/apron." That portion of a driveway between the
street and the public right-of-way or easement dedicated to the public use
containing a sidewalk crossing through it.
   (g)   "Primary inspection area." The inspection area selected for special
attention for a given calendar year, as determined by the Village Engineer/Code
Enforcement Officer or designated representative and subsequently approved by
Council Resolution, which contains properties which have frontages confronting,
adjacent to or abutting a sidewalk, integral approach/apron and related areas.
Such areas are inspected as set forth within §
1022.04(a).
   (h)   "Secondary inspection area." The inspection area containing all other
properties within the village, in addition to the primary inspection area,
which have frontages confronting, adjacent to or abutting a sidewalk, integral
approach/apron and related areas. Such areas are inspected as set forth within
§
1022.04(b).
   (i)   "Sidewalk." A hard surface portion of the street system for pedestrian
use which lies outside the curb lines (or integral with the curb) or edge of
pavement of the roadway. An area abutting a public right-of-way improved, or
intended to be improved, as part of an overall pedestrian travel system within
the community.
(Ord. 09-2020, passed 8-10-2020)
§ 1022.02 OBLIGATION OF ABUTTING OWNER.
   (a)   All sidewalks, integral approaches/aprons within the village shall be
constructed and maintained in a good state of repair at all times, they must be
kept reasonably clean of snow and ice during the winter months and free of
obstructions at all times by the abutting owner or owners of the property in
accordance with the requirements of the village as set forth herein and as such
requirements may from time to time be amended.
   (b)   It is important to note that it is the intent of the village that a
“curb ramp” as defined in §
1022.01(d) above be repaired and maintained by the village when in located
within the public right-of-way.
(Ord. 09-2020, passed 8-10-2020)
§ 1022.03 INSPECTION CRITERIA.
   (a)   Primary Inspection Area Criteria. The inspection criteria to be
utilized by the Village Engineer/code enforcement officer or designated
representative shall include inspection of any condition deemed by such
official to be potentially detrimental to the public health, safety and welfare
and shall include, at a minimum, the examination of the following which, if
such conditions exist, shall necessitate repair or replacement:
      (1)   Any block having a crack or cracks one-half inch or more wide.
      (2)   Adjoining blocks or portions thereof whose edges differ vertically
by one-half inch or more.
      (3)   Blocks that have holes in them one-fourth inch or more in diameter
or are broken such that pieces are missing or loose.
      (4)   Blocks having depressions, reverse cross-slope (sloping away from
the street) or below curb grade so as to impound mud or water.
      (5)   Blocks having a cross-slope and/or longitudinal slope that is
deemed excessive by the Village Engineer/Code Enforcement Officer or the
designated representative.
      (6)   Blocks that cause an abrupt change in the longitudinal grade of the
sidewalk.
      (7)   Blocks that are raveled; i.e. the surface finish has spalled,
leaving it rougher with the coarser aggregate exposed.
      (8)   Any material replaced or repaired without prior approval of the
Village Engineer/Code Enforcement Officer or designated representative unless
such official determines such repair or replacement to be in satisfactory
condition and in accordance with the standards and specifications for such
repairs or replacements adopted by the village.
      (9)   The sod area between the sidewalk and the street protrudes above
the sidewalk and impounds water or causes it to drain along the sidewalk (where
the sidewalk itself is otherwise in accordance with the standards and
specifications adopted by the village). In such cases the condition should be
corrected by lowering the sod. In cases where the sod area on either side of
the sidewalk is below the grade of the sidewalk (where the sidewalk itself is
otherwise in accordance with the standards and specifications adopted by the
village), a fill should be made and the area either sodded or seeded.
      (10)   Stumps, stones, private signposts or any other unauthorized
obstruction in the sidewalk space.
      (11)   Water-stop boxes, gas stop-boxes, etc., that are not to proper
grade.
      (12)   The integral approach/apron is required to be repaired or replaced
if the repair or replacement of the sidewalk block area crossing through it
requires a disturbance to the integral approach/apron.
      (13)   Any horizontal gap (as measured from inside radius to inside
radius of tooled joints) between adjoining blocks three-fourths inch or more
wide.
   (b)   Secondary Inspection Area Criteria. The inspection criteria to be
utilized by the Village Engineer/Code Enforcement Officer or designated
representative shall include inspection of such "triggering" condition as set
forth within § 1022.03(b)(1) which, if such condition exists, shall be deemed
by such official to be potentially detrimental to the public health, safety and
welfare and shall necessitate repair or replacement of said condition along
with any and all such other condition(s) as may exist as further set forth
within § 1022.03(a):
      (1)   Adjoining blocks or portions thereof whose edges differ vertically
by two inches or more.
(Ord. 09-2020, passed 8-10-2020)
§ 1022.04 PROCEDURE FOR CONSTRUCTION, REPAIR OR REPLACEMENT.
   When the Village Engineer/Code Enforcement Officer or designated
representative finds deficiencies after such inspection, such official shall:
   (a)   Verify the identity of the property owner or owners utilizing the
Franklin County Auditor's records.
   (b)   Prepare a notice for each property setting forth the deficiencies
discovered upon inspection, and other pertinent information as set forth in
division (d).
   (c)   Serve the notice of deficiency on each property owner. Service shall
be made upon the property owner or owners by ordinary U.S. Mail, postage
prepaid. The village shall also post a list of such information in the manner
it uses for posting legislation so that it is accessible to the public. The
village may additionally post such information at its website.
   (d)   Such notice shall indicate the following:
      (1)   The deficiencies discovered as a result of inspection.
      (2)   That a property owner(s) has 60 days from transmittal of the notice
to complete the repairs as outlined in the notice of deficiency.
      (3)   The requirements for permitting and inspection if the property
owner(s).
      (4)   If trees within the public right-of-way abutting the owner(s)'
property are damaged or lost as a result of such construction in furtherance of
this chapter, the abutting property owner(s) must replace the trees at their
cost. The abutting property owner(s) must work with the village on having the
replacement tree(s) approved before installation.
      (5)   Repair or replacement shall consist of:
         A.   Concrete leveling (also known as pumping or jacking) to proper
line and grade, as determined by the Village Engineer/Code Enforcement Officer
or designated representative, for repair of adjoining blocks which have edges
differing vertically, and said blocks pass all other inspection criteria as set
forth in this chapter.
         B.   Horizontal gap filling for repairing horizontal gaps between
adjoining blocks measuring up to, and including, one and one-half inches, and
said blocks pass all other inspection criteria as set forth in this chapter.
The joint sealant shall be polyurethane, self-leveling sealant and the sealant
and application method shall be approved, in writing and prior to construction,
by the Village Engineer/Code Enforcement Officer or designated representative.
However; this method is not approved for repair of cracks within the area of a
block; for such conditions the blocks shall be constructed or replaced, to
proper line and grade, as determined by the Village Engineer/Code Enforcement
Officer or designated representative, and such work shall be in accordance with
specifications as set forth in this chapter. Further, for horizontal gaps
between adjoining blocks exceeding one and one-half inches, the blocks shall be
constructed or replaced, to proper line and grade, as determined by the Village
Engineer/Code Enforcement Officer or designated representative, and such work
shall be in accordance with specifications as set forth in this chapter.
         C.   Construction or replacement, to proper line and grade, as
determined by the Village Engineer/Code Enforcement Officer or designated
representative, and such work shall be in accordance with specifications as set
forth in this chapter.
         D.   Other methods are not acceptable unless otherwise approved in
writing, and prior to construction, by the Village Engineer/Code Enforcement
Officer or designated representative.
      (6)   That if the property owner(s) disagrees with the findings by the
Village Engineer/Code Enforcement Officer or designated representative, that
property owner may appeal to Council. At such hearing(s), the property owner
has the burden to present sufficient evidence to overcome the presumption that
said findings are appropriate.
(Ord. 09-2020, passed 8-10-2020)
§ 1022.05 CONSTRUCTION BY PROPERTY OWNER.
   (a)   All property owners shall take responsibility for performing the
required construction, repairs and replacements shall return to the village,
within 20 days of the date of the notice sent by the village, the following
requirements and specifications:
      (1)   Notify the Village Engineer/Code Enforcement Officer or designated
representative in writing of the identity of the contractor(s) who will perform
the work so the village may register the contractor and examine the contractor
(s)' licensing.
      (2)   Identify the proposed method(s) of construction, repair or
replacement so the Village Engineer/Code Enforcement Officer or designated
representative may determine appropriateness. The village-approved methods of
sidewalk, integral approach/apron construction, repair or replacement consist
of:
         A.   Concrete leveling (also known as pumping or jacking) to proper
line and grade, as determined by the Village Engineer/Code Enforcement Officer
or designated representative, for repair of adjoining blocks which have edges
differing vertically, and said blocks pass all other inspection criteria as set
forth in this chapter.
         B.   Horizontal gap filling for repairing horizontal gaps between
adjoining blocks measuring up to, and including, one and one-half inches, and
said blocks pass all other inspection criteria as set forth in this chapter.
The joint sealant shall be polyurethane, self-leveling sealant and the sealant
and application method shall be approved, in writing and prior to construction,
by the Village Engineer/Code Enforcement Officer or designated representative.
However; this method is not approved for repair of cracks within the area of a
block; for such conditions the blocks shall be constructed or replaced, to
proper line and grade, as determined by the Village Engineer/Code Enforcement
Officer or designated representative, and such work shall be in accordance with
specifications as set forth in this chapter. Further, for horizontal gaps
between adjoining blocks exceeding one and one-half inches, the blocks shall be
constructed or replaced, to proper line and grade, as determined by the Village
Engineer/Code Enforcement Officer or designated representative, and such work
shall be in accordance with specifications as set forth in this chapter.
         C.   Construction or replacement, to proper line and grade, as
determined by the Village Engineer/Code Enforcement Officer or designated
representative, and such work shall be in accordance with specifications as set
forth in this chapter.
         D.   Other methods are not acceptable unless otherwise approved in
writing, and prior to construction, by the Village Engineer/Code Enforcement
Officer or designated representative.
      (3)   Acknowledge on the notice to the village that the improvement will
be completed within 60 days (from the date the village receives the opt-out
notice from the property owner(s)) in a fashion satisfactory to the Village
Engineer/Code Enforcement Officer or designated representative or that the
property owner will be subject to a fine at the rate of $50 per day until such
improvements are constructed in a satisfactory manner as determined by such
public official, each day being a separate offense, and that the village may,
at the village's option, accomplish such construction and place a lien on the
landowner's property for the cost of such construction.
   (b)   The Village Engineer/Code Enforcement Officer or designated
representative may extend, in such public official's sole discretion, the time
for performance by the property owner for any reason deemed appropriate by such
public official including delays occasioned by natural disaster, weather or
other unforeseen circumstances.
(Ord. 09-2020, passed 8-10-2020)
§ 1022.06 CONSENT.
   Every owner of real property in the Village of Minerva Park is:
   (a)   Deemed to have consented to the entry upon private property as
considered appropriate by the Village Engineer/Code Enforcement Officer or
designated representative for any of the purposes set forth in this chapter.
   (b)   Deemed to have consented to the grinding, cutting or removing of roots
and trees within the public right-of-way abutting the owner(s)' property or the
grinding, cutting or removing of roots in the public right-of-way for trees
located on the owner(s)' private property if such grinding, cutting or removing
of roots occurs in furtherance of this chapter.
   (c)   Any public official is immune from civil or criminal liability for
entry upon real property in furtherance of the purposes set forth in this
chapter and the village and its agents and employees shall have no liability
for the damage or destruction to any trees or tree roots for activity conducted
in furtherance of the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 09-2020, passed 8-10-2020)
§ 1022.07 MANDATORY DISCLOSURE.
   Any property owner who receives the notice set forth in §
1022.05 or and, who thereafter transfers all or any portion of the title to the
property before concluding such repairs and having them accepted by the village
is under an affirmative duty to disclose in writing to the transferee of such
property of the contents of the notice. The failure of the property owner to
disclose such information to the transferee shall result in the property owner
being liable to the transferee for all costs associated with the repair or
improvements to such property required to be completed by the transferee
including reasonable attorneys fees incurred by the transferee for the purpose
of collecting such sums from the transferor (property owner). Nothing contained
within this section shall be construed to alter or diminish the village's
rights under §
1022.05(b) to collect all amounts due from the transferee or any subsequent
transferee.
(Ord. 09-2020, passed 8-10-2020)
§ 1022.08 SPECIFICATIONS.
   (a)   Concrete sidewalk specifications shall be in accordance with the most
current edition of the State of Ohio, Department of Transportation,
Construction and Material Specifications (ODTS), Items 608.01, 608.02, 608.03,
608.08 and 608.09, except as follows (all item numbers refer to the ODTS):
      (1)   Concrete shall be Class C, Items 499 and 511, unless otherwise
specified or approved, in writing and prior to construction, by the Village
Engineer/Code Enforcement Officer or designated representative;
      (2)   An aggregate base of four inches (thickness) of compacted No. 57
stones (or equivalent approved by the Village Engineer/Code Enforcement Officer
or designated representative) shall be placed on top of the prepared subgrade
prior to placing concrete for the sidewalk. The subgrade shall be shaped and
uniformly compacted to meet the requirements of Item 203 or as ordered by the
Village Engineer/Code Enforcement Officer or designated representative;
      (3)   The finished surface of the sidewalk shall be float-finished, or
broom-finished, perpendicular to the direction of travel path, to obtain a
sandy texture-decorative patterns on the finished surface are prohibited
(unless otherwise approved, in writing and prior to construction, by the
Village Engineer/Code Enforcement Officer or designated representative). Do not
plaster the concrete. Use a one-fourth-inch radius edging tool to edge all
outside edges and joints;
      (4)   Concrete curing shall be in accordance with Item ODTS 608.03.E
(however water curing is prohibited);
      (5)   Sidewalks shall consist of four inches (thickness) of concrete,
except where the sidewalk crosses through driveways, in which case the
thickness shall be six inches and such thickness must extend one foot wider
than the driveway on each side of the driveway;
      (6)   Transverse control/contraction joints (exclusive of expansion
joints) for sidewalks may be sawcut (approximately one-eighth-inch width);
however, tooled transverse control/contraction joints (exclusive of expansion
joints) shall not exceed one-half-inch width from outside radius to outside
radius of tooled joint;
      (7)   The surface of sidewalks shall be divided into blocks by joints
(transverse control/contraction or expansion) equally spaced at approximately
five-foot intervals, to form rectangular blocks;
      (8)   Expansion joint material one-half inch thick shall be installed for
transverse expansion joints to the full depth and across the full width of the
concrete sidewalk at intervals of 30 feet minimum, as well as when the sidewalk
thickness changes such as at driveways (see division (a)(3) above), and between
the walk and any fixed structures or objects including existing or proposed
concrete sidewalks, driveways or driveway aprons. The top of the expansion
joint material shall be flush with the finished surface of the sidewalk and
shall not protrude above the finished surface of the sidewalk;
      (9)   The transverse slope of the surface of the sidewalk shall be three-
sixteenths-inch per foot (i.e., 1.6%) preferred; however, the transverse slope
shall not exceed 2.0% (i.e., 1:50). Transverse slopes, in accordance with this
specification, shall also apply to sidewalks that cross through driveways. The
low side of the sidewalk shall be the side adjacent to the roadway;
      (10)   The longitudinal slope of the surface of the sidewalk shall not
exceed 5.0% (i.e., 1:20), exclusive of ramps;
      (11)   Sidewalks shall be five feet in width in residential sections of
the village unless otherwise approved, in writing and prior to construction, by
the Village Engineer/Code Enforcement Officer or designated representative and
shall have been previously approved by the Village Planning and Zoning
Commission;
      (12)   Appurtenances including, but not necessarily limited to, water and
gas valve boxes, manholes, sign posts and utility poles shall be located
outside of the sidewalk area unless otherwise approved, in writing and prior to
construction, by the Village Engineer/Code Enforcement Officer or designated
representative;
      (13)   Roof/sump drains shall be extended beneath the concrete sidewalk
through to the curb, at which point they shall be day lighted by coring of an
appropriately sized hole through the curb. Drain pipes shall not encroach
vertically within the concrete of the sidewalk;
      (14)   Fills, if required, shall be of clean earth (free of foreign
materials), compacted in two-inch lifts; or of a suitable aggregate base, as
approved by the Village Engineer/Code Enforcement Officer or designated
representative, compacted in lifts not exceeding four inches;
      (15)   All public sidewalks shall be contained within the public right-
of-way, or within a recorded easement, approved in writing and prior to
construction by the Village Engineer/Code Enforcement Officer or designated
representative, and such easement shall deed rights to the village for the
location of the sidewalk and for the public pedestrian use of the sidewalk;
      (16)   As soon as the concrete is firmly set, the forms shall be removed
and finished grade shall be made to the level of the concrete sidewalk edges;
      (17)   Obstructions, such as valuable trees of long standing, may be
avoided by aligning the sidewalk around the tree. In such cases, the alignment
of the sidewalk shall be approved, in writing and prior to construction, by the
Village Engineer/Code Enforcement Officer or designated representative. In all
cases of injury to persons or property caused from any obstruction, the village
shall not be liable for damage in any respect;
      (18)   All formwork shall be inspected, and receive written approval by
the Village Engineer/Code Enforcement Officer or designated representative,
prior to placing of concrete;
      (19)   All materials used, and completed work, shall be to the
satisfaction of the Village Engineer/Code Enforcement Officer or designated
representative, and shall be free from defects and deficiencies including, but
not limited to, surface defects and deficiencies such as uneven/non-uniform
discoloration, marring, blotchiness, spalling, peeling, raveling or loss of any
kind of the surface finish or exposure of aggregate beneath the finished
surface or premature deterioration of the curing compound;
      (20)   The contractor, or other party performing the construction, shall
be solely responsible for ensuring the sidewalk is compliant with the
requirements of The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) as it now exists or
may from time to time hereafter be amended;
      (21)   The contractor, or other party performing the construction, shall
be solely responsible for positively protecting against the adverse impacts
that may be caused by weather conditions of any kind. Further, the method
employed for protecting the work shall not adversely affect the work in any
way;
      (22)   The contractor, or other party performing the construction, shall
be solely responsible for all work site safety and shall comply with all
federal, state and local laws, regulations, findings and orders relating to
safety and health conditions on the work site;
      (23)   For repair of existing sidewalk with horizontal gaps between
adjoining blocks measuring up to, and including, one and one-half inches, and
said blocks pass all other inspection criteria as set forth in this chapter, a
joint sealer may be used to fill gaps. The joint sealer shall be polyurethane,
self-leveling sealant and the sealant and application method shall be approved,
in writing and prior to construction, by the Village Engineer/Code Enforcement
Officer or designated representative. However; this method is not approved for
repair of cracks within the area of a block; for such conditions the blocks
shall be constructed or replaced, to proper line and grade, as determined by
the Village Engineer/Code Enforcement Officer or designated representative, and
such work shall be in accordance with specifications as set forth in this
chapter. Further, for horizontal gaps between adjoining blocks exceeding one
and one-half inches, the blocks shall be constructed or replaced, to proper
line and grade, as determined by the Village Engineer/Code Enforcement Officer
or designated representative, and such work shall be in accordance with
specifications as set forth in this chapter.
   (b)   Concrete approach/apron specifications shall be in accordance with the
most current edition of the State of Ohio, Department of Transportation,
Construction and Material Specifications (ODTS), Items 608.01, 608.02, 608.03,
608.08 and 608.09, except as follows (all item numbers refer to the ODTS):
      (1)   Concrete shall be Class C, Items 499 and 511, unless otherwise
specified or approved, in writing and prior to construction, by the Village
Engineer/Code Enforcement Officer or designated representative;
      (2)   Excavation and forms shall be in accordance with Items 608.03.A and
608.03.B respectively. The subgrade shall be shaped and uniformly compacted to
meet the requirements of Item 203 or as ordered by the Village Engineer/Code
Enforcement Officer or designated representative;
      (3)   Concrete placing and finishing shall be as follows:
         A.   An aggregate base of four inches (thickness) of compacted No. 57
stones (or equivalent approved by the Village Engineer/Code Enforcement Officer
or designated representative) shall be placed on top of the prepared subgrade
prior to placing concrete;
         B.   Deposit concrete in a single layer, strike it off with a
template, and finish the surface by float-finishing, or broom-finishing,
perpendicular to the direction of travel path, to obtain a sandy texture -
decorative patterns on the finished surface are prohibited (unless otherwise
approved, in writing and prior to construction, by the Village Engineer/Code
Enforcement Officer or designated representative). Do not plaster the concrete.
Use a one-fourth-inch radius edging tool to edge all outside edges and joints;
         C.   Concrete shall be six inches thick;
         D.   Control/contraction joints (exclusive of expansion joints) may be
tooled or sawcut (if sawcut, approximately one-eight-inch width; if tooled,
shall not exceed one-half inch width as measured from outside radius to outside
radius of tooled joint). Control/contraction joints shall be appropriately
located relative to the size (area) of the approach/apron as approved by the
Village Engineer/Code Enforcement Officer or designated representative;
         E.   Expansion joint material one-half inch thick shall be installed
at expansion joints to the full depth and across the full length of the
concrete approach/apron at the back of concrete curb from limit of approach/
apron flare to flare and between the sidewalk and approach/apron. The top of
the expansion joint material shall be flush with the finished surface and shall
not protrude above the finished surface.
      (4)   Concrete curing shall be in accordance with Item 608.03.E (however;
water curing is prohibited);
      (5)   The minimum width of the approach/apron shall be ten feet; however,
the maximum width of the approach/apron shall not exceed 20 feet. The
aforementioned approach/apron width is that width exclusive of the flares. The
approach/apron shall be flared on each side at the interface with the curb. The
flares shall be two feet, typical;
      (6)   Appurtenances including, but not necessarily limited to, water and
gas valve boxes and manholes shall be located outside of the approach/apron
area unless otherwise approved, in writing and prior to construction, by the
Village Engineer/Code Enforcement Officer or designated representative;
      (7)   Fills, if required, shall be of clean earth (free of foreign
materials), compacted in two-inch lifts; or of a suitable aggregate base, as
approved by the Village Engineer/Code Enforcement Officer or designated
representative, compacted in lifts not exceeding four inches;
      (8)   As soon as the concrete is firmly set, the forms shall be removed
and finished grade shall be made to the level of the concrete edges;
      (9)   All formwork shall be inspected, and receive written approval by
the Village Engineer/Code Enforcement Officer or designated representative,
prior to placing of concrete;
      (10)   All materials used, and completed work, shall be to the
satisfaction of the Village Engineer/Code Enforcement Officer or designated
representative, and shall be free from defects and deficiencies including, but
not limited to, surface defects and deficiencies such as uneven/non-uniform
discoloration, marring, blotchiness, spalling, peeling, raveling or loss of any
kind of the surface finish or exposure of aggregate beneath the finished
surface or premature deterioration of the curing compound;
      (11)   The contractor, or other party performing the construction, shall
be solely responsible for positively protecting against the adverse impacts
that may be caused by weather conditions of any kind. Further, the method
employed for protecting the work shall not adversely affect the work in any
way;
      (12)   The contractor, or other party performing the construction, shall
be solely responsible for all work site safety and shall comply with all
federal, state and local laws, regulations, findings and orders relating to
safety and health conditions on the work site;
      (13)   For repair of horizontal gaps between adjoining blocks of existing
sidewalk and driveway integral approach/aprons measuring up to, and including,
one and one-half inches, and said blocks pass all other inspection criteria as
set forth in this chapter, a joint sealer may be used to fill gaps. The joint
sealer shall be polyurethane, self-leveling sealant and the sealant and
application method shall be approved, in writing and prior to construction, by
the Village Engineer/Code Enforcement Officer or designated representative.
However; this method is not approved for repair of cracks within the area of a
block; for such conditions the blocks shall be constructed or replaced, to
proper line and grade, as determined by the Village Engineer/Code Enforcement
Officer or designated representative, and such work shall be in accordance with
specifications as set forth in this chapter. Further, for horizontal gaps
between adjoining blocks of existing sidewalk and driveway integral approach/
aprons exceeding one and one-half inches, the blocks shall be constructed or
replaced, to proper line and grade, as determined by the Village Engineer/Code
Enforcement Officer or designated representative, and such work shall be in
accordance with specifications as set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 09-2020, passed 8-10-2020)
§ 1022.09 FAILURE TO COMPLETE CONSTRUCTION, REPAIR OR REPLACEMENT.
   Any property owner who fails to construct, repair, or replace the affected
area in accordance with the provisions of this chapter shall:
   (a)   Be sent a written notice by the Village Engineer/Code Enforcement
Officer or designated representative of the failure to complete construction,
repair or replacement.
   (b)   Be advised in the notice by the village that the village shall proceed
to accomplish such construction, repair, or replacement on such basis as the
village deems appropriate.
   (c)   Be advised that a fine may be imposed at the rate of $50 per day until
such improvements are constructed in such a fashion satisfactory to the
village, each day of such violation constituting a separate offense, and that
the village may place a lien on the property for nonpayment of construction
costs and/or fines.
   (d)   Be sent the notice required by this division in accordance with the
provisions and in the manner set forth for service of summons in civil
proceedings as set forth in the Ohio Rules of Civil Procedure.
   (e)   Be guilty of a misdemeanor for and fined not less than $50 and not
more than $300 for constructing, repairing or replacing without a permit.
(Ord. 09-2020, passed 8-10-2020)
TITLE FOUR: UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1040: WATER
EDITOR’S NOTE: A contract for water service between the City of Columbus and
the village was entered into on June 10, 2013, pursuant to Resolution 2013-15
of the village.
Section
1040.01   Usage charges and surcharges.
1040.02   Tap-in fees.
1040.03   Recording and use of surcharge, usage and tap-in fees.
1040.99   Penalty.
Cross-reference:
   Water pollution, §
660.04
Statutory reference:
   Compulsory water connections, see R.C. §§ 729.06, 743.23
   Management and control of waterworks, see R.C. §§ 735.28 et seq., 743.26 et
seq.
   Power to provide and regulate water system, see R.C. §§ 715.08, 717.01,
743.01
   Tampering with water hydrants, pipes or meters, unauthorized connections,
see R.C. § 4933.22
   Water pollution, see R.C. §§ 715.08, 743.25
   Weekly deposit of waterworks money collected, see R.C. § 743.06
§ 1040.01 USAGE CHARGES AND SURCHARGES.
   (a)   A surcharge and usage charge shall be added to the quarterly water
bills of all households and businesses within the village in order to provide
the necessary funds for the maintenance, repair, replacement, improvement of
the water lines and debt service.
   (b)   A quarterly surcharge based on the usage of each householder or
business and determined by the Village Council to be $5.50 per 1,000 cubic feet
of water used plus a quarterly flat surcharge of $8.75 per quarter shall be
imposed.
   (c)   The City of Columbus is hereby authorized, through the billing
performed by the Division of Water of such city, to collect for the village a
local water surcharge and usage fees, the fees shall be collected as are other
water charges.
(Ord. 13-2016, passed 9-26-2016)
§ 1040.02 TAP-IN FEE.
   (a)   Definitions; as used in this section:
      (1)   “Service connection.” The connection of all or any part of a water
service line to a tap.
      (2)   “Tap.” The connection to a water main and the necessary pipes or
lines extending from a water main to and including the curb stop or valve and
box.
   (b)   A water system capacity charge (tap-in fee) shall be charged for each
service connection made by any property to a water main and shall be paid at
the time a permit and a meter is issued for the water connection. No person
shall make a water service connection or any part thereof, unless a permit and
a meter has been issued therefore by the Columbus Division of Water. In the
event that a tap is subsequently enlarged, the difference between the current
charges for the two tap sizes shall be paid.
   (c)   The charge exacted pursuant to this section shall be a fee in
accordance with the fee schedule adopted and approved by Village Council. The
water tap-in fee shall be paid to the City of Columbus and the City of Columbus
shall collect and pay to the village the village’s surcharge, pursuant to the
water service agreement between the village and the City of Columbus.
(Ord. 13-2016, passed 9-26-2016)
§ 1040.03 RECORDING AND USE OF SURCHARGE, USAGE AND TAP-IN FEES.
   (a)   The amounts collected for surcharges, usage and tap-in fees shall be
credited to the water line maintenance fund after allocations for debt service
as determined by the Fiscal Officer.
   (b)   The surcharges, usage and tap-in fees shall be used for the
maintenance, repair, replacement and debt service on the water lines and
hydrants, including, but not limited to, feasibility studies, engineering and
any related activities within the village.
   (c)   The Fiscal Officer, as part of the annual budget process, shall adjust
the amount of the surcharges and usage fees allocated to debt service so that
it results in approximately equal amounts recorded in the debt service funds in
each of the remaining years the debt is outstanding. A final adjustment may be
made in the last year that the debt is to be retired.
(Ord. 13-2016, passed 9-26-2016)
§ 1040.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the forth degree and shall be fined not more than $250 or
imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both, for each offense. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues.
(Ord. 13-2016, passed 9-26-2016)
CHAPTER 1042: SEWERS
EDITOR’S NOTE: A contract for sewer service between the City of Columbus and
the village was entered into on December 27, 2007, pursuant to Ordinance 14-
2007 of the village. Copies of the latest relevant legislation may be obtained,
at cost, from the Fiscal Officer.
Section
1042.01   Usage charges and surcharges.
1042.02   Tap-in fee.
1042.03   Recording and use of surcharge, usage and tap-in fees.
1042.04   Introduction of detrimental or harmful substances.
1042.05   Inclusion of village in county sewer district.
1042.99   Penalty.
Cross-reference:
   Discharge of stormwaters into sanitary systems, see §
1466.05
Statutory reference:
   Compulsory sewer connections, see R.C. § 729.06
   Interference with sewage flow, see R.C. § 4933.24
   Management and control of sewerage system, see R.C. § 729.50
   Regulations to control house sewers and connections, see R.C. § 729.51
   Sewerage rates, see R.C. §§ 729.49, 729.52
   Untreated sewage, see R.C. § 3701.59
   Water pollution control, see R.C. Ch. 6111
§ 1042.01 USAGE CHARGES AND SURCHARGES.
   (a)   A surcharge and usage charge shall be added to the quarterly sewer
bills of all households and businesses within the village in order to provide
the necessary funds for the maintenance, repair, replacement, improvement of
the sewer lines and debt service.
   (b)   A quarterly surcharge based on the usage of each householder or
business and determined by the Village Council to be $0.86 per 1,000 cubic feet
of water used and a quarterly flat surcharge of $16.25 per quarter shall be
imposed.
   (c)   The City of Columbus is hereby authorized, through the billing
performed by the Division of Water of such city, to collect for the village a
local sanitary sewer surcharge and usage fees. The fees shall be collected as
are other sewer charges.
(Ord. 13-2016, passed 9-26-2016)
§ 1042.02 TAP-IN FEE.
   (a)   For the purpose of providing funds to help finance and to more
equitably distribute the cost of construction of necessary additions to the
sewerage system, it is hereby determined and declared to be necessary to
provide for the establishment, exaction and regulation of a sanitary sewerage
system capacity and connection charge, as hereinafter determined. Such charges
are to be an addition to any and all other fees which may be imposed with
respect to the village sewerage system.
   (b)   The funds received from the collection of such charges shall be
credited to the Sewer Maintenance Fund.
   (c)   A sanitary sewerage system capacity charge shall be exacted whenever:
      (1)   Application is made for the issuance of a sewer permit to provide
sanitary sewer service to a new structure; and
      (2)   An existing structure is enlarged or its use changed, which
necessitates a larger water tap.
   (d)   The charge exacted pursuant to this section shall be a fee in
accordance with the fee schedule adopted and approved by Village Council.
(Ord. 13-2016, passed 9-26-2016)
§ 1042.03 RECORDING AND USE OF SURCHARGE, USAGE AND TAP-IN FEES.
   (a)   The amounts collected for surcharges, usage and tap-in fees shall be
credited to the Sewer Maintenance Fund after allocations for debt service as
determined by the Fiscal Officer.
   (b)   The surcharges, usage and tap-in fees shall be used for the
engineering, construction, management and repair of the sanitary sewerage
system, regulator chambers, storm standby tanks and pumping stations and for
the payment of the cost and expense of replacement, extensions to or
enlargement of the same and for the payment of principal and interest on any
debt incurred for the construction of such sewerage system, regulator chambers,
storm standby tanks and pumping stations, and for the payment to the City of
Columbus of its portion of the charge, pursuant to the sanitary sewer agreement
between the village and the City of Columbus.
   (c)   The Fiscal Officer, as part of the annual budget process, shall adjust
the amount of the surcharges and usage fees allocated for debt service so that
it results in approximately equal amounts recorded in the debt service fund(s)
in each of the remaining years the debt is outstanding. A final adjustment may
be made in the last year that the debt is to be retired.
(Ord. 13-2016, passed 9-26-2016)
§ 1042.04 INTRODUCTION OF DETRIMENTAL OR HARMFUL SUBSTANCES.
   (a)   No user of the sanitary sewers of the village shall introduce into the
sewers any sewage or waste substance of such a nature as to be detrimental or
harmful to the effective treatment or disposal of sewage and waste in
accordance with accepted standards. So long as the city discharges its sewage,
industrial waste, water and other liquid waste into the transportation, pumping
and treatment system of the City of Columbus, all of the provisions of Chapters
1145 and 1147 of the Columbus City Code, both as they exist and as they are
hereafter amended, relating to the regulation of sewage use are hereby adopted
by reference and made applicable to the city sewerage system. In the event of
conflict between the provisions of this chapter and Chapters 1145 and 1147 of
the Columbus City Code, the provisions of Chapters 1145 and 3147 of the
Columbus City Code shall prevail. Officers and employees of the City of
Columbus are hereby empowered to enforce such provisions of the Columbus City
Code within the boundaries of the City.
   (b)   Any person who violates division (a) hereof shall, upon order of the
Mayor, immediately cease to discharge such detrimental or harmful substance
into sewerage system of the village.
(Ord. 13-2016, passed 9-26-2016)
§ 1042.05 INCLUSION OF VILLAGE IN COUNTY SEWER DISTRICT.
   The Board of County Commissioners is hereby authorized to lay out, establish
and maintain a sewer district within said county, so as to include all of the
territory of the village therein.
(Ord. 42, passed 3-14-1956)
§ 1042.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the forth degree and shall be fined not more than $250 or
imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both, for each offense. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues.
(Ord. 13-2016, passed 9-26-2016)
CHAPTER 1044: GAS
EDITOR’S NOTE: The village contracts from time to time with Columbia Gas of
Ohio for natural gas services. Copies of the latest relevant legislation may be
obtained, at cost, from the Fiscal Officer.
   There are no sections in Chapter 1044. This chapter has been established to
provide a place for cross-references and for any future legislation.
Statutory reference:
   Gas companies may extend mains beyond village, see R.C. § 4933.05
   Gas companies may manufacture and supply both electricity and gas, see R.C.
§ 4933.02
   Gas meters, see R.C. §§ 4933.08 et seq.
   Sale of natural gas to village, see R.C. § 743.35
CHAPTER 1046: ELECTRICITY
EDITOR’S NOTE: The village contracts from time to time with Columbus Southern
Power Company for electrical service. Copies of the latest relevant legislation
may be obtained, at cost, from the Fiscal Officer.
   There are no sections in Chapter 1046. This chapter has been established to
provide a place for cross-references and for any future legislation.
Cross-reference:
   Electric fences, see §
660.12
Statutory reference:
   Contracts with municipal corporation for light, see R.C. § 4933.04
   Electric companies may manufacture and supply both electricity and gas, see
R.C. § 4933.02
   Free use of municipally owned public utilities, see R.C. § 743.27
   Legislative authority may erect or purchase electric works, see R.C. §
743.34
   Powers of electric light and power companies, see R.C. § 4933.13
TITLE SIX: OTHER PUBLIC SERVICES
CHAPTER 1060: GARBAGE AND RUBBISH COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
EDITOR’S NOTE: The village contracts annually for garbage and rubbish
collection and disposal service. Copies of the latest relevant legislation may
be obtained, at cost, from the Fiscal Officer.
   There are no sections in Chapter 1060. This chapter has been established to
provide a place for cross-references and any future legislation.
Cross-reference:
   Filthy accumulations, see §
660.04
   Littering from motor vehicles, see §
432.43
   Littering generally, see §
660.03
   Waste accumulation, see §
1272.04(c)
Statutory reference:
   Collection and disposal of garbage, see R.C. §§ 715.43, 717.01
   Employment of scavengers, see R.C. § 3707.39
CHAPTER 1062: MINERVA PARK LAKES AND PARK AREA
Section
1062.01   Ice skating and ice hockey.
1062.02   Fishing.
1062.03   Camping.
1062.04   Boating.
1062.05   Fires.
1062.06   Swimming and ice fishing.
1062.07   Duck and geese feeding area.
1062.08   Informational sign.
1062.99   Penalty.
Cross-reference:
   Damaging public property, see §§
642.05,
642.08 et seq.
   Disorderly conduct, see §
648.04
   Disturbing a lawful meeting, see §
648.05
   Feeding geese prohibited, see §
618.18
   Litter, see §
660.03
   Parks generally, see
Ch. 1064
Statutory reference:
   Land appropriation for parks, see R.C. §§ 715.21, 719.01
   Playgrounds, recreation centers, swimming pools, see R.C. §§ 755.12 et seq.
§ 1062.01 ICE SKATING AND ICE HOCKEY.
   Minerva Park Lakes shall be open to ice skaters and ice hockey whenever the
ice is determined by the village Emergency Medical Service (EMS) to be safe for
such use.
§ 1062.02 FISHING.
   (a)   Fishing is prohibited at all times in that portion of Minerva Park
Lakes lying north of Minerva Lake Road (the North Lake).
   (b)   Fishing in that portion of Minerva Park Lakes lying south of Minerva
Lakes Road (the South Lake) is permitted in designated areas only and is
prohibited, even in designated areas, between the hours of 9:30 p.m. and 6:00
a.m. of the following day, and then is only permitted between the hours of 6:00
a.m. and 9:30 p.m.
   (c)   Those areas of the Minerva Park Lakes where fishing is prohibited and
where fishing is permitted shall be as designated on the map attached to
original Ordinance 7-97, passed October 13, 1997, and incorporated herein by
reference. Signs shall be posted as necessary along the shoreline to adequately
establish fishing and non-fishing areas. Either the ordinance from which this
section derives (Ordinance 7-97) or the number of this section (§
1062.02 of the Codified Ordinances of Minerva Park) shall be listed on such
signs.
   (d)   The only two areas designated as “Fishing permitted between the hours
of 6:00 a.m. to 9:30 p.m.” shall be as follows:
      (1)   The shoreline east of the Community Building to west of the
northeast corner of the South Lake (this is approximately the point at which
the parking lot ends and the footpath and shoreline come within a few feet of
each other and the bank becomes quite steep); and
      (2)   South of the northeast corner of the South Lake up to, but not
including, the spillway.
   (e)   In all areas other than those set forth in division (d) hereof,
fishing shall be prohibited at all times.
(Ord. 7-97, passed 10-13-1997)
§ 1062.03 CAMPING.
   Camping on the shores of Minerva Park Lakes and the lands adjacent thereto
is prohibited at all times.
(Ord. 12-82, passed 11-8-1982)
§ 1062.04 BOATING.
   Boats with motors are prohibited on Minerva Park Lakes. Boats without motors
shall be permitted, provided that the state boating laws are observed. All
children under 18 years of age must wear U.S. Coast Guard-approved life
preservers at all times while in a boat and be accompanied by an adult and/or a
person over the age of 18. Boats shall not be operated on Minerva Park Lakes
during hours of darkness.
(Ord. 12-82, passed 11-8-1982)
§ 1062.05 FIRES.
   Brush or wood bonfires, open fires, cooking fires or appurtenances used in
cooking, in the vicinity of Minerva Park Lakes, or in any park area, are
prohibited unless approved by the Fire Chief.
(Ord. 12-82, passed 11-8-1982)
§ 1062.06 SWIMMING AND ICE FISHING.
   Swimming and ice fishing in Minerva Park Lakes are prohibited.
(Ord. 12-82, passed 11-8-1982)
§ 1062.07 DUCK AND GEESE FEEDING AREA.
   (a)   Feeding ducks and geese at the Minerva Park Lakes and park areas will
be limited to one designated area. Duck and geese feeding on the driveway,
parking area, footpath and other areas around the lakes will be strongly
discouraged.
   (b)   The one area where duck and geese feeding is encouraged is specified
on the map attached to original Resolution 97-27, passed November 10, 1997, and
is described as the flat wooded area between the shoreline of the Minerva Park
South Lake on the south side, the Community Building driveway on the west side,
the footpath in front of the parking area on the north side and, on the east
side, the point where the parking area ends and the footpath and the lake are
within a few feet of each other and the bank becomes steep.
   (c)   The intent of this section is to encourage residents and visitors to
feed ducks and geese where the natural waste caused by the fowl will be
absorbed into the ground and thus minimize any offensive or unsanitary
conditions. To convey this message, this area will be marked on the Minerva
Park Lakes informational sign as set forth in §
1062.08, and as part of other signs as needed.
(Res. 97-27, passed 11-10-1997)
§ 1062.08   INFORMATIONAL SIGN.
   A weather-resistant sign shall be posted near the parking lot of the South
Lake containing the following messages:
   (a)   A welcome to visitors;
   (b)   A brief history and picture (if possible) of the Minerva Lake
Amusement Center; and
   (c)   A brief warning to:
      (1)   Fish in designated areas only (as specified on the map attached to
original Ordinance 7-97, passed October 13, 1997);
      (2)   Feed ducks in designated areas only (as specified on the map
attached to original Resolution 97-27, passed November 10, 1997); and
      (3)   Pick up litter and keep the park area neat.
   (d)   Designated areas for fishing and duck feeding will be drawn on the
maps in such a way as to convey the location of such areas to the public.
(Res. 97-23, passed 11-13-1997)
§ 1062.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed each day during or on which a violation or noncompliance occurs or
continues.
(Ord. 12-82, passed 11-8-1982)
CHAPTER 1064: PARKS GENERALLY
Section
1064.01   Posting of “Closed At Dark” or “Closed At Dusk” signs; violations.
1064.02   Park swimming pool.
1064.99   Penalty.
Cross-reference:
   Damaging public property, see §§
642.05,
642.08 et seq.
   Disorderly conduct, see §
648.04
   Disturbing a lawful meeting, see §
648.05
   Litter, see §
660.03
   Minerva Park Lakes and park area, see
Ch. 1062
Statutory reference:
   Land appropriation for parks, see R.C. §§ 715.21, 719.01
   Playgrounds, recreation centers, swimming pools, see R.C. §§ 755.12 et seq.
§ 1064.01 POSTING OF “CLOSED AT DARK” OR “CLOSED AT DUSK” SIGNS; VIOLATIONS.
   (a)   The Mayor is hereby authorized to post “Closed At Dark” or “Closed At
Dusk” signs at parks as designated by Council.
   (b)   No person shall violate a “Closed At Dark” or a “Closed At Dusk” sign
posted under authority of division (a) hereof.
(Ord. 12-92, passed 9-14-1992)
§ 1064.02 PARK SWIMMING POOL.
   (a)   The Village of Minerva Park will assume the maintenance and operation
of the Minerva Park Swimming Pool located within the Village of Minerva Park,
Franklin County, State of Ohio.
   (b)   Steps for the transfer of responsibility will begin immediately and
will be completed by the opening of the pool on Saturday, May 27, 2006.
   (c)   Steps include but are not limited to:
      (1)   Transferring all funds, records and assets currently under the
control of the Minerva Park Pool Board to the Village of Minerva Park;
      (2)   Having the Fiscal Officer create a section of the Minerva Park
budget to allocate and track funds for the maintenance and operation of the
Minerva Park Swimming Pool;
      (3)   Creating seasonal staff positions of Pool Manager, Pool Assistant
Manager and Pool Life Guards within the village to operate the pool before,
during and after the swimming season;
      (4)   Creating an assistant maintenance worker position to help maintain
the pool as one of the duties; and
      (5)   Encouraging and supporting the members of the most recent Pool
Board and the Minerva Park Community Association to work together to create a
pool social committee in order to arrange for pool-related social and other
activities
   (d)   It is hereby noted that the Minerva Park Swimming Pool and Swim Club
has been an outstanding example of citizens working together for benefit of
their community. From the earliest vision of a small group of citizens raising
the money to build the pool through 40 plus years of countless citizens serving
on the Pool Board, the Minerva Park Swimming Pool exists because of the
commitment and hard work of Minerva Park citizens.
   (e)   The Village Mayor, Fiscal Officer and Solicitor are authorized to take
further actions consistent with this section that are needed to carry out the
intentions of this section for the maintenance and operation of the Minerva
Park Swimming Pool.
(Ord. 01-2006, passed 5-8-2006)
Editor’s note:
   Current rates for pool membership fees are available in the office of the
Village Fiscal Officer.
§ 1064.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed each day during or on which a violation or noncompliance occurs or
continues.
CHAPTER 1066: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
1066.01   Definitions.
1066.02   Use of automatic dialing devices.
1066.03   Equipment standards; secondary power source; automatic cutoffs.
1066.04   False alarms; notice to certify equipment; repairs and adjustments.
1066.05   Liability of the village.
1066.06   Exemptions.
1066.99   Penalty.
Cross-reference:
   False alarms, see §§
648.07,
648.08
   Theft generally, see §§
672.01 et seq.
   Trespass, see §§
642.10,
642.11,
672.08
§ 1066.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter:
   (a)   “Alarm system.” Any assembly of equipment and devices which signals,
so as to be seen or heard outside the protected building or space, the presence
of fire, smoke, robbery, burglary, vandalism or unauthorized intrusion, and
includes an interconnected alarm system, as hereinafter defined.
   (b)   “Appropriate authority.” The Chief of Police of the village.
   (c)   “Automatic dialing device.” A device which is interconnected to a
telephone line and is programmed to select a predetermined telephone number and
transmit by voice, message or code signal an emergency message indicating a
need for an emergency response.
   (d)   “False alarm.” An alarm signal or message initiated and transmitted,
either automatically or manually through an alarm system, to the village,
eliciting a response by police or fire services when fire, smoke, robbery,
burglary, vandalism or unauthorized intrusion does not, in fact, exist. “False
alarm” does not include an alarm signal caused by hurricanes, tornadoes,
thunderstorms or other catastrophic acts of God not reasonably subject to
control by the alarm manufacturer, installer or owner.
   (e)   “Interconnected alarm system.” An alarm system which directly or
indirectly, automatically or manually, uses a telephone line or cable line to
transmit an alarm or message upon the activation of the alarm system.
   (f)   “Local alarm system.” An alarm system that, when activated, only
sounds a horn, bell, buzzer or other type of audible or visible alarm that is
designed to be audible or visible beyond the premises being served, but which
does not result in the transmission of a signal to any other location.
(Ord. 2-93, passed 10-11-1993)
§ 1066.02 USE OF AUTOMATIC DIALING DEVICES.
   In connection with the use of automatic dialing devices, no person shall use
or cause to be used any telephone that selects any telephone line allocated by
the telephone company to the village or any of its departments or divisions.
(Ord. 2-93, passed 10-11-1993)
§ 1066.03 EQUIPMENT STANDARDS; SECONDARY POWER SOURCE; AUTOMATIC CUTOFFS.
   (a)   All equipment used in the installation of alarm systems shall meet the
applicable standards of Underwriters’ Laboratories of the United States,
Factory Mutual, the National Fire Protection Association or any other
recognized industry standard.
   (b)   The owner or installer may be required to submit a letter or
certificate providing evidence of the reliability and suitability of the
equipment to be installed.
   (c)   All alarm systems shall be equipped with a secondary power source
which shall hold the alarm in readiness for a minimum of 120 minutes during a
power interruption.
   (d)   An audible alarm or automatic dialer alarm system designed to detect
an intrusion shall have an automatic cutoff which discontinues the alarm signal
within 15 minutes after activation.
(Ord. 2-93, passed 10-11-1993)
§ 1066.04 FALSE ALARMS; NOTICE TO CERTIFY EQUIPMENT; REPAIRS AND ADJUSTMENTS.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly allow the transmission of a false alarm in
the village.
   (b)   Each false alarm response shall constitute a separate false alarm,
whether a police or fire response is elicited. Any response to a false alarm to
a village address by another agency, in lieu of response by village agencies,
as a result of a mutual aid or automatic response agreement, shall constitute a
false alarm.
   (c)   Under this chapter, all residences or businesses are subject to a
written notice after three false alarms have originated from the premises
within a six-month period. The written notice from the appropriate authority or
a designated representative shall cite the specific false alarm history. The
written notice, addressed to the owner of the premises, or, in the case of a
rented or leased unit, to the resident thereof, shall require the owner to
produce a certificate or letter from a qualified source, as set forth in §
1066.03(a), within 30 days of the receipt of such notice, indicating that the
system is in proper working condition. The owner and/or occupant of the
residence or business shall also be subject to §
1066.99.
   (d)   The appropriate authority may require that repairs or adjustments to
the system be made whenever he or she has determined that such repairs or
adjustments are necessary to assure proper operation thereof.
(Ord. 2-93, passed 10-11-1993)
§ 1066.05 LIABILITY OF THE VILLAGE.
    The installation of interconnected alarm systems in conjunction with this
chapter shall not constitute acceptance by the village or any of its employees
of any liability to maintain any equipment, to answer alarms or to do anything
in connection therewith.
(Ord. 2-93, passed 10-11-1993)
§ 1066.06 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter are not applicable to home smoke detectors
not intended to be heard outside the dwelling unit, nor to local alarm systems
or audible alarms affixed to structures, automobiles, boats, boat trailers,
house trailers and recreation vehicles or other motor vehicles.
(Ord. 2-93, passed 10-11-1993)
§ 1066.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   Whoever violates §§
1066.02 or
1066.03 is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (b)   Whoever violates §
1066.04 is guilty of a minor misdemeanor if more than three false alarms are
transmitted within a six-month period but less than nine are transmitted within
a calendar year. If nine or more false alarms are transmitted in any calendar
year, such person shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
CHAPTER 1068: JOINT TOWNSHIP HOSPITAL DISTRICT
Section
1068.01   Establishment of Board.
1068.02   Establishment of District.
1068.03   Organization of Board.
1068.04   Village representation on Board; appointments; terms of office.
Statutory reference:
   Appropriation of property for hospitals, see R.C. § 719.01
   Joint hospital districts, see R.C. §§ 513.07 to 513.18, 749.16 to 749.18
   Management of village hospital, see R.C. § 735.27
   Municipal hospitals, see R.C. §§ 749.01 et seq.
   Township hospitals, see R.C. §§ 513.01 et seq.
§ 1068.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF BOARD.
   Council hereby joins with Blendon Township and the City of Westerville in
the formation and establishment of a Joint Township District Hospital Board for
the purpose of providing hospital facilities under the provisions of R.C. §§
513.07 et seq., and Council also joins with Genoa Township in the formation and
establishment of the Board if Genoa Township adopts, no later than March 31,
1982, a resolution to join in the formation and establishment of the District.
If Genoa Township does not so act, Genoa Township shall not be a part of the
District.
(Ord. 2-82, passed 3-22-1982)
§ 1068.02 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICT.
   Blendon Township, excluding that portion of the Township within the
corporate limits of the village, and the City of Westerville shall constitute a
Joint Township Hospital District with the village constituting a part of such
District. However, if Genoa Township, no later than March 31, 1982, adopts a
resolution to join in the establishment of the District, then Genoa Township
shall also constitute a part of the District.
(Ord. 2-82, passed 3-22-1982)
§ 1068.03 ORGANIZATION OF BOARD.
   The Joint Township District Hospital Board shall organize within 30 days
after the latest of the favorable vote of the Board of Township Trustees of
Blendon Township, the Council of the City of Westerville, the Village Council
or the Board of Township Trustees of Genoa Township; provided, however, that
Genoa Township shall be a part of the District and participate in the
organization of the Board only if its resolution is adopted no later than March
31, 1982. If such resolution by Genoa Township is not so adopted, then the
organization of the Board shall occur within 30 days after the latest favorable
vote of the aforesaid political subdivisions.
(Ord. 2-82, passed 3-22-1982)
§ 1068.04 VILLAGE REPRESENTATION ON BOARD; APPOINTMENTS; TERMS OF OFFICE.
   As required by R.C. § 513.071, the village shall be represented on the Joint
Township District Hospital Board by the Mayor and by two Council members who
shall be appointed by Council to serve such terms as are specified by Council
or until their successors are appointed.
(Ord. 2-82, passed 3-22-1982)
CHAPTER 1070: COMMUNITY BUILDING
Section
1070.01   Smoking prohibited; exception.
Cross-reference:
   Possession of municipal property, see §
642.02
   Smoking in places of public assembly, see §
660.13
   Unauthorized use of property, see §
642.03
Statutory reference:
   Recreation facilities, see R.C. §§ 755.12 et seq.
§ 1070.01 SMOKING PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   (a)   The Community Building of the Village of Minerva Park shall be a
smoke-free environment, with the exception of the emergency vehicle parking
bay.
   (b)   Signs stating “Smoke Free Area” shall be posted in order to inform
staff, volunteers and visitors that the Community Building is a smoke-free
environment. A sign shall be posted in the emergency vehicle parking bay that
states “Smoking is permitted in this area only. All other areas of the
Community Building are smoke free. Thank you.”
(Res. 96-2, passed 1-8-1996)
PART TWELVE: PLANNING AND ZONING CODE
   TITLE TWO - PLANNING
      
CHAP. 1202. PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
   TITLE FOUR - SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
CHAP. 1210. GENERAL PROVISIONS AND DEFINITIONS
      
CHAP. 1212. ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY
      
CHAP. 1214. PRELIMINARY PLATS
      
CHAP. 1216. FINAL PLATS
      
CHAP. 1218. DESIGN STANDARDS
      
CHAP. 1220. IMPROVEMENTS
   TITLE SIX - ZONING
      
CHAP. 1230. GENERAL PROVISIONS AND DEFINITIONS
      
CHAP. 1232. ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY
      
CHAP. 1234. BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
      
CHAP. 1236. AMENDMENTS
      
CHAP. 1238. DISTRICTS GENERALLY AND ZONING DISTRICT MAP
      
CHAP. 1240. RURAL DISTRICT
      
CHAP. 1242. RESTRICTED SUBURBAN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
      
CHAP. 1244. LIMITED SUBURBAN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
      
CHAP. 1246. R-3 SUBURBAN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
      
CHAP. 1248. R-4 SUBURBAN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
      
CHAP. 1250. TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
      
CHAP. 1252. URBAN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
      
CHAP. 1253. PLANNED RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
      
CHAP. 1254. SUBURBAN OFFICE AND INSTITUTIONAL DISTRICT
      
CHAP. 1256. NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
      
CHAP. 1258. COMMUNITY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
      
CHAP. 1259. PLANNED COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
      
CHAP. 1260. CENTRAL COMMUNITY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
      
CHAP. 1262. CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
      
CHAP. 1264. RESTRICTED INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
      
CHAP. 1266. LIMITED INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
      
CHAP. 1267. PLANNED INDUSTRIAL PARK DISTRICT
      
CHAP. 1268. GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
      
CHAP. 1270. OFFICE, LABORATORY AND RESEARCH DISTRICT
      
CHAP. 1272. GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
      
CHAP. 1274. SPECIAL PERMITS
      
CHAP. 1276. SPECIAL DISTRICTS
      
CHAP. 1278. LANDSCAPING
      
CHAP. 1280. SIGNS
      
CHAP. 1282. OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
      
CHAP. 1284. ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS
      
CHAP. 1290. CHICKENS, DUCKS, AND RABBITS
      
APPENDIX A DRIVEWAY AND INTERSECTION SIGHT TRIANGLES
      
APPENDIX B VEHICLE OVERHANG
      
APPENDIX C RECOMMENDED TREES FOR THE VILLAGE OF MINERVA PARK
TITLE TWO: PLANNING
CHAPTER 1202: PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
Section
1202.01   Membership; terms of office; compensation; vacancies.
1202.02   Meetings; officers; absences; quorum.
1202.03   Powers.
1202.04   Duties.
1202.05   Records.
1202.06   Submittal of permit applications and related documents; issuance of
permits; appeals.
1202.07   Authority rezoning measures.
Statutory reference:
   Establishment, see R.C. § 713.01
   Plat approval required, see R.C. § 711.09
   Powers and duties, see R.C. §§ 713.02, 713.06
§ 1202.01 MEMBERSHIP; TERMS OF OFFICE; COMPENSATION; VACANCIES.
   (a)   The Village Planning and Zoning Commission shall consist of five
members, as follows: the Mayor, one member of the legislative authority and
citizens-at-large. All members shall be qualified electors of the village.
   (b)   Each citizen-at-large appointment by the Mayor, with the advice and
consent of Council, shall be for a term of two years, beginning on January 1
and ending on December 31 of the second year. If any at-large member continues
to serve with an expired term, and the Mayor has not re-appointed any citizen
by January 31 of the beginning of the term, then that member will continue to
serve the remaining two-year term by default.
   (c)   In order for the existing terms of citizen-at-large appointments to
maintain staggered expirations, the Mayor shall appoint or confirm in office,
with the advice and consent of Council, three interim appointments, one each to
expire on December 31, 1992, December 31, 1993 and December 31, 1994.
   (d)   All members shall serve without compensation. Members may hold any
other public office and may serve as a member of a county or regional planning
commission.
   (e)   Any vacancy created by the resignation or removal of a citizen member
shall be filled by appointment by the Mayor, with the advice and consent of
Council, for the unexpired portion of the term in which the vacancy exists.
   (f)   The representative from Council shall be elected by Council, and the
term of his or her service on the Commission shall coincide with his or her
term in office.
   (g)   Any at-large member may be removed from the Commission by a two-thirds
majority vote of Council.
   (h)   The Village Planning and Zoning Commission may also consist of three
additional, advisory, non-voting, citizen-at-large members. These additional
members shall also be qualified electors of the village.
(Ord. 5-91, passed 6-10-1991; Ord. 1-94, passed 5-9-1994; Ord. 06-2020, passed
5-11-2020; Ord. 02-2021, passed 2-8-2021)
§ 1202.02 MEETINGS; OFFICERS; ABSENCES; QUORUM.
   (a)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall meet not less than once each
quarter during each calendar year and at such other times as matter shall be
referred to it for review, approval or disapproval.
   (b)   At the first meeting of each calendar year, the Commission shall elect
a Chairperson and a Vice Chairperson by a majority vote of all members. The
Chairperson and Vice Chairperson shall serve in that capacity for one year.
   (c)   The Mayor shall establish the date, time and place of the first
meeting of each calendar year and shall preside at such meeting until a
Chairperson and a Vice Chairperson are elected. The first meeting of each
calendar year shall be held not later than 30 days after the start of the
calendar year, with the exception of the first meeting of 1986.
   (d)   Any appointed member absent from four consecutive meetings of the
Commission shall be removed from membership on the Commission by a majority of
the Commission members. The vacancy so created shall be filled by appointment
of the Mayor, with the advice and consent of Council, for the unexpired portion
of the term in which the vacancy exists.
   (e)   A majority of the Commission shall constitute a quorum for the
official transaction of business. (Ord. 14-85, passed 11-11-1985)
§ 1202.03 POWERS.
   The powers of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall be those granted by
R.C. §§ 713.01, 713.27 and 735.15, as well as other sections of the Ohio
Revised Code and of the Constitution of the State of Ohio, now in effect or
which may hereafter be passed and effective, relating to the Commission, as
well as any ordinance passed by Council relating to the Zoning Commission.
(Ord. 14-85, passed 11-11-1985)
§ 1202.04 DUTIES.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall:
   (a)   Conduct studies and surveys relative to overall planning for the
growth, development, redevelopment, rehabilitation and renewal of the village,
prepare such plans, reports and maps as are required to support their findings,
and make such recommendations to Council as it feels are in the best interests
of the village;
   (b)   Continuously review and report to Council its recommendations
concerning the village’s capital improvement programs and the village’s
subdivision, platting and zoning ordinances and regulations;
   (c)   Cooperate with other governmental or private planning agencies,
securing such studies, surveys and reports prepared by such agencies to ensure
maximum benefits for the village;
   (d)   Review and approve or disapprove all plans to change, relocate, widen,
extend or vacate streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds, recreation areas and
other public ways and places, including such drawings and data required to be
submitted with the application. The Commission is hereby empowered to request
and to require such additional data and drawings as are deemed necessary to
render a decision on the application submitted;
   (e)   Review all requests for rezoning or variances from existing zoning or
building regulations. Such applications and the Commission’s recommendations
shall be forwarded to Council for final approval or disapproval; and
   (f)   Establish such rules, regulations and procedures as are necessary to
ensure the prompt and orderly processing of all matters brought before it,
including coordination with the Village Fiscal Officer, Engineer, Building
Inspector and such other officials as shall be deemed necessary.
(Ord. 14-85, passed 11-11-1985; Ord. 4-89, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. 16-2017,
passed 6-19-2017)
§ 1202.05 RECORDS.
   The Chairperson of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall keep or cause to
be kept, in the Municipal Building, a complete record of all meetings of the
Commission and a detailed record of all transactions and the disposition of
matters to come before the Commission. Said records shall be compiled in report
form and signed by the Chairperson of the Commission, and copies thereof shall
be provided to the Mayor, members of Council and the Building Inspector within
30 days following each meeting.
(Ord. 14-85, passed 11-11-1985; Ord. 9-89, passed 10-9-1989)
§ 1202.06 SUBMITTAL OF PERMIT APPLICATIONS AND RELATED DOCUMENTS; ISSUANCE OF
PERMITS; APPEALS.
   (a)   All applications for permits to construct, remodel, improve, alter,
relocate, extend or vacate streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds, recreation
areas and other public ways and places, required by ordinance or resolution of
the village, now in effect or which may hereafter be passed and effective,
shall be submitted to the Planning and Zoning Commission for its review and
approval or disapproval.
   (b)   All applications for permits that require a rezoning or variance
action from an existing zoning or building ordinance or regulation shall be
held in abeyance pending the submission of a request for such rezoning or
variance by the applicant and action taken thereon. The Commission shall
forward such applications and requests, with its recommendations thereon, to
Council for final approval or disapproval within 60 days of the receipt of the
request for rezoning or variance.
   (c)   All matters pertaining to building permits referred to the Commission
shall have action taken upon them within 60 days from the date of referral,
except those permits which require rezoning or variance actions. The time
period established may be extended by authorization of Council or by mutual
agreement between the Commission and the applicant.
   (d)   Building permit applications involving new construction and repair,
alteration or additions to existing buildings and structures shall be reviewed
and approved by the Commission before the Building Inspector has reviewed the
plans, drawings and related documents and has indicated that such plans,
drawings and related documents meet all the requirements of the Building and
Housing Code and are therefore approved.
   (e)   Building permits shall be issued by the Planning and Zoning Clerk.
Permits shall be issued only after receipt of a written notification of
approval of the application for the permit by the Commission and only after the
permit has been signed by the Mayor.
   (f)   Applicants for building permits may appeal the decisions of the
Commission to Council. Such appeals must be filed with the Fiscal Officer not
later than 30 days from the date of the notification to the applicant of the
decision of the Commission.
(Ord. 16-2017, passed 6-19-2017; Ord. 24-2017, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 1202.07 AUTHORITY REZONING MEASURES.
   (a)   Before any zoning ordinance, resolution or amendment thereto,
authorized by R.C. §§ 713.07 to 713.11, inclusive, may be passed, Council shall
hold a public hearing thereon and shall give at least 30 days’ notice of the
time, place and purpose of such meeting, in accordance with R.C. § 713.12.
   (b)   The Planning and Zoning Commission is hereby authorized to hold such
public hearings as are necessary before any ordinance, resolution or amendment
thereto, authorized by R.C. §§ 713.07 to 713.11, inclusive, being considered by
the Commission, is forwarded to Council with the recommendations of the
Commission. Such public hearings shall be processed in accordance with R.C. §
713.12. Public hearings held by the Commission shall not be substituted for
required public hearings on the part of Council.
   (c)   Each ordinance, resolution or regulation establishing, amending,
revising, changing or repealing a zoning classification, district, use or
regulation shall be referred to the Commission for approval, disapproval or
recommendation, except any ordinance, resolution or regulation which the
Commission has recommended and forwarded to Council. Within 60 days of such
referral, the Commission shall cause such ordinance, resolution or regulation
to be returned to the Fiscal Officer, together with the written recommendations
of the Commission, concurred in by a majority of the Commission. If the
Commission should fail to make a recommendation within 60 days, Council may act
thereon as if it had received a recommendation of approval for such ordinance,
resolution or regulation.
   (d)   No ordinance, resolution or regulation which violates, differs from or
departs from the plan or report submitted by the Commission shall take effect,
unless passed and approved by not less than three- fourths of the membership of
Council.
   (e)   No ordinance, resolution or regulation which is in accordance with
recommendations, plans or reports submitted by the Commission shall be deemed
to pass or take effect without concurrence of at least a majority of the
members elected to Council.
(Ord. 14-85, passed 11-11-1985; Ord. 16-2017, passed 6-19-2017)
TITLE FOUR: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1210: GENERAL PROVISIONS AND DEFINITIONS
Section
1210.01   Jurisdiction.
1210.02   Definitions.
1210.03   Amendments.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to adopt subdivision regulations, see R.C. § 711.101
   Plat and subdivision defined, see R.C. § 711.001
   Revision of plats, see R.C. §§ 711.28 et seq.
   Vacating plats, see R.C. §§ 711.17 et seq.
   Violation of regulations, see R.C. § 711.102
§ 1210.01 JURISDICTION.
   The rules and regulations governing plats and the subdivision of land
contained herein shall apply within the corporate limits of the village.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1210.02 DEFINITIONS.
   As used or found in these subdivision regulations:
   (a)   “Average annual flood.” A flood equal to the mean of discharges of all
the maximum annual floods during the period of record.
   (b)   “Average daily traffic (ADT).”
      (1)   The estimated daily average number of vehicular movements over the
paved portions of a street or section thereof. The ADT for streets associated
with planned unit developments shall be determined on the following basis:
 
Housing Type           ADT (per dwelling unit)
Elevator apartment     4.0
Garden apartment       5.0
Group or townhouse     6.0
Single-family detached 7.0
 
      (2)   The ADT for through streets shall be considered individually.
   (c)   “Building setback line.” A line established in the Zoning Code,
parallel with a street, to give the public access to light and air by requiring
that structures be set back a minimum fixed distance from the front lot line.
   (d)   “Channel.” A natural or artificial watercourse, with a definite bed
and banks to confine water, which continuously or periodically contains moving
water or which forms a connecting link between two bodies of water.
   (e)   “Channel flow.” The water flowing within the limits of a channel.
   (f)   “Commission.” The Planning and Zoning Commission of the village.
   (g)   “County Engineer.” The County Engineer of Franklin County.
   (h)   “Developer.” Any person who acts in his or her own behalf or as the
agent of an owner of property and engages in the alteration of land or
vegetation in preparation for or in the undertaking of a construction activity.
   (i)   “Development.” Any activity which results in an alteration of either
land or vegetation.
   (j)   “Ditch.” An open channel, either dug or natural, used for the purpose
of drainage or irrigation, with intermittent flow. (See “drainageway,” “grassed
waterway” and “stream.”)
   (k)   “Drainageway.” A route or course along which water moves or may move
to drain an area.
   (l)   “Driveway.” A private road, giving access from a public way to a
detached single-family dwelling on abutting ground or to a group of multi-
family or commercial buildings, which is not dedicated to the village and for
the maintenance of which the village shall be responsible, and which, for those
reasons, is not subject to these subdivision regulations.
   (m)   “Easement.” A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of land
for a specific purpose.
   (n)   “Emergency flow way.” The flow routes and drainageways necessary to
convey a 100-year storm.
   (o)   “Engineer.” The Village Engineer.
   (p)   “Final plat.” The map of all or a portion of a subdivision which is
submitted to the Planning and Zoning Commission for action.
   (q)   “Flood.” The temporary inundation of any land not normally covered by
water, due to heavy rainfall or runoff or due to a temporary rise in the level
of rivers, streams, watercourses or lakes.
   (r)   “Floodway.” The channel of a watercourse and those portions of the
adjoining floodplain which are used to convey a regional flood.
   (s)   “Grassed waterway.” A broad and shallow natural course or constructed
channel, covered with erosion-resistant grasses or similar herbaceous cover,
which is used to conduct surface water.
   (t)   “Hydrologic and hydraulic study.” An engineering study to determine
the rate, volume and distribution of storm runoff and its collection, storage
and conveyance.
   (u)   “Improvement.” Any addition to the natural state of land which
increases its value or utility, including buildings, street pavements with or
without curbs and gutters, sidewalks, crosswalks, water mains, sanitary sewers,
storm sewers, street trees, street lighting, public utilities and other
appropriate items.
   (v)   “Lot.” A portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land intended as
a unit for transfer of ownership or for building development, together with the
required open spaces, and having frontage on a public or private street.
   (w)   “Maximum probable flood.” The largest flood discharge believed
possible, considering meteorologic conditions and snow cover on the watershed.
   (x)   “Park plan.” The plan of parks, playgrounds or other open public
grounds adopted by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (y)   “Parking space, off-street.” An area adequate for parking a motor
vehicle with room for opening doors on both sides, together with property-
related access to a public street or alley and maneuvering room, but located
totally outside of any street or alley right-of-way.
   (z)   “Planned unit development.” An area of land in which a variety of
housing types and/or related commercial and industrial facilities are clustered
in an imaginative, preplanned fashion to permit the development of the land in
an orderly, coordinated and comprehensive manner by preserving the natural
quality and beauty of the land and providing a more livable housing
environment. The “planned unit development” is for the purpose of conserving
land through a more efficient allocation of private lots, multi-family dwelling
units, common grounds and nonresidential uses, promoting greater efficiency in
providing public and utility services and securing the benefits of new
techniques of community development and renewal. Within a planned unit
residential development district or zone, Zoning Code regulations need not be
uniform, but may vary in order to promote the public health, safety and morals
and the other purposes, as aforesaid. Adopted regulations may require
developers to obtain conditional or final certification of compliance with the
Zoning Code at specified stages of development. “Planned unit development”
includes a development which is planned to integrate residential use with
collateral uses, and in which lot size, setback lines, yard areas and dwelling
types may be varied and modified to achieve particular design objectives and to
make provisions for open spaces, common areas, utilities, public improvements
and collateral nonresidential uses.
   (aa)   “Plat.” A map of a tract or parcel of land made by a licensed land
surveyor.
   (bb)   “Preliminary plat.” The drawing indicating the proposed layout of a
subdivision, which drawing is submitted to the Planning and Zoning Commission
and which, if approved, authorizes preparation of the final plat.
   (cc)   “Regional flood.” The term applied to the 100-year flood in
floodplain information reports. The 100-year flood has a 1% probability of
being equaled or exceeded in a period of 100 years.
   (dd)   “Right-of-way.” A strip of land lying between the property lines of a
street, parkway, alley or easement, dedicated or otherwise acquired for use by
the public.
   (ee)   “Roadway.” The portion of a street available for vehicular traffic.
   (ff)   “Runoff.” The portion of rainfall, melted snow or irrigation water
that flows across the ground surface and eventually is returned to streams.
      (1)   “Accelerated runoff.” An increased runoff due to a less permeable
surface area caused primarily by urbanization.
      (2)   “Peak rate of runoff.” The maximum rate of runoff for any storm.
      (3)   “Runoff volume.” The total quantity or volume of runoff during a
specified time period. “Runoff volume” may be expressed in acre-feet, in
inches-depth of the drainage area or in other units of volume.
   (gg)   “Sidewalk.” A paved area intended principally for the use of
pedestrians.
   (hh)   “Storage.” The control, retention or detention of runoff.
      (1)   “Detention storage.” Storm runoff collected and stored for a short
period of time and then released at a controlled rate (dry pond).
      (2)   “Retention storage.” Storm runoff collected and stored for a short
period of time and then released at a controlled rate, leaving in the facility
a minimum pool of water. This facility is often associated with water-related
recreational or aesthetic uses (wet pond).
   (ii)   “Storage facility.” Any facility used to store, retain or detain
storm runoff, which shall include, but not be limited to, retention and
detention storage facilities, rooftop or parking lot ponds, basins, depressions
and pools.
   (jj)   “Storm drainage system.” The surface and subsurface system for the
removal of water from the land, including both the natural elements of streams,
gullies, ravines, marshes, swales and ponds, whether of an intermittent or
continuous nature, and human-made elements, which include conduits and
appurtenant features, culverts, ditches, channels, storage facilities, streets
and the storm sewer system.
      (1)   “Initial drainage system.” That part of a storm drainage system
which is used regularly for collecting, transporting and disposing of storm
runoff, snow melt and miscellaneous minor flows. The capacity of the “initial
drainage system” should be equal to the maximum rate of runoff to be expected
from a designated storm which may have a frequency of occurrence of once in
five years. The “initial drainage system” is also termed the “convenience
system,” the “minor system” or the “storm sewer system” and may include
features ranging from curbs and gutters to storm sewer pipes and open
drainageways.
      (2)   “Major drainage system.” That storm drainage system which carries
the runoff from a storm having a frequency of occurrence of once in 100 years.
The “major drainage system” will function whether or not improvements are
situated wisely in respect to it. The “major drainage system” is also termed
the “emergency flow way” and usually includes many features such as streets,
ravines and major drainage channels. Storm sewer systems may reduce the flow in
many parts of the major drainage system by storing and transporting water
underground.
   (kk)   “Storm frequency.” The average period of time in which a storm of a
given duration and intensity can be expected to be equalled or exceeded.
   (ll)   “Stormwater Design Manual.” The technical design manual prepared by
the Stormwater Management Advisory Committee of the Mid-Ohio Regional Planning
Commission, as adopted by the village.
   (mm)   “Stream.” A course of running water usually flowing in a particular
direction in a definite channel and discharging into some other stream or body
of water.
   (nn)   “Street.” Any avenue, boulevard, road, lane or parkway for vehicular
traffic shown upon a plat duly approved, filed and recorded in the office of
the County Recorder, including the land within the right-of-way, whether
improved or unimproved. Streets shall be classified as follows:
      (1)   “Arterial street.” A street which carries the vehicular traffic of
a state or federal highway route, or a highway primarily for through traffic,
carrying heavy loads and large volumes of traffic, usually on a continuous
route.
      (2)   “Boulevard.” A divided street which carries large or small amounts
of vehicular traffic, depending upon parking regulations and lot access,
intended to serve as a collector, local or private street.
      (3)   “Collector street.” A street which carries or is expected to carry
large amounts of vehicular traffic, usually not of origin or destination
primarily in the properties abutting upon the street, intended to serve and to
provide access to neighborhoods or subneighborhoods. “Collector streets” carry
traffic from the local streets to the arterial street system, including the
principal entrance and circulation routes within residential subdivisions.
      (4)   “Cul-de-sac.” A short, local street having only one end open for
motor vehicular traffic and the other end terminated by a vehicular turnaround.
      (5)   “Local street.” A street which carries vehicular traffic usually
originating or ending in the properties abutting the street.
      (6)   “Minor street.” A short street, sometimes referred to as a “place”
or “lane,” the use of which is subject to approval by the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
      (7)   “Private street.” A strip of privately owned land providing access
to abutting properties. “Private streets” shall be so indicated on the plat.
Improvements of “private streets” shall conform to the minimum street standards
and street sections contained in these subdivision regulations. In PUD- zoned
areas, private driveways and parking areas within commercial, industrial and
multi-family areas shall not be construed to mean “private streets.”
      (8)   “Service road.” A street that is parallel to a limited access
highway and that affords abutting property owners access to such highway at
permitted points, the use of which is subject to Planning and Zoning Commission
approval.
   (oo)   “Subdivision.” The division of any parcel of land, shown as a unit or
as contiguous units on the last preceding tax roll, into two or more parcels,
sites or lots, any one of which is less than five acres, for the purpose,
whether immediate or future, of transfer of ownership; provided, however, that
the division or partition of land into parcels of more than five acres, not
involving any new streets or easements of access, and the sale or exchange of
parcels between adjoining lot owners, where such sale or exchange does not
create additional sites and where the lots resulting are not reduced below
minimum sizes required by law, shall be exempted. “Subdivision” also means the
improvement of one or more parcels of land for residential, commercial or
industrial structures or groups of structures involving the division or
allocation of land for the opening, widening or extension of any street or
streets, except private streets serving industrial structures, and the division
or allocation of land as open spaces for common use by owners, occupants or
leaseholders or as easements for the extension and maintenance of public sewer,
water, storm drainage or other public facilities.
   (pp)   “Subdivision regulations.” Ordinance 5-89, passed May 8, 1989, as
amended, codified herein as Title Four of Part Twelve of these codified
ordinances.
   (qq)   “Thoroughfare Plan.” The comprehensive plan adopted by the Planning
and Zoning Commission indicating the general location recommended for arterial,
collector and local streets within the corporate limits of the village and/or
unincorporated areas within three miles thereof.
   (rr)   “Walkway.” Either a private or public right-of-way designated for
pedestrian, bicycle or other forms of traffic.
   (ss)   “Watercourse.” A channel in which a flow of water occurs either
continuously or intermittently in a definite direction. “Watercourse” applies
to either natural or artificially constructed channels.
   (tt)   “Zoning.” The regulation and limitation, by districts, of the height,
bulk and location, including the percentage of lot occupancy, building setback
lines and the area and dimensions of yards, courts and other open spaces, and
the uses of buildings and other structures and of the premises in such
districts.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1210.03 AMENDMENTS.
   Council may, by ordinance, after a public hearing, amend, supplement or
change these subdivision regulations. The proposed amendment or amendments
shall be on file in the office of the Fiscal Officer for public examination for
15 days prior to the hearing.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
CHAPTER 1212: ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY
Section
1212.01   Plat approval required.
1212.02   Restriction on issuance of building or repair permits.
1212.03   Restriction on public improvements.
1212.04   Conflict of interest of Village Engineer.
1212.05   Variances.
1212.99   Penalty.
Cross-reference:
   Authority of Council, see §
1210.03 
   Planning and Zoning Commission, see
Ch. 1202 
Statutory reference:
   Approval or rejection; rules to govern plats, see R.C. § 711.05
   Transfer of land before recording; forfeiture, see R.C. § 711.13
   Violations of regulations, see R.C. § 711.102
§ 1212.01 PLAT APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   No plat of any subdivision shall be entitled to be recorded in the County
Recorder’s office or to have any validity until it has been approved in the
manner prescribed in these subdivision regulations.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1212.02 RESTRICTION ON ISSUANCE OF BUILDING OR REPAIR PERMITS.
   No building or repair permit shall be issued for any structure located on a
lot in any subdivision plat which has been prepared after the date of the
adoption of these subdivision regulations and which has not been approved in
accordance with the provisions of these regulations.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1212.03 RESTRICTION ON PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   Council shall not permit any public improvement, over which it has any
control, to be made, or permit any money to be expended for improvements, in
any area that has been subdivided or upon any street that has been platted,
after the date of the adoption of these subdivision regulations, unless such
subdivision or street has been approved in accordance with the provisions of
these regulations.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1212.04 CONFLICT OF INTEREST OF VILLAGE ENGINEER.
   Whenever a plat for a subdivision is offered on behalf of an owner of real
estate and the engineer and surveyor for the owner who is preparing the plat is
the same person as the Village Engineer, the village shall employ a different
engineer to examine or review such plat and to take action on behalf of the
village with respect to such plat.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1212.05 VARIANCES.
   Whenever the strict enforcement of these subdivision regulations would
entail unusual, real and substantial difficulties or hardships, and where the
overall design relationships can be justified, the Planning and Zoning
Commission and Council may vary or modify the terms in such a way that the
subdivider is allowed to plan and develop his or her property, record a plat of
the same and make necessary improvements thereto without unjust difficulties
and hardships, if, at the same time, the public interests of the village are
fully protected and the general intent and purpose of these subdivision
regulations are preserved.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1212.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates or fails to comply with, or permits or causes any person in
his or her employ to violate or fail to comply with, any provision of these
subdivision regulations shall be subject to a fine of not more than $50 for
each and every offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day
during or on which a violation or noncompliance occurs or continues.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
CHAPTER 1214: PRELIMINARY PLATS
Section
1214.01   Consultation.
1214.02   Filing.
1214.03   Filing fee.
1214.04   Contents.
1214.05   Minimum dimensions.
1214.06   Approval by Planning and Zoning Commission.
1214.07   Disapproval by Planning and Zoning Commission; applicability.
1214.08   Approval by Council.
Statutory reference:
   Original plats, see R.C. §§ 711.01 et seq.
   Revision of plats, see R.C. §§ 711.28 et seq.
   Vacating plats, see R.C. §§ 711.17 et seq.
§ 1214.01 CONSULTATION.
   Before preparing and submitting a preliminary plat to the Planning and
Zoning Commission, the subdivider or his or her engineer shall consult with the
Commission, while the plat is in sketch form, to ascertain the location of
proposed streets, parkways, parks, playgrounds, school sites and other planned
developments, to acquaint himself or herself with the Commission’s requirements
and to familiarize himself or herself with the comprehensive plan, the
Thoroughfare Plan, the Parks and Open Space Plan, the Zoning Code and the
drainage, sewerage and water systems of the village.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1214.02 FILING.
   The subdivider shall prepare a preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision,
which shall conform to the requirements of this chapter, and shall file with
the Fiscal Officer an application in writing for the approval of such plat,
accompanied by eight black-line or blue-line prints, accurately drawn to a
scale of not less than 100 feet to the inch on a sheet or sheets not larger
than 24 inches by 36 inches, at least ten working days prior to the meeting of
the Planning and Zoning Commission at which action is desired.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1214.03 FILING FEE.
   (a)   Upon filing a preliminary plat for a subdivision, the subdivider shall
pay a preliminary plat fee to the Village of Minerva Park. Such fee shall be
applicable as the land subdivision permit fee required by these subdivision
regulations. The fee shall not be returned to the subdivider if he or she fails
to meet the requirements of these regulations or fails to submit a final plat
in proper form. Such fee shall be used for the purpose of providing funds for
the administrative and professional costs incidental to the reviewing and
processing of the plat by Council, the Planning and Zoning Commission, their
officers or employees, and all legal, engineering and development professionals
as needed.
   (b)   The preliminary plat fee shall be comprised of a flat fee and a fee
per lot for all lots in the proposed subdivision in accordance with the fee
schedule adopted and approved by Village Council.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989; Ord. 10-2014, passed 10-13-2014)
§ 1214.04 CONTENTS.
   (a)   Preliminary plats shall include all of the following:
      (1)   A vicinity map showing the general location of the subdivision;
      (2)   The name under which the proposed subdivision is to be recorded and
the names and addresses of the subdivider, the owners and the registered
engineer or registered surveyor platting the tract. The proposed name of the
subdivision shall not duplicate the name of any subdivision already in use in
Franklin County;
      (3)   The location of present property, section and Congressional
Township lines, U.S. survey lines and lines of incorporated areas, streets,
buildings, watercourses, sinkholes, tree masses and other similar existing
features within the area to be subdivided and a description of how these lines
relate to the overall area;
      (4)   The names and boundaries of all adjoining subdivisions and the
names of the record owners of adjoining parcels of unsubdivided land;
      (5)   The zoning district or districts that affect the property to be
subdivided;
      (6)   The north point, scale and date;
      (7)   Existing contours with intervals of five feet where the slope is
greater than 10%, and not more than one foot where the slope is less than 10%.
Elevations shall be based upon sea level datum. The location of bench marks and
their elevations and all other monuments shall also be shown;
      (8)   Proposed locations, names and dimensions of all streets, alleys,
lots, building lines and easements and the approximate area of lots, in square
feet. Streets that are in obvious alignment with streets already existing and
named shall bear the names of the existing streets. Street names shall not be
duplicated within the county. The subdivider may be required to continue
certain adjoining streets through the area being subdivided, when necessary, to
provide for legal vehicular movement or to enable adjoining property to be
properly subdivided;
      (9)   The location, invert elevation and size of existing sanitary storm
sewers, water mains, culverts, street lights and other utilities and
underground structures within the tract or immediately adjacent thereto; and
      (10)   Parcels of land intended to be dedicated to, or temporarily
reserved for, public use, or reserved by deed covenant. The conditions proposed
for such covenants and for the dedications shall be shown on, or attached to,
the preliminary plat.
   (b)   The following information shall be supplied in addition to the
requirements of division (a) above:
      (1)   A statement of the proposed use of the lots, giving the type and
number of dwelling units and the type of business or industry, if known;
      (2)   The location and approximate dimensions of all existing buildings;
and
      (3)   For commercial and industrial development, the location, dimensions
and approximate grade of proposed parking and loading areas, alleys, pedestrian
walks, streets and points of vehicular ingress and egress to the development.
   (c)   In a letter accompanying the request for approval of the preliminary
plat, the subdivider shall state the type of sewage disposal he or she proposes
to use if public facilities are not available. If the type of sewage disposal
is other than a treatment plant, such letter shall be accompanied by a letter
from the County Health Department and the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency
stating what type of sewage disposal will be approved for the soil conditions
encountered in the area of the proposed subdivision. At least one percolation
test shall be made for each lot area being platted and each test shall be
located in close proximity to the proposed individual sewage disposal unit,
shall be numbered and shall have its location shown on the preliminary plat.
All percolation tests shall be performed in accordance with the requirements of
the County Board of Health. If a central plant is to be used, such letter shall
be accompanied by a letter from the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency
stating what type of sewage disposal will be approved.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1889)
§ 1214.05 MINIMUM DIMENSIONS.
   (a)   Street Widths.
      (1)   The width of streets shall conform to the width designated on the
Thoroughfare Plan and on any subsequent amendments thereto.
      (2)   Streets shall have the following minimum right-of-way widths:
 
Type of Street Width (ft.)
Arterial       80
Boulevard      100
Collector      60
Cul-de-sac     60
Local          60
Minor          50
 
      (3)   Right-of-way widths in PUD-zoned areas shall be subject to the
approval of the Planning and Zoning Commission and shall be not less than 50
feet. An additional ten feet of width shall be required where parking is
provided on both sides of the street, except for minor streets.
      (4)   Whenever any subdivision or resubdivision provides lots in the
interior of existing blocks, such lots shall front upon, or have proper access
to, a permanently dedicated street which connects with one of the streets
bounding the block. All dead-end streets shall have adequate provision for the
turning of vehicles in the interior portions of the block. Such turning area
shall be a circular drive having an overall diameter of not less than 110 feet
to the right-of-way lines.
      (5)   Whenever there exists a dedicated or platted portion of a street
adjacent to the tract to be subdivided, the remaining portion of the street
shall be platted or dedicated to provide a minimum right- of-way of 60 feet or
a right-of-way as shown on the Thoroughfare Plan.
      (6)   Property lines at street intersections shall be rounded to a
minimum radius of 25 feet.
   (b)   Blocks and Lots.
      (1)   No block shall be longer than 1,500 feet between street lines.
      (2)   Where blocks are over 750 feet in length, the Planning and Zoning
Commission may require a crosswalk near the center of the block. The right-of-
way for any such walk shall be not less than ten feet in width and such walk
space shall be improved with at least a four-foot wide walk.
      (3)   All side lines of lots shall be at right angles to straight street
lines or radial to curved street lines, unless a variation to this rule will
give a better street and lot plan. Lots with double frontage should be avoided,
if possible.
      (4)   Corner lots shall have extra width to permit the maintenance of
building lines on both front and side streets, as required by the Zoning Code.
      (5)   The minimum area and width of all lots shall conform to the area
regulations of the zoning district in which the lot is located.
   (c)   Easements. Easements shall be provided where required and necessary.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1214.06 APPROVAL BY PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   The preliminary plat shall be deemed submitted to the Planning and Zoning
Commission at its first regular meeting scheduled not less than 30 days
following the filing of the plat with the Fiscal Officer, as provided. The
Commission shall forward a copy of the preliminary plat to the Village Engineer
for review and report. The Commission shall approve, with modifications, or
disapprove the plat at its next regular meeting. The failure of the Commission
to approve or disapprove a plat within the time fixed herein, or within such
further time as the applying party may agree to, shall constitute approval of
the plat by the Commission, and a certificate from the Secretary of the
Commission, as to the date of the submission of the plat for approval and the
failure of the Commission to take action thereon within such time, shall be
issued on demand and shall be sufficient in lieu of the written endorsement of
approval required by this section.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1214.07 DISAPPROVAL BY PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION; APPLICABILITY.
   (a)   If the Planning and Zoning Commission disapproves a preliminary plat,
it shall enter in its minutes the reason for such disapproval. The subdivider
may thereafter make such changes as are necessary to conform the plat to these
subdivision regulations and may resubmit the same, as revised, to the
Commission for approval or disapproval. The revised plat shall be processed
within the times and in the manner provided in this chapter.
   (b)   This section is not applicable to PUD-zoned areas.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1214.08 APPROVAL BY COUNCIL.
   (a)   Upon approval of a preliminary plat, the Planning and Zoning
Commission shall certify one copy thereof to Council for approval or
disapproval. Failure of Council to approve or disapprove the preliminary plat
at the next regular meeting occurring more than ten days following
certification of the plat to Council shall be deemed to constitute approval of
the preliminary plat by Council, unless a further delay is agreed to by the
subdivider. Approval by Council of the preliminary plat shall constitute
approval of the layout of the streets and public grounds shown thereon and
shall evidence Council’s intention to accept the dedication of the same upon
approval by the Commission of the final plat. The approval of the preliminary
plat shall be effective for a maximum period of 12 months, unless an extension
is granted by the Commission.
   (b)   The approval of the preliminary plat does not constitute an acceptance
of the subdivision, but merely authorizes the developer to proceed with work on
the final plat. One copy of the approved preliminary plat, signed by the
Chairperson of the Planning and Zoning Commission and the Mayor, shall be
retained in the office of the Fiscal Officer. One signed copy shall be given to
the subdivider and one signed copy shall be given to the Village Engineer.
   (c)   Receipt of such signed copy is authorization for the subdivider to
proceed with the preparation of detailed plans and specifications for the
minimum improvements required by these subdivision regulations and with the
preparation of the final plat. Prior to the construction of any improvements
required or to the submission of any bond, the subdivider shall furnish to
Council all plans, information and data necessary for such improvements. These
plans shall be examined by Council and shall be approved if they are in
accordance with the requirements of these subdivision regulations. Following
such approval, construction may be started or the amount of a bond determined,
as provided.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
CHAPTER 1216: FINAL PLATS
Section
1216.01   Filing.
1216.02   Open space requirements.
1216.03   Land dedication for public recreational facilities.
1216.04   Review by Village Engineer.
1216.05   Approval or disapproval by Planning and Zoning Commission.
1216.06   Acceptance by Council.
1216.07   Required statements and signatures.
1216.08   Submittals to Planning and Zoning Commission.
1216.09   Contents.
1216.10   Approval by Council.
Statutory reference:
   Original plats, see R.C. §§ 711.01 et seq.
   Revision of plats, see R.C. §§ 711.28 et seq.
   Vacating plats, see R.C. §§ 711.17 et seq.
§ 1216.01 FILING.
   (a)   Upon completion of all improvements or posting of appropriate bonds,
as required by these subdivision regulations, the subdivider shall file the
final plat at least ten working days before the next Planning and Zoning
Commission meeting. The final plat of any portion of a larger subdivision, the
preliminary plat of which has been approved by the Commission, may be submitted
for approval. Completion of improvements, or the giving of security therefor,
need only cover that portion of the plat for which final approval is requested.
   (b)   Upon filing a final plat for a subdivision, the subdivider shall pay a
final plat fee.
      (1)   Such fee shall be used for the purpose of providing funds for the
administrative and professional costs incidental to the reviewing and
processing of the final plat by Council, the Planning and Zoning Commission,
their officers or employees, and all legal, engineering and development
professionals as needed.
      (2)   The final plat fee shall be comprised of a flat fee and a fee per
lot for all lots in the proposed subdivision in accordance with the fee
schedule adopted and approved by Village Council. Such fee need only cover that
portion of the plat for which final plat approval is requested.
(Ord. 11-2014, passed 10-13-2014)
§ 1216.02 OPEN SPACE REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   Land Dedication. The basic land dedication requirement shall be that
2% of the total gross site area, plus 0.03 acres per dwelling unit proposed,
shall be set aside as open space, except that in no case shall the open space
requirement exceed 25% of the total gross site area. Such area shall constitute
ground suitable for public parks and playground facilities, as reviewed and
approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (b)   Private Recreational Facilities. If the resulting land dedication is
determined to be of insufficient size or inappropriately located, or if public
ownership and operation of such recreational areas are not feasible, the
village may request that an applicant plan for the provision of privately
financed and owned recreational facilities. Such private park areas shall be
not less than 65% of the land area otherwise required under division (a)
hereof, provided that such park areas shall be privately developed for
recreational uses. The applicant shall be required to indicate:
      (1)   The proposed size and location of the park area;
      (2)   The proposed recreational facilities and site improvements to be
made;
      (3)   A schedule indicating how actual construction of the proposed park
and improvements is to be phased in, in relationship to overall project
phasing; and
      (4)   How both ownership and maintenance of such park areas are to be
undertaken.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1216.03 LAND DEDICATION FOR PUBLIC RECREATIONAL FACILITIES.
   (a)   As a prerequisite to the approval of the final plat of a subdivision,
the owner or proprietor of each new subdivision for the purpose of transfer of
ownership of land shall pay a public use fee into the Parkland Capital
Improvement Fund of the Village of Minerva Park in accordance with the fee
schedule adopted and approved by Village Council.
   (b)   The public use fee shall be in addition to the land dedicated for
parks and playground facilities, under §
1216.02, for a residential subdivision, planned unit development or a
subdivision containing residential living units.
   (c)   In lieu of the payment of the public use fees hereinbefore provided,
Village Council, after receiving the Planning Commission’s recommendation, may
accept the dedication for public use of an amount of land equal to 0.025 acres
per residential or dwelling unit proposed and such land shall be dedicated as a
site for the purposes set forth in division (b) hereof, except that in no case
shall the site exceed 25% of the total gross site area.
   (d)   The village shall use property acquired under this section for parks,
playgrounds, gymnasiums, swimming pools, indoor recreation centers or other
public purposes. Such property may be used in connection with a school building
or school premises operated by the Board of Education of the Westerville School
District and shall be dedicated on a case-by-case basis. Nothing in this
section shall prevent any such park or recreational facility from being jointly
acquired, operated and maintained by the village and the Westerville Board of
Education, if both parties so agree.
   (e)   Under no condition shall any land obtained under this section that is
used jointly with any school district be used for the erection of an
educational building, storage site, bus terminal, administration facility or
other such use.
(Ord. 05-2014, passed 6-2-2014)
§ 1216.04   REVIEW BY VILLAGE ENGINEER.
   (a)   Within five days after the final plat has been filed, a copy thereof
shall be transmitted to the Village Engineer, who will check the plat to
determine if it conforms to the preliminary plat as approved. If the final plat
does so conform, the Engineer shall, within ten working days after the plat has
been transmitted to him or her, return the plat to the Planning and Zoning
Commission Chairperson together with a two-fold certificate showing:
      (1)   The technical details of the plat have been checked and that the
final plat conforms in all essential respects to the preliminary plat; and
      (2)   All required improvements have been satisfactorily completed, or
that security has been given for the making of such improvements, as provided
by these subdivision regulations.
   (b)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall thereupon certify to Council
that the plat has met all requirements of these subdivision regulations.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1216.05 APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL BY PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   At the first meeting of the Planning and Zoning Commission after a copy of
the final plat, together with the Village Engineer’s certificate, has been
received by the Commission, the Commission shall approve the final plat and the
Chairperson of the Commission shall endorse such approval on the plat. Failure
of the Commission to approve or disapprove the plat within the time fixed, or
within such further time as the applying party may agree to, shall constitute
approval of the plat, and the certificate of the Secretary of the Commission as
to the date of submission of the plat for approval, and as to the failure of
the Commission to take action thereon, shall be issued on demand and shall be
sufficient in lieu of the written endorsement of approval. If the Commission
disapproves the final plat, it shall enter in its minutes the reason for such
disapproval.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1216.06 ACCEPTANCE BY COUNCIL.
   Within five days after the Planning and Zoning Commission has approved the
final plat, the plat shall be transmitted to Council, together with all
certificates and endorsements required by this chapter. Council shall approve
or disapprove the plat at its next regular meeting, occurring not less than
five days following the Commission approval. Approval of the plat by Council
shall be deemed to constitute acceptance of the public way or space shown on
the plat. Failure of Council to act within the prescribed time, unless an
extension of time is agreed to by the subdivider, shall constitute approval of
the plat.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1216.07 REQUIRED STATEMENTS AND SIGNATURES.
   The following statements shall be affixed on the subdivision plat required
by these subdivision regulations:
Situated in Section                              , Township
                             , Range                           , Franklin
County, Village of Minerva Park, Ohio, containing
                                         acres and being the same tract as
conveyed to
                                                                       and
described in the deed recorded in Deed Book
                                       , Franklin County, Ohio.
The undersigned,                                                      , hereby
certify that the attached plat correctly represents their
                                         , a subdivision of Lots
                                 to                                    ,
inclusive, and that they do hereby accept the plat of the same and dedicate to
public (private) use as such all or parts of the roads, boulevards, cul-de-
sacs, parks, planting strips, etc., shown herein and not heretofore dedicated.
The undersigned further agree that any use of improvements made on this land
shall be in conformity with all existing valid zoning, platting, health or
other lawful rules and regulations, including the applicable off-street parking
and loading requirements of the Village of Minerva Park, Ohio, for the benefit
of themselves and all other subsequent owners or assigns taking title from,
under or through the undersigned.
In witness whereof we have hereunto subscribed our names this               
day of                     , 20    .
Witness                                          Signed
                                       
                                                         
We do hereby certify that we have surveyed the premises and prepared the
attached plat and that said plat is correct.
                                       By
                                          
   STATE OF OHIO;
   VILLAGE OF MINERVA PARK, OHIO
Before me, a Notary Public in and for the village, personally came
                 , who acknowledged the signing of the foregoing instrument to
be their voluntary act and deed for the purposes therein expressed.
In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and affixed my official seal
this                                 , 20     .
                                       By
                                          
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1216.08 SUBMITTALS TO PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   The final plat, in ink, on Mylar material, and five black-line or blue-line
prints thereof, and two copies of certified plans showing the improvements that
are to be constructed within the subdivision, and a bond assuring construction
of such improvements, in accordance with plans previously approved, shall be
submitted to the Planning and Zoning Commission.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1216.09 CONTENTS.
   (a)   The final plat shall show the following:
      (1)   The boundaries of the property, with accurate distances and
bearings and the lines and the extent of all proposed streets, with their
widths and names, and any other areas intended to be dedicated to public use;
      (2)   The lines of adjoining streets and alleys, with their widths and
names;
      (3)   All lot lines and easements, with their dimensions;
      (4)   All dimensions, both linear and angular, necessary for locating
boundaries of the subdivided area, including lots, streets, alleys, easements
and building line setbacks, and any other similar public or private areas.
Linear dimensions shall be expressed in feet and decimals of a foot;
      (5)   Radii, arcs, points of tangency and central angles for all
curvilinear streets, and radii for all rounded corners;
      (6)   All lot lines and an identification system for all lots and blocks;
      (7)   An accurate outline of any property which is offered for dedication
for public use;
      (8)   All survey monuments and bench marks, together with their
descriptions; and
      (9)   The title and description of the property subdivided, showing its
location and extent, point of compass, scale of the plan and name of the
subdivider.
   (b)   A certificate from a registered land surveyor, stating that the plan
represents a survey made by land surveyor, that the results of the survey are
correctly shown thereon, and that the monuments shown actually exist, shall
accompany the final plat.
   (c)   A certificate from the owner of the land, stating that all taxes due
have been previously paid, shall accompany the final plat, and a certificate of
title, or a photocopy thereof, shall be submitted for inspection.
   (d)   A certificate from the owner of the land, stating that he or she has
caused the land to be platted and that he or she dedicates to public use the
streets, parks and other land indicated on the plat as intended for public use,
shall accompany the final plat.
   (e)   There shall be submitted with each plat a tabulation showing the exact
area of each lot, reserve or other parcel on the plat (other than streets and
alleys), such area to be computed inclusive of, and after the extensions of,
lot or parcel lines to the centerline of contiguous public ways, such as
streets or alleys. The purposes of this requirement is to facilitate
calculation of the trunk sanitary benefit charges for each lot and parcel and
not for conveyance purposes.
   (f)   The final plat is to be drawn at a scale of 100 feet or less to the
inch from an accurate survey and on one or more sheets whose maximum dimensions
are 24 by 36 inches. In certain unusual instances, where the subdivided area is
of unusual size or shape, the Planning and Zoning Commission may permit a
variation in the scale or size of the final plat.
   (g)   Space for approval of the final plat by the Franklin County Department
of Health, as required, shall be provided on the final plat.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1216.10 APPROVAL BY COUNCIL.
   If the Planning and Zoning Commission disapproves a final plat, it shall
transmit its reasons therefor to Council, which may then approve the plat only
by a five-sixths vote of its membership.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
CHAPTER 1218: DESIGN STANDARDS
Section
1218.01   Compliance required.
1218.02   Standards for improvements.
1218.03   Submittal of plans.
1218.04   Permits for improvements.
1218.05   Security for construction.
1218.06   Costs of reviews, inspections and services.
1218.07   Construction of buildings.
1218.08   Time for construction of improvements.
1218.09   Street construction.
1218.10   Water supply.
1218.11   Storm drainage.
1218.12   Sewer connections.
1218.13   Street signs.
1218.14   Construction plans.
1218.15   Inspections.
1218.16   Maintenance of improvements after approval.
1218.17   Acceptance of streets by village.
1218.18   Sidewalks.
1218.19   Electric, telephone and cable television installations.
Statutory reference:
   Change of name, vacating and narrowing streets, see R.C. §§ 723.04 et seq.
   Cornerstones and permanent markers, see R.C. §§ 711.03, 711.14
   Notice to construct or repair sidewalks, see R.C. § 729.03
   Surface treatment of streets, see R.C. §§ 723.23, 723.31
§ 1218.01 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   The design of all improvements, including grades of streets, types of
pavement, drainage, sidewalks, sanitary sewers, storm sewers, water
distribution facilities, street lighting facilities and electric telephone and
cable television facilities, shall conform to the requirements set forth in
these subdivision regulations.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1218.02 STANDARDS FOR IMPROVEMENTS.
   (a)   Before Council will officially accept any street improvements, water
distribution facilities, sidewalks, street lighting facilities or storm and
sanitary sewer facilities in any subdivision, and become responsible for their
maintenance, supervision and repair, such improvements shall be constructed in
accordance with the construction and material specifications of the village.
Monuments shall be placed at angle points, points of curves in streets and at
such other points as required by the Village Engineer.
   (b)   Monuments shall be one-fourth inch steel rods set in, and running
through, concrete, at least four inches in diameter and at least 30 inches
long. The bottom of such block shall be set at least 30 inches below the
finished grade in the subdivision.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1218.03 SUBMITTAL OF PLANS.
   Detailed plans and specifications for all improvements shall be submitted to
the Village Engineer and shall meet his or her approval before any construction
shall proceed. Such plans shall be prepared by an engineer licensed in the
state. The village shall maintain a competent inspector on the job when
improvements are being constructed. Approvals from the Ohio Environmental
Protection Agency, the City of Columbus and other regulatory agencies may be
required.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1218.04 PERMITS FOR IMPROVEMENTS.
   Upon approval by Council, the subdivider may secure the necessary permits to
proceed with the required street, sanitary, water and drainage improvements.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1218.05 SECURITY FOR CONSTRUCTION.
   In lieu of constructing improvements, the subdivider may apply for final
plat approval by insuring completion of the required improvements in accordance
with the following.
   (a)   The owner shall have completed, or shall have agreed in writing to
complete, all public improvements required by the final development plan within
one year from the date of approval of the final plat, or such extension of time
as may be granted by Council, and the owner shall have agreed that he or she
will maintain such public improvements for a period of one year after their
acceptance by the village.
   (b)   The owner has agreed that all construction work and materials used in
connection with public improvements in the area platted will conform to the
requirements of the village and be installed under the Village Engineer’s
general supervision; that he or she will notify the Village Engineer in writing
three days or more before any construction has begun on such improvements in
order to permit inspection; that he or she will hold the village free and
harmless from any and all claims for damages of every nature arising or growing
out of the construction of such improvements and that he or she shall defend,
at his or her cost and expense, any suit or action brought against the village
by reason thereof, until the improvement has been accepted by the village; that
in the event of any violation of, or noncompliance with, any of the provisions
and stipulations of the agreement, the village shall have the right to stop
work forthwith and complete or cause the completion of such improvements
according to the approved plat and agreement; and that in such event the owner
shall reimburse the village for any and all expenses incurred thereby.
   (c)   The owner has furnished a subdivision bond and a maintenance bond
payable to the village, with sureties acceptable to Council, conditioned upon
performance by the owner of the agreement, or, in lieu of such bonds, some
other security satisfactory to Council. The amount of the subdivision bond
shall be equal to the estimated costs of constructing the improvements. The
maintenance bond shall be in an amount of 10% of the subdivision bond for the
purpose of maintaining the improvements for a period of one year. The
subdivision bond shall provide that it cannot be terminated or canceled without
approval of the village, and shall remain in force until such improvements have
been accepted by the village Engineer. The maintenance bond shall become
effective on the date the improvements are accepted by the Village Engineer and
shall remain in effect for a period of not less than one year and until any and
all corrective measures have been accomplished and are approved by the Village
Engineer.
   (d)   The subdivider may deposit in a bank or savings and loan association
in Franklin County, Ohio, a sum of not less than the total estimated
improvement cost, to be held in escrow, to guarantee the satisfactory
completion of such improvements within the required time. The form of the
escrow agreement shall be subject to the approval of the Director of Law and
such agreement may provide for the making of payments from such funds, from
time to time, upon the filing of certificates from the Village Engineer stating
that the balance remaining after such payments will, in his or her opinion, be
adequate to pay the remaining costs of the improvements.
   (e)   The subdivider may deposit with the village a certified check, in the
amount of the total estimated improvement cost, to be held in escrow until the
satisfactory completion of construction, unless there is a default in the
completion of such improvements, in which event the check may be cashed by the
Fiscal Officer and the proceeds thereof used to complete the improvements, to
pay claims connected therewith for which the subdivider may be liable or to
cure any other default of the subdivider connected with the making of such
improvements.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1218.06 COSTS OF REVIEWS, INSPECTIONS AND SERVICES.
   For a subdivision within the village, the subdivider shall pay to the
village an amount equal to 10% of the estimated cost of the improvements. Such
fee is to cover the village’s expenses related to plan reviews, engineering,
inspections and testing, legal services and other expenses related to the
development of the sudivision including infrastructure. In addition, such fee
is to cover a pro rata portion of the village’s expenses with regard to
annexation, zoning and approval of the preliminary development plan and
development standards text, which pro rata portion shall be determined by the
Mayor based on actual invoices for professional services allocated on a per lot
basis. This fee shall be paid by the subdivider prior to the start of any
construction and prior to obtaining the required signatures on the final plat.
If the subdivision includes more than one plat, the fee shall be paid on a
plat-by-plat basis. If expenses are estimated to be incurred beyond the amount
of 10% of the estimated cost of improvements, the Mayor shall estimate the
additional deposit necessary to cover the village’s costs and this additional
deposit will be billed to the subdivider payable within 30 days. Upon written
application by the subdivider to the Mayor within 12 months from the date of
final acceptance of the improvements, any remaining balance of the additional
deposit shall be refunded to the depositor. If the depositor fails to make such
written application for refund of the remaining balance of the additional
deposit, the funds shall be forfeited to the village.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989; Ord. 04-2014, passed 6-2-2014)
§ 1218.07 CONSTRUCTION OF BUILDINGS.
   Construction of buildings shall not be permitted until all improvements
leading to the lot are completed and accepted by the village.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1218.08 TIME FOR CONSTRUCTION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   All required improvements shall be constructed within two years of the
acceptance of the final plat by Council, contingent upon unforeseen delays or
an extension of time by Council.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1218.09 STREET CONSTRUCTION.
   Streets shall be graded to the full width of the right-of-way and shall be
fully constructed with all- weather pavements, concrete curbs and gutters with
tile underdrain and porous backfill, and proper storm drains and inlets.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1218.10 WATER SUPPLY.
   Where a public water supply main is reasonably accessible, in the judgment
of the Planning and Zoning Commission, the subdivider shall provide a complete
loop-type water distribution system adequate to serve the area being platted,
including a connection for each lot and fire hydrant.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1218.11 STORM DRAINAGE.
   (a)   Stormwater Design Manual. The Stormwater Design Manual, as adopted by
the Mid-Ohio Regional Planning Commission, is hereby adopted by the village and
the policies, standards, specifications and provisions contained therein shall
apply to the development of all subdivisions in the village.
   (b)   Hydrologic and Hydraulic Studies.
      (1)   A hydrologic and hydraulic study of any subdivision shall be
submitted prior to final plat approval and as part of the construction drawings
for such subdivision. These studies shall be used to establish:
         A.   The adequacy of the drainage system of the development site. As
part of these studies, the adequacy of the storm drainage facilities necessary
to carry the runoff from the initial storm design shall be shown. The flow
routes and drainageways necessary to convey the 100-year storm (the emergency
flow way) through the development shall also be shown, as shall any necessary
easements;
         B.   The adequacy of the drainage system of the proposed development
to receive and convey the initial and major storms from dominant (upstream)
property; and
         C.   The adequacy of the drainage system of the proposed development
so as not to create or worsen drainage problems downstream.
      (2)   As part of these studies, storage facilities, when used, shall be
located and identified by type.
   (c)   Stormwater Runoff Limitations.
      (1)   If the hydrologic and hydraulic studies reveal that the proposed
development or subdivision would not increase the total volume of stormwater
runoff, the peak rate of runoff after development shall not be greater than the
peak rate of runoff before development for all return periods of storms, up to
100 years.
      (2)   If the hydrologic and hydraulic studies reveal that the total
volume of stormwater runoff is increased, the peak rate of runoff after
development, from the critical storm, shall not exceed the predevelopment peak
rate of runoff from a one-year frequency storm. The peak rate of runoff for
each storm of greater or lesser frequency shall be determined in accordance
with the Stormwater Design Manual; provided, however, that the peak rate of
runoff after development may not exceed the peak rate of runoff before
development.
   (d)   Subdivision Drainage Systems.
      (1)   Storm drainage facilities for the subdivision or development shall
be designed to accommodate runoff from the five-year storm frequency. Site
design and grading plans shall provide emergency drainageways, in order to
avoid both damage to the structure and endangerment of the public safety, which
emergency drainageways shall be designed to accommodate runoff from storms
exceeding the five-year storm frequency, but not exceeding the 100-year storm
frequency.
      (2)   The initial drainage system shall be located within the street
rights-of-way whenever practicable. If the collector facilities cannot be
located in the street rights-of-way, then they shall be located adjacent to
side or rear lot lines where easements shall be provided to and along the
facilities.
      (3)   All stormwater flow from the proposed subdivision, including flows
from upstream areas passing through and further including increased flows
attributable to changes in time of concentration or a change in the former
runoff factor (imperviousness), shall be conveyed to the proper outlet for the
entire tributary area via a natural channel or an artificial channel, either or
both of which shall be improved so as to be of an adequate capacity determined
in accordance with the Stormwater Design Manual.
   (e)   Easements and Access. Access to flood control or storm drainage
facilities for emergency, inspection, maintenance and improvement purposes
shall be provided as follows.
      (1)   Access to flood control or storm drainage ditches, channels and
storage facilities shall be by means of easements. Such easements shall be not
less than 15 feet in width, exclusive of the width of the ditch, channel or
other facility it is to serve, and an easement of this type shall be provided
on one side of a flood control or storm drainage ditch, channel or similar
facility.
      (2)   Access along flood control or storm drainage ditches and channels
shall be by means of easements. Such easements shall be not less than 15 feet
in width, exclusive of the width of the ditch, channel or other facility it is
to serve, and an easement of this type shall be provided on both sides of a
flood control or storm drainage ditch, channel or similar facility.
      (3)   Access along the initial drainage system shall be by means of
easements. Such easements shall be not less than 15 feet in width, with a
minimum of five feet in width on each side of the centerline.
      (4)   Access around storage facilities shall be by a ten-foot easement in
the case of detention (dry) basins, and a 25-foot easement in the case of
retention (wet) basins, measured from the line of the design high water level,
and shall include the storage facility itself.
      (5)   Easements for emergency flow ways shall be a minimum of 15 feet in
width.
      (6)   Flood control or storm drainage easements containing underground
facilities shall have a minimum width of ten feet.
   (f)   Exemptions. An exemption to any of the requirements of this section
may be granted if Council and the Village Engineer determine that no downstream
flood liability will be incurred. Exemptions to the requirement of access to
easements may be granted by Council if the applicant shows adequate access by
other means.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1218.12 SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   (a)   Where a public sanitary sewer main is within one mile of a
subdivision, the subdivider shall provide a complete sanitary sewer system,
including a lateral connection for each lot.
   (b)   If temporary measures for providing sanitary sewer facilities are
approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission, such temporary measures,
including, but not limited to, the installation of package sewage treatment
plants, lift stations, temporary sewer lines or force mains, which direct flow
to sewers not planned to receive such flow, shall be subject to future
assessments for relieving the temporary sanitary sewer measures. Proper waivers
shall be noted on the subdivision plans and plats and, in the conveyance of
such lands, the plans and plats shall indicate such possible future
assessments.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1218.13 STREET SIGNS.
   (a)   The village shall install street signs in standard subdivisions.
   (b)   The subdivider shall reimburse the village for the cost of street
signs.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1218.14 CONSTRUCTION PLANS.
   Construction plans for the following improvements shall be prepared by a
registered professional engineer, shall be in accordance with the construction
and material specifications of the village and shall receive approval of the
Village Engineer and other regulatory agencies before improvements are
installed and before approval of the final plat. Construction plans shall
include the following:
   (a)   A centerline profile of each proposed street, showing proposed grades;
   (b)   The plan of each proposed street, showing the width of the pavement,
the location and width of sidewalks and the location and size of utility mains;
   (c)   Plans and profiles of proposed sanitary sewers and stormwater sewers,
showing grades and sizes; and
   (d)   A plan of the proposed water distribution system, showing pipe sizes
and the location of valves, fire hydrants and water services.
   (e)   A drainage plan showing all existing and proposed storm sewers,
manholes, catch basins, watercourses, culverts and underground structures
within the tract and immediately adjacent thereto, with pipe sizes and grades
and waterway openings indicated thereon. The drainage plan shall show the
method to be used for the adequate disposal of all stormwater, including
drainage outlets, and such other data as may be required by the Village
Engineer.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1218.15 INSPECTIONS.
   Prior to starting any of the work covered by the construction plans, after
approval thereof, arrangements shall be made to provide for inspection of the
work by the Village Engineer.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1218.16 MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS AFTER APPROVAL.
   For a period of one year from the date the constructed improvements are
accepted by the village, the subdivider shall make such repairs or replacements
as determined by the Village Engineer to bring all improvements within the
standards required by these subdivision regulations. For such purposes, the
subdivider shall furnish the village a bond or other surety acceptable to
Council in the amount of 10% of the subdivision bond for such purpose. Such
bond shall be effective from the date of acceptance of the improvements until
all maintenance items have been performed and accepted by the Village Engineer.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1218.17 ACCEPTANCE OF STREETS BY VILLAGE.
   The Village Engineer shall, upon written request from the owner of the land
upon which a street has been constructed, check the construction, and if the
Village Engineer finds that such street has been constructed in accordance with
the specifications set forth on the approved plat and that such street is in
good repair, then such finding, endorsed on the approved plat, shall constitute
an acceptance of the street for public use by the village, provided that such
street has been theretofore duly dedicated.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1218.18 SIDEWALKS.
   Sidewalks shall be constructed on both sides of all streets, except as
waived by Council.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1218.19 ELECTRIC, TELEPHONE AND CABLE TELEVISION INSTALLATIONS.
   The installation, construction and expansion of electric, telephone and
cable television facilities shall generally be done underground, subject to the
following conditions and exceptions.
   (a)   Transmission lines are exempted from the provisions of this section.
For purposes of this section, “transmission lines” means those lines
constructed between generating stations and substations.
   (b)   For the standard or typical underground utility installation,
equipment that is typically placed above ground, such as transformers and
switches affixed on the ground, shall be exempt from the provisions of this
section.
   (c)   For purposes of this section, underground services adjacent to new
subdivisions, commercial uses and industrial uses shall include, but not be
limited to:
      (1)   Overhead wires extending across the public right-of-way from
existing overhead service to such new subdivisions, commercial uses and
industrial uses; and
      (2)   Adjacent overhead services within the property submitted for
subdivision approval that existed prior to the filing of a preliminary plat.
   (d)   Temporary overhead service of electric and telephone utilities shall
be allowed, provided that all permanent electric, telephone and cable
television services within and adjacent to new subdivisions, commercial uses
and industrial uses shall be underground. For the purposes of this section,
“temporary overhead service” means:
      (1)   Service which is necessary for immediate public convenience and
necessity and which is constructed to serve only on an interim basis until
permanent underground services can be installed; and
      (2)   Service which, in order to reach a new subdivision, commercial use
or industrial use, must be extended from the existing overhead service through
undeveloped parcels of land not included in the subdivision, commercial use or
industrial use.
   (e)   The owner or developer of new subdivisions, commercial uses and
industrial uses shall offer an easement for cable television and cable
television equipment within the easement shown on the plat for electric and
telephone utilities. The easements shall be granted at no expense to the cable
television operator.
   (f)   The providers of electric, telephone and cable television services are
encouraged to inform the Planning and Zoning Commission as to the nature and
location of their services and their plans for increasing service capacity.
   (g)   In accordance with §
1212.05, any aggrieved party shall have the right to seek a variance from the
strict enforcement of this section.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
CHAPTER 1220: IMPROVEMENTS
Section
1220.01   Minimum pavement widths.
1220.02   Street grades.
1220.03   Curvature of streets.
1220.04   Intersections.
1220.05   Entrance gates and signs.
1220.06   Specifications.
Statutory reference:
   Inspection of construction; acceptance by village, see R.C. § 711.091
§ 1220.01 MINIMUM PAVEMENT WIDTHS.
   (a)   Minimum pavement widths, back of curb to back of curb, installed at
the subdivider’s expense, shall be as follows:
 
Type of Street Width (ft.)
Arterial       45
Boulevard      48
Collector      36
Cul-de-sac     32
Local          32
Minor          24
 
   (b)   For cul-de-sac streets in standard subdivisions not over 600 feet
long, the pavement of a turning circle at the end of a dead-end street shall
have a minimum outside diameter of 80 feet.
   (c)   Conditional to approval by the Planning and Zoning Commission, private
streets shall be constructed in accordance with the minimum standards set forth
in these subdivision regulations.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1220.02 STREET GRADES.
   (a)   The grades of streets shall not exceed the following, except that
where unusual or exceptional conditions exist, the Village Engineer may modify
these regulations:
 
Type of Street or Way         Grade (percent)
Arterial                      4
Collector and service drives  10
Cul-de-sac and service drives 10
Minor (place or lane)         15
Pedestrian ways or crosswalks 12, unless steps of an acceptable design are to
                              be constructed
 
   (b)   In no event shall the minimum grade of any street be less than 0.5%.
   (c)   All changes in street grades in excess of 1% shall be connected by
vertical curves of a minimum length equal to 15 times the algebraic difference
in the rates of grade.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1220.03 CURVATURE OF STREETS.
   The radius of curvature on the centerline of a street shall be not less than
the following:
 
Type of Street                Curvature (ft.)
Arterial and collector        400
Cul-de-sac and service drives 100
Local                         200
 
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1220.04 INTERSECTIONS.
   Street curb intersections shall be rounded by radii of at least 25 feet on
local streets and 35 feet on collector and arterial streets.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1220.05 ENTRANCE GATES AND SIGNS.
   Entrance gates, posts, columns, walls, fences or similar structures designed
to indicate entrances to subdivisions or parts thereof, and signs designating
the subdivision or development, shall be permissible either on public or
private property, provided that both the Planning and Zoning Commission and
Council determine that such structures are desirable. In no case shall such
approval be given, unless provision is made, satisfactory to Council, for the
proper location and maintenance of such structures.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1220.06 SPECIFICATIONS.
   All materials and construction procedures shall be in accordance with all
applicable provisions of village ordinances and with the latest edition of the
Construction and Material Specifications issued by the Ohio Department of
Transportation and the City of Columbus.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
TITLE SIX: ZONING
CHAPTER 1230: GENERAL PROVISIONS AND DEFINITIONS
Section
1230.01   Designation and purpose.
1230.02   Scope.
1230.03   Application.
1230.04   Interpretation.
1230.05   Definitions.
Cross-reference:
   Adult entertainment businesses, see
Ch. 1284
   General development standards, see
Ch. 1272
   Landscaping, see
Ch. 1278
   Off-street parking and loading, see
Ch. 1282
   Signs, see
Ch. 1280
   Special districts, see
Ch. 1276
   Special permits, see
Ch. 1274
Statutory reference:
   Municipal zoning in general, see R.C. §§ 713.06 et seq.
§ 1230.01 DESIGNATION AND PURPOSE.
   (a)   This Title Six of Part Twelve of these codified ordinances shall be
known as the Zoning Code of the Village of Minerva Park, Ohio, and may be cited
as such or as the Zoning Code.
   (b)   The purpose of this Zoning Code is as prescribed by R.C. Ch. 713.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1230.02 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this Zoning Code shall apply to all land now within or
hereafter annexed to the village.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1230.03 APPLICATION.
   (a)   New Development. New development, including the subdivision of land,
construction and the use of land or structures, shall conform to the
regulations for the zoning district in which such development is located.
      (1)   New Subdivisions. The subdivision or resubdivision of land shall
not create lots less than the minimum size required for the zoning district in
which such land is located, nor shall lots be provided or intended for uses not
allowed in the zoning district.
      (2)   New Structures. New structures and/or developments shall be
permitted only on lots subdivided to meet the requirements of this Zoning Code,
in accordance with the subdivision regulations of the village, and shall
conform to the development standards of the zoning districts in which such
construction is permitted, except as is otherwise provided for in division (d)
hereof.
      (3)   New Uses. Any new use of land or a structure shall be a permitted
use or a conditional use for the zoning district in which such use is to be
located.
   (b)   Existing Conforming Lots, Structures or Uses. Lots, structures or the
use of lots and/or structures which conform to the regulations of the zoning
district in which they are located may be continued to and may be altered,
extended or changed in accordance with the following.
      (1)   Conforming Lots. A conforming lot may be changed, altered, enlarged
or reduced in dimensions; provided, however, that the remaining lot and/or
resulting lots shall conform to the development standards for the zoning
district in which the lot is located.
      (2)   Conforming Structures. A conforming structure may be altered,
reconstructed or extended only in such a manner as will comply with the
development standards of the zoning district in which the structure is located.
      (3)   Conforming Uses. A conforming use may be expanded, modified or
changed only in such a manner as will comply with the permitted use or
conditional use regulations and with the development standards of the zoning
district in which the conforming use is located.
   (c)   Nonconforming Lots, Structures or Uses. Existing lots, structures and
accessory development, or the use of lots and/or structures, which would be
prohibited under the regulations for the zoning district in which they are
located shall be considered as nonconforming. A nonconforming use in violation
of a provision of this Zoning Code shall not be validated by the adoption of
this Zoning Code. It is the intent of this Zoning Code to permit these
nonconforming situations to continue until they are removed, but not to
encourage their continued use or expansion. A variance from any development
standard must be obtained by approval of the Planning and Zoning Commission and
Council.
   (d)   Nonconforming Structures and Developments. Structures and/or accessory
developments, which, by reason of their size, type, location on a lot, or
otherwise, are in conflict with the regulations of the zoning district in which
they are located, may be altered, reconstructed or extended only in such a
manner that the alteration, reconstruction or extension will comply with the
development standards of the zoning district in which the structure and/or
accessory development is located. Such alteration, reconstruction or extension
shall include such additional development and compliance with the development
standards of the zoning district as would be required of a new structure and/or
accessory development to the extent practicable and so that the spirit and
intent of the development standards are accomplished.
   (e)   Nonconforming Uses Superseded. Any nonconforming building, structure
or use of land superseded by a use permitted within the zoning district where
it is located shall thereafter be in conformity with this Code, and the
previous nonconforming use shall not be resumed.
   (f)   Nonconforming Uses Discontinued. Any nonconforming use of land that is
discontinued, and any building or structure left vacant for a period of one
year or more, shall not be resumed. Any subsequent use of the land shall be in
conformity with this Code, or be permitted by variance granted by the Planning
and Zoning Commission.
   (g)   Nonconforming Uses Destroyed. Any nonconforming building or use of
land destroyed by any cause to the extent of more than 50% of its replacement
value shall not be resumed or reconstructed. The remains of any building or
structure shall be razed. Any subsequent use of the land shall be in conformity
with this Code, based upon the reproduction cost of the building, structure or
use prior to the calamity and determined by the Zoning Inspector. In case of
any uncertainty about the replacement value of a particular building, structure
or use, the determination of the Mayor or his or her designee shall be final.
   (h)   Extension of Nonconforming Uses. The Planning and Zoning Commission
may authorize the extension of a nonconforming use throughout those parts of an
existing building that was manifestly designed or arranged for such use prior
to the effective date of this Code if no structural alterations except those
required by law are made therein.
   (i)   Prohibited Uses. The following uses are determined to be detrimental
to the character of the village and are specifically prohibited, unless they
are nonconforming uses. No permit shall be issued on the lot where a
nonconforming prohibited use is located without the prohibited use being
terminated and without evidence of its removal to grade. Uses not specifically
listed as prohibited, but not listed as permitted, are permitted only upon
approval by the Planning and Zoning Commission:
      (1)   Outhouses;
      (2)   Mobile homes;
      (3)   Garbage and refuse handling; and
      (4)   Junk yards.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989; Ord. 3-2002, passed 10-14-2002)
§ 1230.04    INTERPRETATION.
   Except where specifically defined in this Zoning Code, all words used in
this Zoning Code shall carry their customary meanings. Words used in the
present tense include the future tense; the singular number includes the
plural; the word “structure” includes the word “building”; the word “lot”
includes the word “plot” or “parcel”; the term “shall” is always mandatory; the
words “used” or “occupied”, as applied to any land or structure, shall be
construed to include the words “intended, arranged or designed to be used or
occupied”.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1230.05 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this Zoning Code:
   (a)   “Accessory building.” A subordinate building, the use of which is
incidental to and customary in connection with the principal building or use
and which is located on the same lot with such principal building or use.
   (b)   “Accessory use.” A subordinate use which is incidental to and
customary in connection with the principal building or use and which is located
on the same lot with such principal building or use.
   (c)   “Building.” A structure intended for shelter, housing or enclosure of
persons, animals or chattels. When separated by dividing walls without
openings, each portion of such structure so separated shall be deemed a
separate building.
   (d)   “Building, height of.” The vertical distance measured from the grade
to the highest point of the coping of a flat roof, to the deck line of a
mansard roof or to the mean height level between the eaves and ridge of a
gable, hip or gambrel roof.
   (e)   “Building setback line.” A line establishing the minimum allowable
distance between the nearest portion of any building and the centerline of any
street when measured perpendicularly thereto.
   (f)   “Child care.” Any place, home or institution which cares for young
children apart from their parents, when received for regular periods of time
for compensation, such as a kindergarten, a nursery school or a class for young
children that develops basic skills and social behavior by games, exercises,
toys and simple handicraft.
   (g)   “Clinic.” An establishment where patients are not lodged overnight,
but are admitted for examination and treatment by a group of physicians or
dentists practicing medicine together.
   (h)   “Commission.” The Planning and Zoning Commission of the village.
   (i)   “Council.” The Council of the village.
   (j)   “Dish antenna.” An outside accessory antenna that is linked to a
receiver located on the same lot and used for the reception of signals
transmitted by stations licensed by the Federal Communications Commission and
the Radio Broadcast Services, including AM, FM and television signals.
   (k)   “Drive-in commercial uses.” Retail or service establishments which
provide a designated place where people can drive up in motor vehicles and
conduct the major portion of their business without having to get out of their
motor vehicles, or where the serving of motor vehicles is the major business.
“Drive-in commercial uses” include, but need not be limited to, drive-in
restaurants which prepare and/or dispense ready-to-eat food or beverages and do
not provide a place for all their customers to eat inside the building, or
which serve ready-to-eat food or beverages for carry out; drive-in theaters;
drive-in eating and drinking places; establishments where customers may serve
themselves and may eat or drink food, refreshments or beverages on the
premises; car washes; and drive-in banks.
   (l)   “Dwelling, apartment.” A building arranged or intended for four or
more families living independently of each other in separate dwelling units,
any two or more of which are provided with a common entrance or hall and all
dwelling units of which are intended to be maintained under single ownership or
owned under condominium arrangement.
   (m)   “Dwelling, single-family.” A building arranged or designed to be
occupied by one family, the structure having only one dwelling unit.
   (n)   “Dwelling, two-family.” A building arranged or designed to be occupied
by two families, the structure having only two dwelling units with separate
entrances.
   (o)   “Landscaped area.” An area that is permanently devoted and maintained
for the growing of shrubbery, grass and other plant material.
   (p)   “Lot, depth of.” The average horizontal distance between front and
rear lot lines.
   (q)   “Lot, minimum.” A parcel of land occupied or to be occupied by a
principal structure or group of structures and accessory structures, together
with such yards, open spaces, lot width and lot area as are required by this
Zoning Code, and having not less than the minimum required frontage upon a
street, either shown and identified by lot number on a plat of record or
considered as a unit of property and described by metes and bounds.
   (r)   “Lot line.” A line bounding or demarcating a plot of land or ground as
established by a plat of record.
   (s)   “Lot, width.” The average horizontal distance between side lot lines.
   (t)   “Nonconforming use.” A legal use of a building and/or of land that
antedates the adoption of this Zoning Code and does not conform to the
regulations for the zoning district in which it is located.
   (u)   “Opaqueness.” The degree to which a wall, fence, structure or
landscaping is solid or impenetrable to light or vision in a generally uniform
pattern over its surface.
    (v)   “Street right-of-way line.” The dividing line between a street right-
of-way and the contiguous property.
   (w)   “Structure.” Anything constructed or erected, the use of which
requires permanent location on the ground or attachment to something having
permanent location on the ground, including advertising signs, billboards,
mobile homes (located for occupancy on a permanent foundation) and other
construction or erection with special function or form, except fences or walks.
   (x)   “Structure, principal.” A structure in which is conducted the
principal use of the lot on which it is situated.
   (y)   “Townhouse.” A building consisting of a series of three or more
attached or semi-detached dwelling units, each with a ground floor and a
separate ownership or condominium.
   (z)   “Yard, rear.” An open space between the rear lines of the principal
structure, exclusive of steps, and the rear line of the lot and extending the
full width of the lot. The “rear yard” may be used for accessory structures.
   (aa)   “Yard, side.” An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a
structure between the side line of the structure, exclusive of steps, and the
side line of the lot, and extending from the front line to the rear line of the
building.
   (bb)   “Zoning district.” Any section of the village in which zoning
regulations are uniform.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
CHAPTER 1232: ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY
Section
1232.01   Variances.
1232.02   Conditional uses.
1232.03   Fees for variances and conditional uses.
1232.99   Penalty.
Cross-reference:
   Adult entertainment businesses, see
Ch. 1284
   General development standards, see
Ch. 1272
   Landscaping, see
Ch. 1278
   Off-street parking and loading, see
Ch. 1282
   Signs, see
Ch. 1280
   Special districts, see
Ch. 1276
   Special permits, see
Ch. 1274
Statutory reference:
   Administrative board; powers and duties, see R.C. § 713.11
   Municipal zoning in general, see R.C. §§ 713.06 et seq.
   Violation of zoning ordinance may be enjoined, see R.C. § 713.13
§ 1232.01 VARIANCES.
   (a)   Nature of Variance.
      (1)   On a particular property, extraordinary circumstances may exist
making strict enforcement of the applicable development standards of this
Zoning Code unreasonable. Therefore, the procedure for a variance from
development standards is provided to allow the flexibility necessary to adapt
to changed or unusual conditions, both foreseen and unforeseen, under
circumstances which do not ordinarily involve a change of the primary use of
the land or structure permitted.
      (2)   Description of property and nature of variance. The application for
a variance shall include the following information:
         A.   The nature of the variance, including the specific provisions of
this Zoning Code upon which the variance is requested;
         B.   A legal description of the property;
         C.   A statement of the special circumstances or conditions applying
to the land or structure and not applying generally throughout the zoning
district;
         D.   A statement showing that the special conditions and circumstances
do not result from the actions of the applicant;
         E.   A statement showing that the granting of the application is
necessary to the preservation and enjoyment of substantial property rights; and
         F.   1.   Such other information regarding the application as may be
pertinent or required for appropriate action by the Council.
            2.   Plot plan. The application shall be accompanied by three
copies of a plot plan drawn to an appropriate scale showing the following:
               (a)   The boundaries and dimensions of the lot;
               (b)   The nature of the special conditions or circumstances
giving rise to the application for approval;
               (c)   The size and location of existing and proposed structures;
               (d)   The proposed use of all parts of the lot and structures,
including accessways, walks, off-street parking and loading spaces, and
landscaping;
               (e)   The relationship of the requested variance to the
development standards; and
               (f)   The use of land and the location of structures on adjacent
property.
   (b)   Review by Planning and Zoning Commission. One copy of the application
and plot plan shall be forwarded to the Planning and Zoning Commission not less
than 15 days prior to the date of the public hearing on the application. The
Commission, shall review the application and submit a written report to Council
on or before the date of the public hearing. Such report shall recommend
approval, modification or disapproval of the variance and the reasons therefor.
   (c)   Actions of Council. Council shall hold a public hearing and act on an
application in one of the following ways.
      (1)   Approval. Council shall only approve a variance or modification
thereof if the following findings are made:
         A.   Special conditions and circumstances exist which are peculiar to
the land or structure involved and which are not applicable to other lands or
structures in the same zoning district;
         B.   A literal interpretation of the provisions of this Zoning Code
would deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in
the same zoning district under the terms of this Zoning Code;
         C.   The special conditions and circumstances do not result from the
action of the applicant;
         D.   Granting the variance requested will not confer on the applicant
any special privilege that is denied by this Zoning Code to other lands or
structures in the same zoning district; and
         E.   Granting the variance will not adversely affect the health or
safety of persons residing or working in the vicinity of the proposed
development, be materially detrimental to the public welfare, or be injurious
to private property or public improvements in the vicinity.
      (2)   Change of Zoning Use. In the event a variance or modification
thereof would change the character of the land use, the result of which would
be to permit a different zoning use on the property, all in accordance with the
foregoing sections, then the variance or modification shall become effective
only after it has been approved as a variance or modification by Council.
      (3)   Certificate of Zoning Compliance. A certificate of zoning
compliance may be issued for an approved variance within a period of one year
from the date of final approval by Council.
      (4)   Building Permit. A building permit may be obtained for the
development only in accordance with the approved plot plan.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1232.02 CONDITIONAL USES. 
   (a)   Nature of Conditional Uses; Intent. Specifically listed conditional
uses are provided within the zoning district regulations in recognition of the
fact that such uses, although often desirable, will more intensely affect the
surrounding area in which they are located than the permitted uses of such
zoning districts. The intent of this section is to set forth the development
standards and criteria for locating and developing a conditional use in
accordance with the nature of the surrounding area and the conditions of
development and with regard to appropriate plans.
   (b)   Written Applications. Two copies of a written application shall be
filed with the Planning and Zoning Commission.
      (1)   Description of Property and Intended Use. The application shall
include the following statements:
         A.   A legal description of the property;
         B.   The proposed use of the property;
         C.   A statement of the necessity or desirability of the proposed use
to the neighborhood or community;
         D.   A statement of the relationship of the proposed use to adjacent
property and land use; and
         E.   Such other information regarding the property, proposed use or
surrounding area as may be pertinent to the application or required for
appropriate action by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
      (2)   Plot Plan. The application shall be accompanied by three copies of
a plot plan, drawn to an appropriate scale, clearly showing the following:
         A.   The boundaries and dimensions of the lot;
         B.   The size and location of existing and proposed structures;
         C.   The proposed use of all parts of the lot and structures,
including accessways, walks, off-street parking and loading spaces and
landscaping;
         D.   The relationship of the proposed development to the development
standards; and
         E.   The use of the land and the location of structures on adjacent
property.
   (c)   Review by the Planning and Zoning Commission. The application and plot
plans shall be forwarded to the Planning and Zoning Commission. The Planning
and Zoning Commission shall review the application and submit a written report
to the Council and shall recommend approval, modification or disapproval of the
conditional use and the reasons therefor.
   (d)   Actions of Council. Council shall hold a public hearing and act on a
conditional use in one of the following ways:
      (1)   Approval. Council shall approve an application for a conditional
use if the following three conditions are met:
         A.   The proposed use is a conditional use of the zoning district and
the applicable development standards established in this Zoning Code are met;
         B.   The proposed development is in accord with appropriate plans for
the area; and
         C.   The proposed development will be in keeping with the existing
land use character and physical development potential of the area.
      (2)   Approval with Modification.
         A.   Council may approve with modification an application for a
conditional use. If the proposed use is a conditional use of the zoning
district and the applicable development standards are met, plot plan
modification is required:
            1.   To be in accord with appropriate plans for the area; and
            2.   To prevent undesirable effects on adjacent property and the
surrounding area.
         B.   Such modification may be a limitation on the extent or intensity
of development, a requirement for additional screening by fence or landscaping,
a change in the method or plan for lighting, or a control of access or other
conditions of development as may be required. Recommendations regarding the
modification of plans or other appropriate actions shall be stated with the
reasons for such recommendations.
      (3)   Disapproval. Council shall only disapprove of an application for a
conditional use for any one of the following reasons:
         A.   The proposed use is not a conditional use of the zoning district,
or the applicable development standards are not and cannot be met;
         B.   The proposed development is not in accord with appropriate plans
of the area; or
         C.   The proposed development will have undesirable effects on the
surrounding area and is not in keeping with the existing land use character and
physical development potential of the area.
      (4)   Conditional Use Approval. Upon a favorable finding, Council shall
approve a conditional use application within 30 days following the public
hearing.
      (5)   Certificate of Zoning Compliance. A certificate of zoning
compliance may be issued for an approved conditional use within a period of one
year from the date of final approval by Council.
      (6)   Building Permit. A building permit may be obtained for the
development only in accordance with the approved plot plan.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1232.03 FEES FOR VARIANCES AND CONDITIONAL USES.
   A fee of $50 shall be paid to the village for each application for a
variance or conditional use to cover the necessary administrative and
advertising costs.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1232.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
Zoning Code, or a valid order issued for violation thereof, for which no
penalty is otherwise provided, is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree
for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (b)   The application of the penalty set forth in division (a) above shall
not be deemed to prohibit the removal of prohibited conditions or the
application of any other equitable remedy.
(Ord. 4-2002, passed 10-14-2002)
CHAPTER 1234: BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
Section
1234.01   Appeals to Council from decisions of the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
Cross-reference:
   Adult entertainment businesses, see
Ch. 1284
   General development standards, see
Ch. 1272
   Landscaping, see
Ch. 1278
   Off-street parking and loading, see
Ch. 1282
   Signs, see
Ch. 1280
   Special districts, see
Ch. 1276
   Special permits, see
Ch. 1274
Statutory reference:
   Administrative board; powers and duties, see R.C. § 713.11
   Municipal zoning in general, see R.C. §§ 713.06 et seq.
§ 1234.01 APPEALS TO COUNCIL FROM DECISIONS OF THE PLANNING AND ZONING
COMMISSION.
   (a)   Appeals to Council may be taken by any person aggrieved by, or by any
officer of the village affected by, any decision of the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
   (b)   Appeals shall be made within 20 days after the decision by filing with
the Fiscal Officer, a notice of appeal, specifying the grounds therefor.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
CHAPTER 1236: AMENDMENTS
Section
1236.01   Initiation of amendments; resubmission after disapproval.
1236.02   Amendment application; fee.
1236.03   Authority of Planning and Zoning Commission and Council; hearings.
Cross-reference:
   Adult entertainment businesses, see
Ch. 1284
   General development standards, see
Ch. 1272
   Landscaping, see
Ch. 1278
   Off-street parking and loading, see
Ch. 1282
   Signs, see
Ch. 1280
   Special districts, see
Ch. 1276
   Special permits, see
Ch. 1274
Statutory reference:
   Municipal zoning in general, see R.C. §§ 713.06 et seq.
   Notice and hearing on zoning regulations, see R.C. § 713.12
§ 1236.01 INITIATION OF AMENDMENTS; RESUBMISSION AFTER DISAPPROVAL.
   Council may amend the text of this Zoning Code, or the Zoning District Map
in any of the following ways.
   (a)   Initiation by Resolution or Motion. Proposed amendments may be
initiated by Council by resolution or by motion of the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
   (b)   Initiation by Application. Proposed amendments may be initiated by
application one or more owners or lessees of land within the area that is
proposed to be changed by amendment of the Zoning District Map, or by one or
more owners or lessees of land to be affected by an amendment of other
provisions of this Zoning Code.
   (c)   Resubmission of Application. If a proposed amendment or supplement
initiated by application is disapproved of by Council, another application for
amendment or supplement affecting the land included in the disapproved
application shall not be submitted within one year from the date of
disapproval, except with a statement from the Planning and Zoning Commission of
changed or changing conditions affecting the land sufficient to warrant
reconsideration.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1236.02 AMENDMENT APPLICATION; FEE.
   (a)   Filing. Two copies of a provided application form shall be filed with
the Mayor not less than 20 days prior to the public hearing of the Planning and
Zoning Commission at which the proposal is to be considered.
   (b)   Contents. The application for any proposed change or amendment shall
contain:
      (1)   A description or statement of the present and proposed provisions
of this Zoning Code or the proposed amendment of the district boundaries of the
Zoning District Map;
      (2)   A description by map or text of the property to be affected by the
proposed amendment;
      (3)   A statement of the relation of the proposed amendment to the
general health, safety and welfare of the public in terms of need or
appropriateness within the area by reason of changed or changing conditions and
the relation to appropriate plans for the area; and
      (4)   A list of owners of property within, contiguous to and directly
across the street from the area proposed to be rezoned. Such list shall be in
accordance with the Franklin County Auditor’s current tax list.
   (c)   Fees. A fee of $50 shall be paid to the village for each application
for any proposed amendment to cover the necessary administrative and
advertising costs.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1236.03 AUTHORITY OF PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION AND COUNCIL; HEARINGS.
   (a)   Review of Ordinance by Commission; Report; Date of Public Hearing.
Upon its own action, or upon receipt of an application from an owner or lessee
of land, or upon receipt of a resolution from the Planning and Zoning
Commission, Council shall transmit the ordinance regarding a proposed amendment
of this Zoning Code or the Zoning District Map to the Planning and Zoning
Commission for study and report. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall have
not less than 30 days in which to consider and report upon such proposed
ordinance. The report of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall be
transmitted to Council, at which time Council shall set a date for a public
hearing upon the proposed amendment.
   (b)   Notice of Public Hearing. A notice setting forth the time and place of
a public hearing and the nature of the proposed amendment shall be given by
Council, at least 30 days in advance of the date of such hearing, in a
newspaper of general circulation in the village.
      (1)   If the ordinance, measure or regulation intends to rezone or
redistrict ten or fewer parcels of land, as listed on the tax duplicate, a
written notice of the hearing shall be mailed by the Fiscal Officer by first
class mail, at least 20 days before the date of the public hearing, to the
owners of property within, contiguous to and directly across the street from
such parcel or parcels, to the addresses of such owners appearing on the County
Auditor’s current tax list or the Fiscal Officer’s mailing list, or to the
names and addresses supplied by the applicant to the Fiscal Officer at the time
of filing the application.
      (2)   During the 30 days preceding the public hearing, the text or a copy
of the text of the ordinance, measure or regulation, together with the maps or
plans, or copies thereof, forming a part of or referred to in the ordinance,
measure or regulation, and the maps, plans and reports submitted by the
Planning and Zoning Commission or by any board or officer, shall be on file,
for public examination, in the office of the Fiscal Officer or in such other
office as is designated by Council.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
CHAPTER 1238: DISTRICTS GENERALLY AND ZONING DISTRICT MAP
Section
1238.01   Establishment and adoption of district use and development
regulations.
1238.02   Interpretation and enforcement of regulations.
1238.03   Adoption of Zoning District Map; identification.
1238.04   Designation of districts on Zoning District Map; legend.
1238.05   District boundaries.
Cross-reference:
   Adult entertainment businesses, see
Ch. 1284
   General development standards, see
Ch. 1272
   Landscaping, see
Ch. 1278
   Off-street parking and loading, see
Ch. 1282
   Signs, see
Ch. 1280
   Special districts, see
Ch. 1276
   Special permits, see
Ch. 1274
Statutory reference:
   Municipal zoning in general, see R.C. §§ 713.06 et seq.
§ 1238.01 ESTABLISHMENT AND ADOPTION OF DISTRICT USE AND DEVELOPMENT
REGULATIONS.
   Regulations pertaining to the use of land and/or structures, and the
physical development thereof, within each of the zoning districts, as adopted
as a standard zoning district and as shown on the Zoning District Map, are
hereby established and adopted.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1238.02 INTERPRETATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF REGULATIONS.
   The standard district regulations, set forth in
Chapters 1238 through
1270, shall be interpreted and enforced according to the following rules:
   (a)   Permitted Uses. Only a use designated as a permitted use shall be
allowed as a matter of right in a zoning district, and any use not so
designated shall be prohibited, except that when an additional use is in
character with the zoning district, such additional use may be added to the
permitted uses of the zoning district by an amendment of this Zoning Code.
   (b)   Conditional Uses. A use designated as a conditional use shall be
allowed in a zoning district when such conditional use, its location, extent
and method of development, will not substantially alter the character of the
vicinity or unduly interfere with the use of adjacent lots in the manner
prescribed for the zoning district. To this end, the Planning and Zoning
Commission shall, in addition to the development standards for the zoning
district, set forth such additional requirements as will, in its judgment
render the conditional use compatible with the existing and future use of
adjacent lots and the vicinity.
   (c)   Development Standards. The development standards set forth in this
Zoning Code shall be the minimum allowed for development in a zoning district.
If the development standards are in conflict with the requirements of any other
lawfully adopted rules, regulations or laws, the more restrictive or higher
standard shall govern.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1238.03 ADOPTION OF ZONING DISTRICT MAP; IDENTIFICATION.
   (a)   Division of Land. All land in the village is placed into zoning
districts as shown on the Zoning District Map, which is hereby adopted and
declared to be a part of this Zoning Code.
      (1)   Final Authority. The Zoning District Map, as amended from time to
time, shall be the final authority for the current zoning district status of
land under the jurisdiction of this Zoning Code.
      (2)   Undesignated Land. All land under this Zoning Code that is not
designated or otherwise included within another zoning district on the Zoning
District Map shall be included in the Rural District.
   (b)   Identification of the Zoning District Map. The Zoning District Map,
with any amendments made thereon, shall be dated and identified by the
signatures of the Mayor and the Chairperson of the Planning and Zoning
Commission and shall be on file in the Village Offices for inspection by the
public.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1238.04 DESIGNATION OF DISTRICTS ON ZONING DISTRICT MAP; LEGEND.
   (a)   District Names and Symbols. The names and symbols for the standard
zoning districts as shown on the Zoning District Map are as follows:
Name Symbol
Name                                    Symbol
Residential Districts
Rural                                   R
Restricted Suburban Residential         R-1
Limited Suburban Residential            R-2
Suburban Residential                    R-3
Suburban Residential                    R-4
Two-Family Residential                  R-10
Urban Residential                       R-12
Commercial Districts
Suburban Office and Institutional       SO
Neighborhood Commercial                 NC
Community Commercial                    CC
Central Community Commercial            CCC
Central Business                        CB
Industrial Districts
Restricted Industrial                   RI
Limited Industrial                      LI
General Industrial                      GI
Office, Laboratory and Research         OLR
Planned Districts
Planned Residential District            PRD
Planned Shopping Center                 PSC
Planned Highway Service                 PHS
Planned Industrial Park                 PIP
Planned Unit Development                PUD
Planned Office, Laboratory and Research POLR
Special Districts
Floodplain                              FP
 
   (b)   Legend. There shall be provided, on the Zoning District Map, a legend
which shall list the name and symbol for each zoning district. In lieu of a
symbol, a color or black and white pattern may be used to identify each zoning
district, as indicated in the legend.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989; Ord. 08-2013, passed 9-9-2013)
§ 1238.05 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (a)   In General. The boundaries of the zoning districts are shown on the
Zoning District Map. The Zoning District Map, and all notations, references and
other information shown thereon are a part of this Zoning Code and have the
same force and effect as if the Zoning District Map, and all the notations,
references and other information shown thereon, were all fully set forth or
described herein. A certified copy of the Zoning District Map is properly
attested and is on file with the Fiscal Officer.
   (b)   Rules for Determination of Boundaries. When uncertainty exists with
respect to the boundaries of zoning districts, as shown on the Zoning District
Map, the following rules shall apply.
      (1)   Boundaries Along Rights-of-Way or Watercourses. Where zoning
district boundary lines are indicated as approximately following the centerline
of a street, highway, alley, railroad easement or other right-of-way, or a
river, creek or other watercourse, such centerline shall be the zoning district
boundary.
      (2)   Boundaries Along Lot Lines. Where zoning district boundary lines
are indicated as approximately following a lot line, such lot line shall be the
zoning district boundary.
      (3)   Boundaries Parallel to Right-of-Way Centerlines or Property Lines.
Where zoning district boundary lines are indicated as being approximately
parallel to a right-of-way centerline or a property line, such zoning district
boundary lines shall be parallel thereto and, in the absence of a specified
dimension on the Map, at such scaled distance therefrom as indicated on the
Zoning District Map.
      (4)   Boundaries in Conflict with Zoning District Map. When the actual
street or lot layout existing on the ground is in conflict with that shown on
the Zoning District Map, the party alleging that such a conflict exists shall
furnish an actual survey for interpretation by Council.
      (5)   Extending District Boundaries for Vacated Rights-of-Way. Whenever
any street, alley or other public way is vacated by official action of Council,
the zoning district adjoining each side of such vacation, and all area included
in the vacation, shall then and thenceforth be subject to all appropriate
regulations of the extended district or districts.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
CHAPTER 1240: RURAL DISTRICT
Section
1240.01   Permitted uses.
1240.02   Conditional uses.
1240.03   Development standards.
Cross-reference:
   Adult entertainment businesses, see
Ch. 1284
   General development standards, see
Ch. 1272
   Landscaping, see
Ch. 1278
   Off-street parking and loading, see
Ch. 1282
   Signs, see
Ch. 1280
   Special districts, see
Ch. 1276
   Special permits, see
Ch. 1274
Statutory reference:
   Municipal zoning in general, see R.C. §§ 713.06 et seq.
§ 1240.01 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted in the Rural District.
   (a)   Agriculture.
      (1)   Agriculture uses, including farming, dairying, pasturage,
horticulture, floriculture, viticulture and animal and poultry husbandry;
      (2)   Farm dwelling structures;
      (3)   Farm labor quarters for laborers working on the premises; and
      (4)   Roadside stands offering for sale only farm products produced on
the premises.
   (b)   Dwelling Structures. One-family dwelling structures. A lot of record
on the date of adoption of this Zoning Code may be subdivided in accordance
with the subdivision regulations to provide up to four residential lots,
provided that the remaining portion of the lot is five acres or more.
   (c)   Home Occupations. Home occupations in association with a permitted
dwelling and in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 1272.
   (d)   Accessory Buildings and Uses. Accessory buildings and uses in
association with agriculture or permitted dwellings as specified in §
1272.05 , including noncommercial guest housing, provided the lot is five acres
or more.
   (e)   Schools and Parks.
      (1)   Public or private schools offering general educational courses and
having no rooms regularly used for the housing or sleeping of students; and
      (2)   Parks, playgrounds and playfields.
   (f)   Religious Uses. A church or other place of worship, provided it
occupies a lot of not less than five acres.
   (g)   Storage and Processing of Agricultural Products. Grain elevators,
mills or other facilities for the storage, sorting or other preliminary
processing of agricultural products, except that commercial grain elevator
operations shall not be permitted. Storage facilities shall not be within 50
feet of a side or rear lot line, except when along a railroad right-of-way.
Processing facilities shall not be within 100 feet of a side of rear lot line,
except when along a railroad right-of-way.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1240.02 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted in the Rural District subject to
approval by Council.
   (a)   Mobile Homes. A mobile home or house trailer is permitted for a period
not to exceed 18 months.
   (b)   Private Schools or Colleges. A private school or college, with
students in residence is permitted; provided it occupies a lot of not less than
ten acres or more and provided there is one acre or more per 25 day students,
and one acre or more per 15 resident students.
   (c)   Kindergarten or Child Care. Kindergarten or child care is permitted as
an accessory use of a dwelling or as a principal use of the lot; provided it
occupies a lot of not less than one acre and provided there is an outdoor play
area of 200 square feet or more per child. Such play area shall be arranged in
accordance with the provisions of this district for accessory uses and shall be
enclosed with a chain-link fence or its equivalent in strength and protective
character, to a height of four feet, but not more than six feet.
   (d)   Cemeteries. Cemeteries hereafter established, following the adoption
of this Zoning Code, shall occupy a parcel of not less than 40 acres, excepting
those parcels added to an existing cemetery, which may be less than 40 acres.
Interment shall not be within 100 feet of any property line. A mausoleum,
crematory or other structure shall not be within 300 feet of any property line.
   (e)   Associated Sales. Associated sales are permitted as an accessory to
and in association with an agricultural permitted use, with such associated
sales to cease upon cessation of the agricultural activity. Associated sales
shall include, but are not limited to, garden supplies with a nursery or
greenhouse, milk products with a dairy, or imported produce with a permitted
produce stand.
   (f)   Care and Boarding of Animals. Veterinarian offices, animal hospitals,
kennels or other facilities for the care or boarding of animals, are permitted,
provided that they occupy a lot of not less than five acres and provided that a
building pen or other enclosure so used shall not be within 200 feet of any
property line.
   (g)   Commercial Grain Elevator Operations. Commercial grain elevator
operations are permitted, provided that the Planning and Zoning Commission
determines that adequate lot area is available for such an operation.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1240.03 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   In addition to the provisions of
Chapter 1272, the following standards for the arrangement and development of
land and buildings are required in the Rural District.
   (a)   Lot Area and Coverage.
      (1)   For agricultural purposes, in the determination of accessory and
associated uses, the lot area shall be five acres or more, but this shall not
exclude the agricultural use of any smaller lot.
      (2)   For each dwelling unit there shall be a lot area of not less than
40,000 square feet.
      (3)   For each permitted use and conditional use the lot area shall be
adequate to meet the sanitation requirements of the County Board of Health, but
shall not be less than that prescribed for such use.
      (4)   Only one principal use shall be permitted on a lot, and such lot
shall not be covered more than 20% by structure.
   (b)   Lot Width. For a one-family dwelling, there shall be a lot width of
150 feet or more at the front line of the dwelling, and such lot shall have
access to and abut on a public right-of-way for a distance of 60 feet or more.
   (c)   Side Yards. For dwellings or associated accessory buildings there
shall be a total of side yards of 25 feet or more, with a minimum of eight feet
on one side. For conditional uses there shall be a side yard of not less than
25 feet, except when a larger side yard is required for such use by this Zoning
Code.
   (d)   Rear Yards. For main buildings, there shall be a rear yard of 20% or
more of the lot depth, except that a rear yard of more than 50 feet shall not
be required.
   (e)   Maximum Height. No dwelling structure shall exceed 35 feet in height.
The maximum height for other structures shall not exceed a safe height as
determined by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
CHAPTER 1242: RESTRICTED SUBURBAN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
Section
1242.01   Permitted uses.
1242.02   Development standards.
Cross-reference:
   Adult entertainment businesses, see
Ch. 1284
   General development standards, see
Ch. 1272
   Landscaping, see
Ch. 1278
   Off-street parking and loading, see
Ch. 1282
   Signs, see
Ch. 1280
   Special districts, see
Ch. 1276
   Special permits, see
Ch. 1274
Statutory reference:
   Municipal zoning in general, see R.C. §§ 713.06 et seq.
§ 1242.01 PERMITTED USES.
   Land and buildings in the Restricted Suburban Residential District shall be
used only for the following purposes.
   (a)   Dwelling Structures. One-family structures.
   (b)   Home Occupations. Home occupations in association with a permitted
dwelling and in accordance with the provisions of §
1242.02 and
Chapter 1272.
   (c)   Accessory Buildings and Uses.
      (1)   Accessory buildings and uses in association with permitted
dwellings, as specified in §
1242.02 and
Chapter 1272; and
      (2)   Domestic servants quarters (employed on the premises).
   (d)   Public Schools and Parks.
      (1)   Public schools offering general educational courses and having no
rooms regularly used for housing or sleeping of students; and
      (2)   Parks, playgrounds and playfields.
   (e)   Private Schools. Private schools offering general educational courses
similar to those ordinarily given in public schools and having no rooms
regularly used for housing or sleeping of students, provided that such school
it occupies a lot of not less than five acres.
   (f)   Religious Uses. A church or other place of worship, provided it
occupies a lot of not less than five acres.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1242.02 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   In addition to the provisions of
Chapter 1272, the following standards for the arrangement and development of
land and buildings are required in the Restricted Suburban Residential
District.
   (a)   Lot Area and Coverage.
      (1)   For each dwelling unit there shall be a lot area of not less than
40,000 square feet.
      (2)   For each permitted use and conditional use the lot area shall be
adequate to meet the sanitation requirements of the County Board of Health, but
shall not be less than that prescribed for such use.
      (3)   One principal use shall be permitted on a lot and such lot shall
not be covered more than 20% by structure.
   (b)   Lot Width. For a one-family dwelling there shall be a lot width of 150
feet or more at the front line of the dwelling, and such lot shall have access
to and abut on a public right-of-way for a distance of 60 feet or more. For a
conditional use, the lot width shall be adequate to meet the development
standards of the Restricted Suburban Residential District.
   (c)   Side Yards. For dwellings or associated accessory buildings there
shall be a total of side yards of 25 feet or more, with a minimum of eight feet
on one side. For a conditional use, except dwellings and accessory structures
thereto, there shall be a side yard of 25 feet or more on each side of a
building.
   (d)   Rear Yards. For main buildings, there shall be a rear yard of 20% or
more of the lot depth, except that a rear yard of more than 50 feet shall not
be required.
   (e)   Maximum Height. No dwelling structure shall exceed 35 feet in height.
The maximum height for other structures shall not exceed a safe height as
determined by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
CHAPTER 1244: LIMITED SUBURBAN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
Section
1244.01   Permitted uses.
1244.02   Conditional use.
1244.03   Development standards.
Cross-reference:
   Adult entertainment businesses, see
Ch. 1284
   General development standards, see
Ch. 1272
   Landscaping, see
Ch. 1278
   Off-street parking and loading, see
Ch. 1282
   Signs, see
Ch. 1280
   Special districts, see
Ch. 1276
   Special permits, see
Ch. 1274
Statutory reference:
   Municipal zoning in general, see R.C. §§ 713.06 et seq.
§ 1244.01 PERMITTED USES.
   Land and buildings in the Limited Suburban Residential District shall be
used only for the following purposes.
   (a)   Dwelling Structures. One-family dwelling structures.
   (b)   Home Occupations. Home occupations in association with a permitted
dwelling, and in accordance with the provisions of §
1244.03 and
Chapter 1272.
   (c)   Accessory Buildings and Uses. Accessory buildings and uses in
association with permitted dwellings as specified in §
1244.03 and
Chapter 1272.
   (d)   Public Schools and Parks.
      (1)   Public schools offering general educational courses and having no
rooms regularly used for housing or sleeping of students; and
      (2)   Parks, playgrounds and playfields.
   (e)   Private Schools. Private schools offering general educational courses
similar to those ordinarily given in public schools and having no rooms
regularly used for housing or sleeping of students, provided that such school
occupies a lot of not less than five acres.
   (f)   Religious Uses. A church or other place of worship, provided it
occupies a lot of not less than five acres.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1244.02 CONDITIONAL USE.
   The following uses shall be allowed in the Limited Suburban Residential
District subject to approval in accordance with §
1244.03 and
Chapter 1272: Kindergarten or child care, as an accessory use of a dwelling.
   (a)   There shall be an outdoor play area of 200 square feet or more per
child.
   (b)   Such play area shall be arranged in accordance with the provisions of
this district for accessory uses and shall be enclosed with a chain-link fence,
or its equivalent in strength and protective character, to a height of four
feet, but not more than six feet.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1244.03 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   In addition to the provisions of
Chapter 1272, the following standards for the arrangement and development of
land and buildings are required in the Limited Suburban Residential District.
   (a)   Lot Area and Coverage.
      (1)   For each dwelling unit there shall be a lot area of not less than
20,000 square feet.
      (2)   For all other permitted uses and conditional uses, the lot area
shall be adequate to meet the sanitation requirements of the County Board of
Health, but shall not be less than that prescribed for such use.
      (3)   Only one principal use shall be permitted on a lot, and such lot
shall not be covered more than 20% by structure.
   (b)   Lot Width. For a one-family dwelling there shall be a lot width of 100
feet or more at the front line of the dwelling, and such lot shall have access
to and abut on a public right-of-way for a distance of 60 feet or more. For a
conditional use, the lot width shall be adequate to meet the development
standards of the Limited Suburban Residential District.
   (c)   Side Yards. For dwellings or associated accessory buildings there
shall be a total of side yards of 20 feet or more, with a minimum of eight feet
on one side. For a conditional use, except dwellings and accessory structures
thereto, there shall be a side yard of 25 feet or more on each side of a
building.
   (d)   Rear Yards. For main buildings there shall be a rear yard of 20% or
more of the lot depth, except that a rear yard of more than 50 feet shall not
be required.
   (e)   Maximum Height. No dwelling structure shall exceed 35 feet in height.
The maximum height for other structures shall not exceed a safe height as
determined by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
CHAPTER 1246: R-3 SUBURBAN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
Section
1246.01   Permitted uses.
1246.02   Conditional use.
1246.03   Development standards.
Cross-reference:
   Adult entertainment businesses, see
Ch. 1284
   General development standards, see
Ch. 1272
   Landscaping, see
Ch. 1278
   Off-street parking and loading, see
Ch. 1282
   Signs, see
Ch. 1280
   Special districts, see
Ch. 1276
   Special permits, see
Ch. 1274
Statutory reference:
   Municipal zoning in general, see R.C. §§ 713.06 et seq.
§ 1246.01 PERMITTED USES.
   Land and buildings in the R-3 Suburban Residential District shall be used
only for the following purposes.
   (a)   Dwelling Structures. One-family dwelling structures.
   (b)   Home Occupations. Home occupations in association with a permitted
dwelling, and in accordance with the provisions of §
1246.03 and
Chapter 1272.
   (c)   Accessory Buildings and Uses. Accessory buildings and uses in
association with permitted dwellings as specified in §
1246.03 and
Chapter 1272.
   (d)   Public Schools. Public schools offering general educational courses
and having no rooms regularly used for housing or sleeping of students.
   (e)   Private Schools. Private schools offering general educational courses
similar to those ordinarily given in public schools and having no room
regularly used for housing or sleeping of students; provided that such school
occupies a lot of not less than five acres.
   (f)   Religious Uses. A church or other place of worship; provided it
occupies a lot of not less than five acres and there is one acre or more per
100 seats or similar accommodations in the main assembly area.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1246.02 CONDITIONAL USE.
   The following uses shall be allowed in the R-3 Suburban Residential District
subject to approval in accordance with §
1246.03 and
Chapter 1272: Kindergarten or child care, as an accessory use of a dwelling.
   (a)   There shall be an outdoor play area of 200 square feet or more per
child.
   (b)   Such play area shall be arranged in accordance with the provisions of
this district for accessory uses and shall be enclosed with a chain-link fence
or its equivalent in strength and protective character, to a height of four
feet, but not more than six feet.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1246.03 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   In addition to the provisions of
Chapter 1272, the following standards for the arrangement and development of
land and buildings are required in the R-3 Suburban Residential District.
   (a)   Lot Area and Coverage.
      (1)   For each dwelling unit there shall be a lot area of not less than
10,000 square feet. The average net density, exclusive of public rights-of-way,
for an area to be platted into single-family lots, shall not exceed three
dwelling units per acre.
      (2)   For all other permitted uses and conditional uses, the lot area
shall be adequate to meet the sanitation requirements of the County Board of
Health, but shall not be less than that prescribed for such use.
      (3)   Only one principal use shall be permitted on a lot, and such lot
shall not be covered more than 30% by structure.
   (b)   Lot Width. For a dwelling there shall be a lot width of 80 feet or
more at the front line of the dwelling, and such lot shall have access to and
abut on a public right-of-way for a distance of 50 feet or more. For a
conditional use the lot width shall be adequate to meet the development
standards of the R-3 District.
   (c)   Side Yards. For dwellings or associated accessory buildings there
shall be a total of side yards of 18 feet or more, with a minimum of eight feet
on one side.
   (d)   Rear Yards. For main buildings there shall be a rear yard of 25% or
more of the lot depth, except that a rear yard of more than 50 feet shall not
be required.
   (e)   Maximum Height. No dwelling structure shall exceed 35 feet in height.
The maximum height for other structures shall not exceed a safe height as
determined by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
CHAPTER 1248: R-4 SUBURBAN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
Section
1248.01   Permitted uses.
1248.02   Conditional use.
1248.03   Development standards generally.
1248.04   Development standards for two-family dwelling structures.
1248.05   Development standards for three- through eight-family dwelling
structures.
Cross-reference:
   Adult entertainment businesses, see
Ch. 1284
   General development standards, see
Ch. 1272
   Landscaping, see
Ch. 1278
   Off-street parking and loading, see
Ch. 1282
   Signs, see
Ch. 1280
   Special districts, see
Ch. 1276
   Special permits, see
Ch. 1274
Statutory reference:
   Municipal zoning in general, see R.C. §§ 713.06 et seq.
§ 1248.01 PERMITTED USES.
   Land and buildings in the R-4 Suburban Residential District shall be used
only for the following purposes.
   (a)   Dwelling Structures. One-family dwelling structures. Two-family
dwelling structures and up to and including eight-family dwelling structures
may be permitted, provided that:
      (1)   An acceptable site development plan and subdivision plat are
submitted and are reviewed and approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission;
      (2)   Such plan conforms to the development standards set forth in §
1248.03 and
Chapter 1272; and
      (3)   The average net density, exclusive of public rights-of-way, for an
area to be developed and/or platted under the R-4 Suburban Residential
District, shall not exceed four dwelling units per acre.
   (b)   Home Occupations. Home occupations in association with a permitted
dwelling and in accordance with the provisions of §
1272.04.
   (c)   Accessory Buildings and Uses. Accessory buildings and uses in
association with permitted dwellings, as specified in §
1248.03 and
Chapter 1272.
   (d)   Public Schools. Public schools offering general educational courses
and having no rooms regularly used for housing or sleeping of students.
   (e)   Private Schools. Private schools offering general educational courses
similar to those ordinarily given in public schools and having no rooms
regularly used for housing or sleeping of students, provided that such school
occupies a lot of not less than five acres.
   (f)   Religious Uses. A church or other place of worship, provided it
occupies a lot of not less than five acres and there is one acre or more per
100 seats or similar accommodations in the main assembly area.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1248.02 CONDITIONAL USE.
   The following uses shall be allowed in the R-4 Suburban Residential District
subject to approval in accordance with §
1232.02. Kindergarten or child care as an accessory use of a dwelling.
   (a)   There shall be an outdoor play area of 200 square feet or more per
child.
   (b)   Such play area shall be arranged in accordance with the provisions of
this district for accessory uses and shall be enclosed with a chain-link fence,
or its equivalent in strength and protective character, to a height of four
feet, but not more than six feet.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1248.03 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS GENERALLY.
   In addition to the provisions of
Chapter 1272, the following standards for the arrangement and development of
land and buildings are required in the R-4 Suburban Residential District.
   (a)   Lot Area and Coverage.
      (1)   For each dwelling unit there shall be a lot area of not less than
10,000 square feet.
      (2)   For all other permitted uses and conditional uses the lot area
shall be adequate to meet the sanitation requirements of the County Board of
Health, but shall not be less than that prescribed for such use.
      (3)   Only one principal use shall be permitted on a lot, and such lot
shall not be covered more than 25% by structure.
   (b)   Lot Width. For a single-family dwelling there shall be a lot width of
75 feet or more at the front line of the dwelling and such lot shall have
access to and abut on a public right-of-way for a distance of 50 feet or more.
For a conditional use the lot width shall be adequate to meet the development
standards of the R-4 District.
   (c)   Side Yards. For single-family dwellings or associated accessory
buildings there shall be a total of side yards of 15 feet or more, with a
minimum of five feet on one side. For conditional uses, except dwellings and
accessory structures thereto, there shall be a side yard of 25 feet or more on
each side of a building.
   (d)   Rear Yards. For main buildings there shall be a rear yard of 20% or
more of the lot depth, except that a rear yard of more than 50 feet shall be
required.
   (e)   Maximum Height. No dwelling structure shall exceed 35 feet in height.
The maximum height for other structures shall not exceed a safe height as
determined by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1248.04 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR TWO-FAMILY DWELLING STRUCTURES.
   For two-family dwelling structures, the following standards shall apply.
   (a)   Lot Area and Coverage. For each dwelling unit there shall be a lot
area of not less than 8,500 square feet. Such lot shall not be covered more
than 20% by structure.
   (b)   Lot Width. The minimum width for a two-family lot shall be 100 feet
and the lot shall have access to and abut on a public right-of-way for a
distance of 60 feet or more.
   (c)   Side Yards. For a two-family structure there shall be a total of side
yards of 20 feet and a minimum side yard of eight feet on one side.
   (d)   Rear Yards. A minimum rear yard of 30 feet shall be required.
   (e)   Maximum Height. No dwelling structure shall exceed 35 feet in height.
The maximum height for other structures shall not exceed a safe height as
determined by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1248.05 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR THREE- THROUGH EIGHT-FAMILY DWELLING
STRUCTURES.
   For three- through eight-family dwelling structures, the following standards
shall apply.
   (a)   Lot Area. For each dwelling unit there shall be a lot area of 8,500
square feet.
   (b)   Lot Width. The minimum lot width shall be 150 feet.
   (c)   Side and Rear Yards. Structures shall be set back from all side and
rear property lines a minimum of 25 feet.
   (d)   Maximum Height. No dwelling structure shall exceed 35 feet in height.
The maximum height for other structures shall not exceed a safe height as
determined by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (e)   Traffic and Parking Concept. A proposed traffic circulation and
parking concept shall be shown on the development plan, indicating ingress and
egress points, resident and guest parking and provision for service vehicles.
   (f)   Open Space Concept. A proposed open space concept shall be shown on
the development plan, indicating proposed recreational or other amenities, such
as operation and maintenance of such areas.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
CHAPTER 1250: TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
Section
1250.01   Permitted uses.
1250.02   Conditional use.
1250.03   Development standards.
Cross-reference:
   Adult entertainment businesses, see
Ch. 1284
   General development standards, see
Ch. 1272
   Landscaping, see
Ch. 1278
   Off-street parking and loading, see
Ch. 1282
   Signs, see
Ch. 1280
   Special districts, see
Ch. 1276
   Special permits, see
Ch. 1274
Statutory reference:
   Municipal zoning in general, see R.C. §§ 713.06 et seq.
§ 1250.01 PERMITTED USES.
   Land and buildings in the Two-Family Residential District shall be used for
the following purposes:
   (a)   Dwelling Structures. Two-family dwelling structures.
   (b)   Home Occupations. Home occupations in association with a permitted
dwelling and in accordance with the provisions of §
1250.03 and
Chapter 1272.
   (c)   Accessory Buildings and Uses. Accessory buildings and uses in
association with permitted dwellings, as specified in §
1250.03 and
Chapter 1272.
   (d)   Public Schools. Public schools offering general educational courses
and having no rooms regularly used for housing or sleeping of students.
   (e)   Private Schools. Private schools offering general educational courses
similar to those ordinarily given in public schools and having no rooms
regularly used for housing or sleeping of students, provided that such school
occupies a lot of not less than five acres.
   (f)   Religious Uses. A church or other place of worship, provided it
occupies a lot of not less than five acres and there is one acre or more per
100 seats or similar accommodations in the main assembly area.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1250.02 CONDITIONAL USE.
   The following use shall be allowed in the Two-Family Residential District
subject to approval in accordance with §
1232.02: Kindergarten or child care as an accessory use of a dwelling.
   (a)   There shall be an outdoor play area of 200 square feet or more per
child.
   (b)   Such play area shall be arranged in accordance with the provisions of
this District for accessory uses and shall be enclosed with a chain-link fence,
or its equivalent in strength and protective character, to a height of four
feet, but not more than six feet.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1250.03 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   In addition to the provisions of
Chapter 1272, the following standards for the arrangement and development of
land and buildings are required in the Two-Family Residential District.
   (a)   Lot Area and Coverage. For each dwelling unit there shall be a lot
area not less than 4,500 square feet. Only one principal use shall be permitted
on a lot, and such lot shall not be covered more than 30% by structure.
   (b)   Lot Width. For a two-family lot there shall be a lot width of 80 feet
or more at the front line of the dwelling, and such lot shall have access to
and abut on a public right-of-way for a distance of 50 feet or more. For a
conditional use, the lot width shall be adequate to meet the development
standards for the Two-Family Residential District.
   (c)   Side Yards. For dwellings or associated accessory buildings there
shall be a total of side yards of 15 feet or more, with a minimum of five feet
on one side.
   (d)   Rear Yards. For main buildings there shall be a rear yard of 25% or
more of the lot depth, except that a rear yard of more than 50 feet shall not
be required.
   (e)   Maximum Height. No dwelling structure shall exceed 35 feet in height.
The maximum height for other structures shall not exceed a safe height as
determined by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (f)   Reduction of Development Standards. It is encouraged that two-family
developments be done in a planned, coordinated fashion with provision for open
space and play areas to be included within the site development concept. At the
applicant’s option, the lot area per dwelling unit may be reduced to 4,000
square feet; provided that a useable centralized open space or play area is
provided at the ratio of 250 square feet per dwelling unit. This reduction in
lot area and lot frontage and the provision for an open space concept shall be
subject to review and approval by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
CHAPTER 1252: URBAN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
Section
1252.01   Permitted uses.
1252.02   Conditional uses.
1252.03   Development standards.
Cross-reference:
   Adult entertainment businesses, see
Ch. 1284
   General development standards, see
Ch. 1272
   Landscaping, see
Ch. 1278
   Off-street parking and loading, see
Ch. 1282
   Signs, see
Ch. 1280
   Special districts, see
Ch. 1276
   Special permits, see
Ch. 1274
Statutory reference:
   Municipal zoning in general, see R.C. §§ 713.06 et seq.
§ 1252.01 PERMITTED USES.
   Land and buildings in the Urban Residential District shall be used only for
the following purposes.
   (a)   Dwelling Structures. Multiple-family structures having three or more
dwelling units per structure.
   (b)   Home Occupations. Home occupations in association with a permitted
dwelling and in accordance with the provisions of §
1252.03 and
Chapter 1272.
   (c)   Accessory Buildings and Uses. Accessory buildings and uses in
association with permitted dwellings as specified in §
1252.03 and
Chapter 1272.
   (d)   Public Schools and Parks.
      (1)   Public schools offering general educational courses and having no
rooms regularly used for housing or sleeping of students; and
      (2)   Parks, playgrounds and playfields.
   (e)   Private Schools. Private schools offering general educational courses
similar to those ordinarily given in public schools and having no rooms
regularly used for housing or sleeping of students, provided that such school
occupies a lot of not less than five acres.
   (f)   Religious Uses. A church or other place of worship, provided it
occupies a lot of not less than five acres.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1252.02 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses shall be allowed in the Urban Residential District,
subject to approval in accordance with §
1232.02:
   (a)   Two-family structures;
   (b)   Kindergarten or child care as an accessory use of a dwelling. There
shall be an outdoor play area of 200 square feet or more per child. Such play
area shall be arranged in accordance with the provisions of this district for
accessory uses and shall be enclosed with a chain-link fence, or its equivalent
in strength and protective character, to a height of four feet, but not more
than six feet; and
   (c)   Those uses incidental and accessory to multiple-family dwellings,
including recreational facilities, swimming pools and rental offices, to be
part of a multiple-family development.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1252.03 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   In addition to the provisions of
Chapter 1272, the following standards for the arrangement and development of
land and buildings are required in the Urban Residential District.
   (a)   Lot Area and Coverage.
      (1)   For each multiple-family dwelling unit there shall be a minimum net
lot area of 3,600 square feet. Net lot area does not include publicly dedicated
street rights-of-way.
      (2)   The minimum lot area for development of multiple-family uses shall
be 10,000 square feet.
      (3)   For each two-family lot there shall be a lot area of not less than
4,500 square feet per dwelling unit.
   (b)   Lot Width.
      (1)   The lot width shall be 125 feet on a publicly dedicated right-of-
way at the front building line.
      (2)   Two-family lots shall have a minimum lot width of 80 feet.
      (3)   For a conditional use the lot width shall be adequate to meet the
development standards of the Urban Residential District.
   (c)   Side and Rear Yards.
      (1)   Multiple-family structures shall be set back from all side and rear
property lines a minimum of 25 feet.
      (2)   For two-family lots a minimum side yard of five feet shall be
maintained.
      (3)   The minimum sum of side yards shall equal 15 feet and the minimum
rear yard for two- family lots shall be 25% of the lot depth, except that a
rear yard of more than 50 feet shall not be required.
   (d)   Maximum Height. No dwelling structure shall exceed 35 feet in height.
The maximum height for other structures shall not exceed a safe height as
determined by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
CHAPTER 1253: PLANNED RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
Section
1253.01   Purpose and intent.
1253.02   Permitted uses.
1253.03   Plan contents and requirements.
1253.04   Review basis.
1253.05   Procedures for approval.
1253.06   Effect of approvals; procedures for modification.
§ 1253.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (a)   Based on the premise that the ultimate quality of a particular
environment is determined not only by the type and arrangement of land uses but
also the way in which such uses are developed, the procedures outlined in this
chapter are designed to:
      (1)   Encourage imaginative site and architectural design;
      (2)   Permit creation of flexible development standards that respect the
unique characteristics of the site and surrounding uses;
      (3)   Result in more efficient and beneficial use of land; and
      (4)   Regulate development and redevelopment of individual parcels within
already improved areas.
   (b)   The process for achieving the above purpose and intent is to require
the submission and approval of a Preliminary Plan for the total proposed
development and the submission and approval of a Development Plan for all or
any part of the area defined in the Preliminary Plan prior to obtaining a
Zoning Certificate as part of the approval of the construction of any portion
of the area. As part of the Preliminary Plan, the applicant must prepare and
submit a Development Standards Text establishing the standards to be applied to
the proposed development. As part of the final Development Plan, the applicant
must substantially comply with the previously approved Development Standards
Text or submit as part of the Development Plan a modified Development Standards
Text for approval by Village Council.
(Ord. 08-2013, passed 9-9-2013)
§ 1253.02 PERMITTED USES.
   Land and buildings in the Planned Residential District (PRD) shall be used
only for the following purposes:
   (a)   Residential dwellings: single-family dwellings and accessory uses and
buildings in association with a permitted dwelling;
   (b)   Open space;
   (c)   Public uses: parks, playgrounds, recreation and community center
buildings and grounds, golf courses, public swimming pools, tennis courts and
similar recreational uses;
   (d)   Accessory buildings and uses in association with a permitted single-
family residential structure;
   (e)   Home occupations associated with a principal use and in accordance
with
Chapter 1272; and
   (f)   The Village Council may permit additional uses that are compatible
with the character of the proposed development and the intent and purpose of
the Planned Residential District.
(Ord. 08-2013, passed 9-9-2013)
§ 1253.03 PLAN CONTENTS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   As part of the request for rezoning to a Planned Residential District,
a Preliminary Plan must
be submitted to the Planning and Zoning Commission along with a Development
Standards Text of all applicable standards for the proposed development. A
Zoning Certificate will not be issued for any site or sites until a Development
Plan is approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission and found in conformance
with the adopted Preliminary Plan and Development Standards Text.
      (1)   Preliminary Plan. The Preliminary Plan is a conceptual plan
submitted at the time of a request for rezoning generally describing the
proposed uses for the site to be rezoned and their relationship with
surrounding properties and uses. The Preliminary Plan shall contain the
following elements:
         A.   A topographic map of the site and adjacent property showing
existing natural features including wooded areas and major trees. A description
of how the proposed development has planned to utilize the existing site,
identifying the changes to the existing site grading and noting major trees
that will be removed as part of the proposed development;
         B.   A schematic plan showing the general development of the tract,
location of existing and proposed structures, parking lot layout and other
development features including the location of all out parcels;
         C.   An engineering feasibility statement in sufficient detail to
indicate how the proposed development will be serviced with water, sanitary
sewer and storm drainage facilities;
         D.   The proposed traffic circulation pattern showing public and
private streets and other transportation facilities, including major pedestrian
routes, with evidence through a traffic study that the proposed development
will not adversely impact existing transportation facilities;
         E.   A conceptual landscaping plan that shows the ability of the
proposed development to meet all the aspects of
Chapter 1278;
         F.   A proposed schedule or phasing of development of the site;
         G.   Evidence that the applicant has sufficient control over the land
to accomplish proposed and required land improvements; and
         H.   Any additional information required by the Planning and Zoning
Commission necessary to determine that the proposed development meets the
intent and purposes of the planned district.
      (2)   Development Standards Text. A Development Standards Text shall be
submitted as part of the Preliminary Plan and shall be narrative and graphics,
as necessary, in order to detail the development standards to be applied to the
development concept described in the Preliminary Plan. Unless specifically
modified by the Development Standards Text, the standards established by the
Zoning Code and the subdivision regulations shall apply to the proposed
development.
      (3)   Development Plan. Following approval of the Preliminary Plan and
prior to issuance of a Zoning Certificate, a Development Plan shall be
submitted to the Planning and Zoning Commission for the part of the area
defined in the Preliminary Plan. The Development Plan is a detailed Site Plan
that shall contain the following information and adhere to the Development
Standards Text approved as part of the Preliminary Plan:
         A.   Site Survey. On a survey, show boundary information, existing and
proposed development, existing and proposed topography, existing and proposed
easements, rights-of-way and utilities;
         B.   Setbacks. The Site Plan shall indicate building, service areas,
parking lot and signage setbacks including front yard, rear yard and side yard
areas and shall be in accordance with the approved Development Standards Text;
         C.   Modifications of Preliminary Plan or Development Standards Text.
Any desired modifications of the Development Standards Text or Plan approved as
part of the Preliminary Plan shall be so indicated in a modified Development
Standards Text document or Preliminary Plan;
         D.   Height Requirements. Maximum height requirements, including
mechanical areas, parapets, and the like, shall be made per the Development
Standards Text requirements and shown on building front, rear and side
elevation drawings;
         E.   Parking and Loading. All parking and loading spaces shall be
shown including typical dimensions of parking stalls, aisles and loading
spaces, size, number of spaces and general location shall also be governed by
the Development Standards Text;
         F.   Waste and Refuse. Handling of waste and refuse materials shall be
indicated and described by the Development Standards Text and shall include
appropriate screening and type of containerization;
         G.   Circulation. All major circulation routes, including arterial,
adjacent curb cuts, collector and local streets shall be indicated including
rights-of-way, dimensions, pavement widths and intersection improvements. All
driveways/curb cuts shall be indicated, including major aisle ways and service
routes. Major pedestrian circulation routes shall also be indicated including
dimensions of path and pedestrian crossings, and the like, plus any attempts at
separating vehicular and pedestrian/recreation movement;
         H.   Landscaping. As part of the Development Plan, proposed
landscaping shall be shown including the general landscaping pattern and type
of materials, mounding and fencing. Landscaping may vary in density, spacing
and other treatment to reflect variations in topography, existing landscaping
or adjacent land uses and conform to
Chapter 1278. Landscape features shall be shown as well as planning dimensions,
height, d.b.h. and type of plant materials per the Development Standards Text;
         I.   Signage and Graphics. All signage and graphics shall comply with
the Development Standards Text. Letter and other graphic size, sign material,
shape, color and illumination (internal only) shall be indicated. This includes
dimensions of all ground and wall signage as well as distances from rights-of-
way and intensity of illumination. Directional signage shall also be indicated;
         J.   Lighting. All exterior lighting fixtures shall be shown including
parking lot lighting, street walkway or pedestrian lighting, walkway accent
lighting and building accent lighting. Lighting intensity and installation
height shall be indicated;
         K.   Accessory Structures, Decks, Patios and Fencing. All accessory
structures, decks, patios and fences shall conform to the Development Standards
Text and appropriate materials, heights, location and style indicated; and
         L.   Architectural Treatment. As part of the Development Plan front,
rear and side building elevations shall be shown in accordance with the
Development Standards Text indicated building material, color and height. Color
material samples shall also be made for inspection.
(Ord. 08-2013, passed 9-9-2013)
§ 1253.04 REVIEW BASIS.
   (a)   Preliminary Plan. The basis for approval of the Preliminary Plan shall
be:
      (1)   The proposed development is consistent with the purpose, intent and
applicable standards of the Zoning Code;
      (2)   The acceptability of setbacks, distances between buildings, yard
space, suitability of open space systems, traffic accessibility and other
elements having a bearing on the overall acceptability of the Preliminary Plan
shall contribute to the orderly development of land within the village;
      (3)   The proposed development is in conformity with any design or site
planning guidelines adopted by the Planning and Zoning Commission; and
      (4)   The plan provides for the coordination and integration of buildings
and open space into one planned district.
   (b)   Development Plan. Basis for approval of a Development Plan shall be:
      (1)   The plan is complete in all respects relative to the requirements
set forth in §
1253.05(a);
      (2)   The Development Plan complies with the Preliminary Plan and
Development Standards Text and any modifications thereof by Village Council;
and
      (3)   All engineering issues have been resolved to the satisfaction of
the appropriate municipal staff and that final approval of the Development Plan
is subject to the acceptance of final engineering of all phases of the
development.
(Ord. 08-2013, passed 9-9-2013)
§ 1253.05 PROCEDURES FOR APPROVAL.
   (a)   Submission of Application for Preliminary Plan.
      (1)   The applicant shall submit the rezoning application along with 20
copies of the proposed Preliminary Plan and Development Standards Text in
accordance with the submission schedule established by the Planning and Zoning
Commission. In order to defray the cost of examination of the rezoning
application and the Preliminary Plan and Development Standards Text and review
by the Planning Commission, the applicant shall pay a fee in accordance with
the fee as stipulated by ordinance. Staff shall circulate the Preliminary Plan
and other comments to appropriate departments in the municipality for review
and comment.
      (2)   Once the applicant has submitted a completed application in
accordance with the submission schedule, staff shall submit the application to
the Planning and Zoning Commission for its review and action at the earlier of
the next regular meeting or special meeting as necessary or requested, of
Planning and Zoning Commission to review the plan and determine whether it
complies with the regulations of this chapter. Planning and Zoning Commission
will forward a recommendation to Council.
      (3)   A Preliminary Plan shall be valid for five years after Council
approval. Construction of any phase of the development must begin within this
period or a new Preliminary Plan is required. Once a final plat is recorded for
any section of the development, the Preliminary Plan shall not expire.
   (b)   Submission of Development Plan.
      (1)   The applicant shall submit an application to the municipality
including the required number of copies of the proposed Development Plan,
Development Standards Text modification if appropriate and any other required
information in accordance with the submission schedule of the Planning and
Zoning Commission. In order to defray the cost of examination of the materials
and review by the Planning and Zoning Commission, the applicant shall pay a fee
in accordance with the fee schedule as stipulated by ordinance.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Planning and Zoning Commission to
review the Development Plan and determine whether it complies with the
Preliminary Plan, Development Standards Text and any applicable regulations of
this chapter. Such determination shall be made at the earlier of the first
regular meeting or special meeting of the Planning and Zoning Commission in
accordance with the submission and hearing schedule established by the
Commission. If the Planning and Zoning Commission finds that the Development
Plan complies in all respects with the applicable regulations of this chapter
and the previously approved Preliminary Plan and Development Standards Text,
the Commission shall approve the plan. Planning and Zoning Commission may
approve Development Plans that have minor modifications from the approved
Preliminary Plan and Development Standards Text. Such modifications shall not
increase the overall density of the site or change the essential character of
the approved plan. If the Planning and Zoning Commission determines that such
proposed modifications significantly alter the approved Preliminary Plan and
Development Standards Text must be resubmitted to Council for approval.
      (3)   In the event the Planning and Zoning Commission does not approve
the plan, each applicant shall be notified in writing of the reason for
disapproval or modification along with the decision of the Planning and Zoning
Commission. Decisions of the Planning and Zoning Commission disapproving the
plan are appealable to Council in accordance with the provisions of
Chapters 1202 and
1234.
(Ord. 08-2013, passed 9-9-2013)
§ 1253.06 EFFECT OF APPROVALS; PROCEDURES FOR MODIFICATION.
   (a)   The Preliminary Plan and Development Standards. Text as approved and
modified by Council shall constitute a Planned Residential Development District
as it applies to the land included in the approved PRD zoning district approved
by Council.
   (b)   Approval. Approval of the PRD Preliminary Plan constitutes approval of
a preliminary subdivision plat as required by
Chapter 1214 of the subdivision regulations.
   (c)   Conformance with the Development Plan. Development shall be in
conformance with the Development Plan and construction site improvements must
be commenced within two years of Planning and Zoning Commission or Council
approval; otherwise, no development of the land shall take place until a new
Development Plan is approved pursuant to this section. Any development
undertaken without such final approval is in violation of this Zoning Code and
an abatable nuisance.
   (d)   Extension of Time. Extensions of the time limits of Preliminary Plan
and Development Standards Text compliance may be approved by resolution of
Council. Extensions of the time limits for the Development Plan and
construction of site improvements may be approved by resolution of Council.
Such approvals shall be given upon a finding of the purpose or necessity for
such extension and evidence of reasonable effort toward the accomplishment of
the Preliminary Plan and Development Standards Text as approved by Council or
the Development Plan as approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
(Ord. 08-2013, passed 9-9-2013)
CHAPTER 1254: SUBURBAN OFFICE AND INSTITUTIONAL DISTRICT
Section
1254.01   Permitted uses.
1254.02   Conditional uses.
1254.03   Development standards.
Cross-reference:
   Adult entertainment businesses, see
Ch. 1284
   General development standards, see
Ch. 1272
   Landscaping, see
Ch. 1278
   Off-street parking and loading, see
Ch. 1282
   Signs, see
Ch. 1280
   Special districts, see
Ch. 1276
   Special permits, see
Ch. 1274
Statutory reference:
   Municipal zoning in general, see R.C. §§ 713.06 et seq.
§ 1254.01 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted in the Suburban Office and
Institutional District.
   (a)   Residential. Dwellings ancillary to permitted institutional uses.
   (b)   Administrative and Business. Administrative offices primarily engaged
in general administration, supervision, purchasing, accounting and other
management functions, and business offices carrying on no retail trade with the
general public and having no stock of goods maintained for sale to customers,
including:
      (1)   Commercial and stock savings banks;
      (2)   Mutual savings banks;
      (3)   Trust companies not engaged in deposit banking;
      (4)   Establishments performing functions closely related to banking;
      (5)   Rediscount and financing institutions for credit agencies other
than banks;
      (6)   Savings and loan associations;
      (7)   Agricultural credit institutions;
      (8)   Personal credit institutions;
      (9)   Business credit institutions;
      (10)   Loan correspondents and brokers;
      (11)   Security brokers, dealers and flotation companies;
      (12)   Commodity contracts brokers and dealers;
      (13)   Security and commodity exchanges;
      (14)   Services allied with the exchange of securities or commodities;
      (15)   Life insurance;
      (16)   Accident and health insurance;
      (17)   Fire, marine and casualty insurance;
      (18)   Surety insurance;
      (19)   Title insurance;
      (20)   Insurance carriers, not elsewhere classified;
      (21)   Insurance agents, brokers and service;
      (22)   Real estate operators (except developers) and lessors;
      (23)   Agents, brokers and managers;
      (24)   Title abstract companies;
      (25)   Subdividers and developers;
      (26)   Operative builders;
      (27)   Combinations of real estate, insurance, loans, law offices;
      (28)   Holding companies;
      (29)   Investment companies;
      (30)   Trusts; and
      (31)   Miscellaneous investing institutions.
   (c)   Professional. Professional offices engaged in providing tangible and
intangible services to the general public, involving both persons and their
possessions, including:
      (1)   Offices of physicians and surgeons;
      (2)   Offices of dentists and dental surgeons;
      (3)   Offices of osteopathic physicians;
      (4)   Offices of chiropractors;
      (5)   Medical and dental laboratories;
      (6)   Health and allied services;
      (7)   Legal services;
      (8)   Engineering and architectural services;
      (9)   Accounting, auditing and bookkeeping services; and
      (10)   Services (professional) not elsewhere classified.
   (d)   Institutions. Institutions providing social, cultural, educational and
health services to member agencies, organizations and individuals or to the
general public, including:
      (1)   Hospitals;
      (2)   Elementary and secondary schools;
      (3)   Colleges, universities, professional schools, junior colleges and
normal schools;
      (4)   Libraries;
      (5)   Museums and art galleries; and
      (6)   Religious organizations.
   (e)   Organizations and Associations. Organizations and associations,
organized on a profit-making or nonprofit-making basis, for the promotion of
membership interests, including:
      (1)   Business associations;
      (2)   Professional membership organizations;
      (3)   Labor unions and similar labor organizations;
      (4)   Civic, social and fraternal associations;
      (5)   Political organizations;
      (6)   Charitable organizations; and
      (7)   Nonprofit membership organizations not elsewhere classified.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1254.02 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses shall be allowed in the Suburban Office and Institutional
District, subject to approval in accordance with §
1232.02.
   (a)   Drive-in or Outdoor Service Facilities. Drive-in or outdoor service
facilities developed in association with a permitted use.
   (b)   Personal Services. Personal services generally involving the care of a
person or his or her apparel, including:
      (1)   Photographic studios, including commercial photography;
      (2)   Beauty shops;
      (3)   Barber shops; and
      (4)   Funeral service establishments and crematories.
   (c)   Educational and Research Establishments. Educational and research
establishments engaged in providing tangible and intangible services to members
of the general public, including:
      (1)   Research, development and testing laboratories;
      (2)   Vocational schools;
      (3)   School and educational services not elsewhere classified; and
      (4)   Nonprofit educational and scientific research agencies.
   (d)   Food and Lodging. Commercial establishments and institutions engaged
in furnishing lodging and meals on a fee basis, including:
      (1)   Eating and drinking places;
      (2)   Rooming and boarding houses; and
      (3)   Organization hotels and lodging houses on a membership basis.
   (e)   Exceptional Uses. Offices of veterinarians and animal hospitals.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1254.03 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   In addition to the provisions of
Chapter 1272, the following standards for the arrangement and development of
land and buildings are required in the Suburban Office and Institutional
District.
   (a)   Lot Size and Coverage. No minimum lot size is required. However, lot
size shall be adequate to provide the yard space required by this section. One
or more main buildings or permitted uses may be placed on a lot. However, no
main or accessory structure shall occupy more than 50% of a lot, nor shall the
total gross floor area exceed 80% of the lot area.
   (b)   Lot Width. No minimum lot width is required. However, all lots shall
abut a street and have adequate width to provide the yard space required by
this section.
   (c)   Side Yards. A side yard shall be required adjacent to a Residential
Zoning District or a Planned Development Zoning District, as listed in §
1238.04 . Such side yard shall not be less than one-fourth the sum of the
height of the structure and the length of the wall most nearly parallel to the
side lot line, but in no case shall the side yard be less than 15 feet.
   (d)   Rear Yard. A rear yard shall be required adjacent to a Residential
Zoning District or a Planned Development Zoning District, as listed in §
1238.04 . Such rear yard shall not be less than one-fourth the sum of the
height of the structure and the length of the wall most nearly parallel to the
rear lot line, but in no case shall the rear yard be less than 15 feet.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
CHAPTER 1256: NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
Section
1256.01   Permitted uses.
1256.02   Conditional uses.
1256.03   Development standards.
Cross-reference:
   Adult entertainment businesses, see
Ch. 1284
   General development standards, see
Ch. 1272
   Landscaping, see
Ch. 1278
   Off-street parking and loading, see
Ch. 1282
   Signs, see
Ch. 1280
   Special districts, see
Ch. 1276
   Special permits, see
Ch. 1274
Statutory reference:
   Municipal zoning in general, see R.C. §§ 713.06 et seq.
§ 1256.01 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted in the Neighborhood Commercial
District.
   (a)   Retail Stores. Retail stores primarily engaged in selling merchandise
for personal or household consumption and rendering services incidental to the
sale of the goods, including the buying or processing of goods for resale,
including:
      (1)   Hardware stores;
      (2)   Grocery stores;
      (3)   Meat and fish (seafood) markets;
      (4)   Fruit stores and vegetable markets;
      (5)   Candy, nut and confectionery stores;
      (6)   Dairy products stores;
      (7)   Retail bakeries;
      (8)   Drug stores and proprietary stores;
      (9)   Liquor stores; and
      (10)   Florists.
   (b)   Personal Services. Personal services generally involving the care of
the person or his or her personal effects, including:
      (1)   Eating and drinking places;
      (2)   Self-service laundries;
      (3)   Beauty shops;
      (4)   Barber shops;
      (5)   Shoe repair shops, shoe shine parlors and hat cleaning shops; and
      (6)   Pressing, alteration and garment repair shops.
   (c)   Business and Professional Offices. Business offices carrying on no
retail trade with the general public and having no stock of goods maintained
for sale to customers, and professional offices engaged in providing tangible
and intangible services to the general public, involving both persons and their
possessions, including:
      (1)   Commercial and stock savings banks;
      (2)   Credit agencies other than banks;
      (3)   Personal credit institutions;
      (4)   Insurance agents, brokers and service;
      (5)   Real estate agents, brokers and managers;
      (6)   Combinations of real estate, insurance, loans and law offices;
      (7)   Offices of physicians and surgeons;
      (8)   Offices of dentists and dental surgeons;
      (9)   Offices of osteopathic physicians;
      (10)   Offices of chiropractors; and
      (11)   Legal services.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1256.02 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses shall be allowed in the Neighborhood Commercial District
subject to approval in accordance with §
1232.02.
   (a)   Automotive Services. Gasoline service stations, provided that no
portion of a structure or its appurtenances, including ancillary, associated or
auxiliary equipment, shall be located in front of the established building
line.
   (b)   Drive-in or Outdoor Service Facilities. Drive-in or outdoor service
facilities developed in association with a permitted use.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1256.03 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   In addition to the provisions of
Chapter 1272, the following standards for the arrangement and development of
land and buildings are required in the Neighborhood Commercial District.
   (a)   Lot Size. No minimum lot size is required. However, lot size shall be
adequate to provide the yard space required by this section.
   (b)   Lot Width. No minimum lot width is required. However, all lots shall
abut a street and have adequate width to provide the yard space required by
this section.
   (c)   Side Yards. A side yard shall be required adjacent to a Residential
Zoning District or a Planned Residential Zoning District, as listed in §
1238.04 . Such side yards shall not be less than one-fourth the sum of the
height and depth of the building, but in no case shall they be less than 15
feet.
   (d)   Rear Yards. A rear yard shall be required adjacent to a Residential
Zoning District or a Planned Development Zoning District, as listed in §
1238.04 . Such required rear yards shall not be less than one- fourth the sum
of the height and width of the building, but in no case shall they be less than
20 feet. A use to be serviced from the rear shall have a service court,
alleyway or combination thereof not less than 40 feet wide.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
CHAPTER 1258: COMMUNITY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
Section
1258.01   Permitted uses.
1258.02   Conditional uses.
1258.03   Development standards.
Cross-reference:
   Adult entertainment businesses, see
Ch. 1284
   General development standards, see
Ch. 1272
   Landscaping, see
Ch. 1278
   Off-street parking and loading, see
Ch. 1282
   Signs, see
Ch. 1280
   Special districts, see
Ch. 1276
   Special permits, see
Ch. 1274
Statutory reference:
   Municipal zoning in general, see R.C. §§ 713.06 et seq.
§ 1258.01 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted in the Community Commercial District.
   (a)   Retail Stores. Retail stores primarily engaged in selling merchandise
for personal or household consumption and rendering services incidental to the
sale of the goods, including the buying or processing of goods for resale,
including:
      (1)   General Merchandise.
         A.   Hardware stores;
         B.   Department stores;
         C.   Mail order houses;
         D.   Limited price variety stores; and
         E.   Miscellaneous general merchandise stores.
      (2)   Food.
         A.   Grocery stores;
         B.   Meat and fish (seafood) markets;
         C.   Fruit stores and vegetable markets;
         D.   Candy, nut and confectionery stores;
         E.   Dairy products stores;
         F.   Retail bakeries; and
         G.   Miscellaneous food stores.
      (3)   Automobile Sales.
         A.   Motor vehicle dealers (new and used cars);
         B.   Motor vehicle dealers (used cars only);
         C.   Tire, battery and accessory dealers; and
         D.   Miscellaneous aircraft, marine and automotive dealers.
      (4)   Building Materials.
         A.   Lumber and other building materials dealers;
         B.   Heating and plumbing equipment dealers;
         C.   Electrical supply stores; and
         D.   Hardware and farm equipment.
      (5)   Apparel.
         A.   Men’s and boys’ clothing and furnishings stores;
         B.   Women’s accessory and specialty stores;
         C.   Women’s ready-to-wear stores;
         D.   Children’s and infants’ wear stores;
         E.   Family clothing stores;
         F.   Shoe stores;
         G.   Custom tailors;
         H.   Furriers and fur shops; and
         I.   Miscellaneous apparel and accessory stores.
      (6)   Home Furnishings.
         A.   Furniture, home furnishings and equipment stores;
         B.   Household appliance stores; and
         C.   Radio, television and music stores.
      (7)   Food and Lodging. Commercial establishments, and institutions
engaged in furnishing lodging and meals on a fee basis, including:
         A.   Eating and drinking places;
         B.   Motels; and
         C.   Rooming and boarding houses.
      (8)   Miscellaneous Retail.
         A.   Drug stores and proprietary stores;
         B.   Liquor stores;
         C.   Antique stores and secondhand stores;
         D.   Book and stationery stores;
         E.   Sporting goods stores and bicycle shops;
         F.   Jewelry stores;
         G.   Florists;
         H.   Cigar stores and stands;
         I.   News dealers and newsstands;
         J.   Camera and photographic supply stores;
         K.   Gift, novelty and souvenir shops;
         L.   Optical goods stores; and
         M.   Miscellaneous retail stores not elsewhere classified.
   (b)   Administrative, Business and Professional Offices. Administrative
offices primarily engaged in general administration, supervision, purchasing,
accounting and other management functions; business offices carrying on no
retail trade with the general public and having no stock of goods maintained
for sale to customers; and professional offices engaged in providing tangible
and intangible services to the general public, involving both persons and
possessions, including:
      (1)   Finance.
         A.   Commercial and stock savings banks;
         B.   Mutual savings banks;
         C.   Trust companies not engaged in deposit banking;
         D.   Establishments performing functions closely related to banking;
         E.   Savings and loan associations;
         F.   Agricultural credit institutions;
         G.   Personal credit institutions;
         H.   Business credit institutions;
         I.   Loan correspondents and brokers;
         J.   Holding companies;
         K.   Investment companies;
         L.   Trusts; and
         M.   Miscellaneous investing institutions.
      (2)   Insurance Carriers.
         A.   Life insurance;
         B.   Accident and health insurance;
         C.   Fire, marine and casualty insurance;
         D.   Surety insurance;
         E.   Title insurance; and
         F.   Insurance carriers not elsewhere classified.
      (3)   Insurance Agents. Insurance agents, brokers and service.
      (4)   Business Services.
         A.   Advertising;
         B.   Duplicating, addressing, blueprinting, photocopying, mailing,
mailing list and stenographic services;
         C.   Services to dwellings and other buildings; and
         D.   Business services not elsewhere classified.
      (5)   Repair Services.
         A.   Electrical repair shops;
         B.   Watch, clock and jewelry repair;
         C.   Re-upholstery and furniture repair; and
         D.   Miscellaneous repair shops and related services.
      (6)   Professional.
         A.   Offices of physicians and surgeons;
         B.   Offices of dentists and dental surgeons;
         C.   Offices of osteopathic physicians;
         D.   Offices of chiropractors;
         E.   Medical and dental laboratories;
         F.   Health and allied services not elsewhere classified;
         G.   Legal services;
         H.   Engineering and architectural services; and
         I.   Accounting, auditing and bookkeeping services.
   (c)   Personal and Consumer Services. Personal services generally involving
the care of the person or his or her personal effects, and consumer services
generally involving the care and maintenance of tangible property or the
provision of intangible services for personal consumption, including:
      (1)   Personal.
         A.   Photographic studios, including commercial photography;
         B.   Beauty shops;
         C.   Barber shops;
         D.   Shoe repair shops, shoe shine parlors and hat cleaning shops;
         E.   Funeral service establishments;
         F.   Pressing, alteration and garment repair; and
         G.   Miscellaneous personal services.
      (2)   Business.
         A.   Advertising;
         B.   Consumer credit reporting agencies, mercantile reporting
agencies, and adjustment and collecting agencies;
         C.   Duplicating, addressing, blueprinting, photocopying, mailing,
mailing list and stenographic services;
         D.   News syndicates;
         E.   Private employment; and
         F.   Business services not elsewhere classified, except research,
development and testing laboratories (see §
1254.02(c)(1)).
      (3)   Automotive. Gasoline service stations.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1258.02   CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses shall be allowed in the Community Commercial District,
subject to approval in accordance with §
1232.02.
   (a)   Drive-in, Outdoor Service or Open-Display Facilities. Drive-in,
outdoor service or open-display facilities, developed in association with a
permitted use, except for a gasoline service station when all of its lot lines
are 25 feet or more from a Residential Zoning District to a Planned Residential
Zoning District as listed in §
1238.04 .
   (b)   Residential. Living quarters as an integral part of a permitted use
structure.
   (c)   Consumer Services. Consumer services generally involving the care and
maintenance of tangible property or the provision of intangible services for
personal consumption, including:
      (1)   Recreation.
         A.   Motion picture theaters;
         B.   Dance halls, studios and schools;
         C.   Theatrical producers, except motion pictures, bands, orchestras
and entertainers (theater);
         D.   Bowling alleys, billiard and pool halls;
         E.   Swimming pools; and
         F.   Skating rinks.
      (2)   Automotive.
         A.   Automotive rentals, without drivers;
         B.   Automotive parking; and
         C.   Automobile services, except repair.
   (d)   Offices of Veterinarians and Animal Hospitals. Offices of
veterinarians and animal hospitals.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1258.03 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   In addition to the provisions of
Chapter 1272, the following standards for the arrangement and development of
land and buildings are required in the Community Commercial District.
   (a)   Lot Size. No minimum lot size is required. However, lot size shall be
adequate to provide the yard space required by this section.
   (b)   Lot Width. No minimum lot width is required. However, all lots shall
abut a street and have adequate width to provide the yard space required by
this section.
   (c)   Side Yards. A side yard shall be required adjacent to a Residential
Zoning District or Planned Residential Zoning District, as listed in §
1238.04 . Such side yards shall not be less than one fourth the sum of the
height and depth of the building, but in no case shall they be less than 15
feet.
   (d)   Rear Yards. A rear yard shall be required adjacent to a Residential
Zoning District or a Planned Residential Zoning District, as listed in §
1238.04 . Such rear yards shall not be less than one-fourth the sum of the
height and width of the building, except when adjacent to a dedicated alley of
not less than 20 feet. A use to be serviced from the rear shall have a service
court, alleyway or combination thereof not less than 40 feet wide.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
CHAPTER 1259: PLANNED COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
Section
1259.01   Purpose and intent.
1259.02   Permitted uses
1259.03   Conditional uses.
1259.04   Development standards.
1259.05   Plan contents and requirements.
1259.06   Review basis.
1259.07   Procedures for approval.
§ 1259.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (a)   Based on the premise that the ultimate quality of a particular
environment is determined not only by the type and arrangement of land uses but
also the method in which such uses are developed, the procedures outlined in
this chapter are designed to:
      (1)   Encourage imaginative site and architectural design;
      (2)   Permit creation of flexible development standards that respect the
unique characteristics of the site and surrounding uses;
      (3)   Result in more efficient and beneficial use of land; and
      (4)   Regulate development and redevelopment of individual parcels within
already improved areas.
   (b)   To accomplish the above purpose, the intent of this chapter is to
allow the applicant to lessen the development standards in some areas in
exchange for an increase in development standards in another. The process for
achieving the above purposes and intent is to require the submission and
approval of a Preliminary Plan for the total proposed development and the
submission and approval of a Development Plan for all or any part of the area
defined in the Preliminary Plan before obtaining a Zoning Certificate as part
of the approval of the construction of any portion of the area. As part of the
Preliminary Plan, the applicant must prepare and submit a Development Standards
Text that identifies any development standard that is less restrictive than the
standards set forth in this chapter or other referenced chapters or applicable
village ordinances including the Northland Standards. When conflicts exist
between Northland Standards and village ordinances, the more restrictive shall
apply. As part of the Development Standards Text, the applicant must justify
the modifications of these standards based on the fact that the proposed
development goes beyond minimum requirements in other areas that will result in
a superior development than if the standards set forth in this chapter had been
followed. As part of the final Development Plan, the applicant must reaffirm
use of the previously approved Development Standards Text or submit as part of
the Development Plan a modified Development Standards Text for approval by
Village Council.
(Ord. 1-2007, passed 6-11-2007)
§ 1259.02 PERMITTED USES.
   Those uses permitted within the Planned Commercial District include those
uses that are permitted in the Suburban Office District,
Chapter 1254, and additional commercial uses the Village Council feels to be in
character with the intent and purpose of the Planned Commercial District.
(Ord. 1-2007, passed 6-11-2007)
§ 1259.03 CONDITIONAL USES.
   Those uses conditionally permitted within the Planned Commercial District
include those uses that are conditionally permitted in the Suburban Office
District,
Chapter 1254. The Village Council may consider additional uses it feels under
certain conditions could be in character with the intent and purpose of the
Planned Commercial District except that these additional uses may not include
high traffic generation uses such as automotive service or sales, fast foods
and any use with a drive-through facility.
(Ord. 1-2007, passed 6-11-2007)
§ 1259.04 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (a)   The following development standards shall be considered as minimal
standards within the Planned Commercial District.
   (b)   These standards shall serve as base standards to be included and
modified if desired as part of the Development Standards Text and Preliminary
Plan and further refined as part of the Development Plan. Other development
standards, including signage, specified in village ordinances that relate to
commercial development must be also be addressed when any deviation from them
is proposed.
         (1)   Lot Requirements. Before determining setbacks, refer to §
1278.04 (b), Minimum Landscape Requirements. If a buffer zone is required and
the minimum setback is less than the appropriate buffer zone width, then the
setback shall be equal to the buffer zone width. If a buffer zone is required
and the minimum setback is greater than the appropriate buffer zone width, then
the setback shall be equal to the required setback.
         A.   Minimum Site Area. None, except area shall be sufficient area to
accommodate building and pavement setbacks, landscaping, parking, circulation
and landscaping requirements. Individual lots may be combined to attain this
minimum area for purposes of the Development Plan.
         B.   Minimum Lot Width. None, except that all lots must abut a public
street and have adequate width to meet all building and pavement setbacks,
parking, circulation, open space and landscaping requirements.
         C.   Minimum Front Yard Setback. Structure setback 50 feet; pavement
setback, 15 feet.
         D.   Minimum Side Yard. Structure setback 30 feet; pavement setback 15
feet. In addition to the required side yard, buffer zones shall be provided per
§
1278.04 (b).
         E.   Minimum Rear Yard. Structure setback 30 feet: pavement setback 20
feet. In addition to the required rear yard, buffer zones shall be provided per
§
1278.04 (b).
         F.   Maximum Lot Coverage. Maximum lot coverage or impervious surface
area shall be 80% with a total building coverage of 30%, unless otherwise
modified by the Village Council. At least 20% of the site area shall be
landscaped with natural vegetation.
         G.   Parking. Parking areas shall be no closer to main structure than
ten feet.
      (2)   Building Requirements. Maximum building height of 40 feet.
      (3)   Site Development Requirements.
         A.   Outdoor storage is prohibited. Merchandise may not be displayed
on the sidewalk.
         B.   All vending machines and display racks, except for telephone
booths and newspaper racks, shall be located inside the building.
         C.   Trash and litter shall be controlled, and stored in container
systems which are located and enclosed in a manner to screen them from view on
all sides and shall be located behind the front building line.
         D.   Provision for storm drainage shall be adequate to protect the
public and owners of surrounding land and meet the village’s requirements for
stormwater management.
         E.   All service and delivery shall be at the rear of the building;
provided, however, where site layout and design would be enhanced, provisions
may be made for service and delivery at the side of the building.
(Ord. 1-2007, passed 6-11-2007)
§ 1259.05 PLAN CONTENTS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   As part of the request for rezoning to a Planned Commercial District,
a Preliminary Plan must be initially submitted to the Planning and Zoning
Committee for their review and recommendation and then to the Village Council
along with the text of all applicable development standards.
   (b)   Village Council must approve the zoning change. Preliminary Plan and
Development Standards Text A Zoning Certificate will not be issued for any site
or portion thereof until a Development Plan is approved by the Village Council
and found in conformance with the adopted Preliminary Plan and Development
Standards.
      (1)   Preliminary Plan. The Preliminary Plan is a conceptual plan
submitted at the time of a request for rezoning generally describing the
proposed uses for the site to be rezoned and their relationship with
surrounding properties and uses. The Preliminary Plan should contain the
following elements:
         A.   A topographic map of the site and adjacent property showing
existing natural features including wooded areas and major trees. A description
of how the proposed development has planned to utilize the existing site,
identifying changes to the existing site grading and noting major trees that
will be removed as part of the proposed development;
         B.   A schematic plan showing the general development of the tract,
location of existing and proposed structures, parking lot layout and other
development features including the location of all out parcels;
         C.   An engineering feasibility statement in sufficient detail to
indicate how the proposed development will be serviced with water, sanitary
sewer and storm drainage facilities;
         D.   The proposed traffic circulation pattern showing public and
private streets and other transportation facilities, including major pedestrian
routes, with evidence through a traffic study that the proposed development
will not adversely impact existing transportation facilities;
         E.   The proposed parking plan showing the parking and loading spaces
shall be shown including typical dimensions of parking stalls, aisles and
loading spaces, size, number of spaces and general location. Also the type of
usage proposed for each component of the commercial development and the
allocated square footage for each usage category;
         F.   A conceptual landscaping plan that shows the ability of the
proposed development to meet all aspects of
Chapter 1278;
         G.   A proposed schedule or phasing of development of the site;
         H.   Evidence that the applicant has sufficient control over the land
to accomplish proposed and required land improvements; and
         I.   Any additional information required by the Village Council
necessary to determine that the proposed development meets the intent and
purposes of the Planned Commercial District.
      (2)   Development Standards Text. A Development Standards Text shall be
submitted as part of the Preliminary Plan and shall, through a narrative and
graphics, as necessary, in order to detail the development standards to be
applied to the development concept described in the Preliminary Plan. The
Development Standards Text should clearly identify any standard that is less
than the standards established by this chapter. These modifications shall be
justified by fully stating what adjustments, amenities or other compensations
are provided as part of the Preliminary Plan to offset the use of reduced
standards and by demonstrating how the modified standards will result in the
best possible development for the site. Unless specifically modified by the
Development Standards Text, the standards established by this chapter shall
apply to the proposed development.
      (3)   Development Plan. Following approval of the Preliminary Plan and
before issuance of a Zoning Certificate, a Development Plan shall be initially
submitted to the Planning and Zoning Committee for their review and
recommendation and then to the Village Council for all or part of the area
defined in the Preliminary Plan. The Development Plan is a detailed Site Plan
which shall contain the following information and adhere to the Development
Standards Text approved as part of the Preliminary Plan.
         A.   Site Survey. On a survey show boundary information, existing and
proposed development, existing and proposed topography, existing and proposed
easements, rights-of-way and utilities.
         B.   Setbacks. The Site Plan shall indicate building, service areas,
parking lot and signage setbacks including front yard, rear yard and side yard
areas and shall be in accordance with the approved Development Standards Text.
         C.   Modifications of Development Standards Text. Any desired
modifications of the Development Standards Text approved as part of the
Preliminary Plan shall be so indicated in a modified Development Standards Text
document.
         D.   Height Requirements. Maximum height requirements, including
mechanical areas, parapets and the like, shall be made per the Development
Standards Text requirements and shown on building front, rear and side
elevation drawings.
         E.   Parking and Loading. All parking and loading spaces shall be
shown including typical dimensions of parking stalls, aisles and loading
spaces, size, number of spaces and general location shall also be governed by
the Development Standards Text.
         F.   Waste and Refuse. Handling of all waste and refuse materials
shall be indicated and described by the Development Standards Text to include
appropriate screening and type of containerization.
         G.   Circulation. All major circulation routes, including arterials,
adjacent curb cuts, collector and local streets shall be indicated including
rights-of-way, dimensions, pavement widths and intersection improvements. All
driveways/curb cuts shall be indicated, including major aisle ways and service
routes. Major pedestrian circulation routes shall also be indicated including
dimensions of path and pedestrian crossings and the like, plus any attempts at
separating vehicular and pedestrian/recreation movement.
         H.   Landscaping. As part of the Development Plan, proposed
landscaping shall be shown including the general landscaping pattern and type
of materials, mounding and fencing. Landscaping may vary in density, spacing
and other treatment to reflect variations of topography, existing landscaping
or adjacent land uses and conform to
Chapter 1278, Landscaping. Landscape features shall be shown as well as
planting dimensions, height, caliper and type of plant materials per the
Development Standards Text.
         I.   Signage and Graphics. All signage and graphics shall comply with
the Development Standards Text. Letter and other graphic size, sign material,
shape, color and illumination (internal only) shall be indicated. This includes
dimensions of all ground and wall signage as well as distances from rights-of-
way and intensity of illumination. Directional signage shall also be indicated.
         J.   Lighting. All exterior lighting fixtures shall be shown including
parking lot lighting, street walkway or pedestrian lighting, walkway accent,
lighting and building accent lighting. Lighting intensity and installation
height shall be indicated.
         K.   Fencing. All fences shall conform to the Development Standards
Text and appropriate materials, heights, location and style indicated.
         L.   Architectural Treatment. As part of the Development Plan, front,
rear and side building elevations shall be shown in accordance with the
Development Standards Text indicating building material, color and height.
Color material samples shall also be made available for inspection.
(Ord. 1-2007, passed 6-11-2007)
§ 1259.06 REVIEW BASIS.
   (a)   Preliminary Plan. The basis for the approval of the Preliminary Plan
shall be:
      (1)   The proposed development is consistent in all respects with the
purpose, intent and applicable standards of the Zoning Ordinance;
      (2)   The proposed development is in conformity with appropriate
comprehensive planning or portion thereof as it may apply;
      (3)   The acceptability of setbacks, distances between buildings, yard
space, suitability of open space systems, traffic accessibility and other
elements having a bearing on the overall acceptability of the Development Plan
shall contribute to the orderly development of land within the village;
      (4)   Any modifications or minimum development standards established by
the Planning and Zoning Code are properly identified and adequately justified
in the Development Standards Text as necessary to insure a higher quality
development;
      (5)   The proposed development is in conformity with any design or site
planning guidelines adopted by the Village Council; and
      (6)   The plan provides for the coordination and integration of
individually designed buildings into one planned district.
   (b)   Development Plan. Basis for approval of a Development Plan shall be:
      (1)   The plan is complete in all respects relative to the requirements
set forth in this chapter;
      (2)   Any modifications of the Development Standards Text approved as
part of the Preliminary Plan support and enhance the purposes and intent of the
Planning and Zoning Code, any applicable comprehensive planning programs and
any design or site planning guidelines adopted by Village Council; and
      (3)   All engineering issues have been resolved to the satisfaction of
the appropriate village staff and that final approval of the Development Plan
is subject to the acceptance of final engineering of all phases of the
development.
(Ord. 1-2007, passed 6-11-2007)
§ 1259.07 PROCEDURES FOR APPROVAL.
   (a)   Submission of Application for Preliminary Plan.
      (1)   Before filing an application for rezoning to a Planned Commercial
District, the applicant shall meet with village staff in a pre-application
review meeting to discuss the requirements for a Preliminary Plan and
Development Standards Text which are required as part of the rezoning request.
      (2)   The applicant shall submit the rezoning application along with the
required number of copies of the proposed Preliminary Plan and Development
Standards Text in accordance with the submission schedule established by the
Village Council. In order to defray the cost of examination of the rezoning
application and the Plan and Text and review by the Village Council, the
applicant shall pay a fee in accordance with the fee schedule adopted and
approved by Village Council. Staff shall circulate the Preliminary Plan and
other comments to appropriate departments in the village for review and
comment.
      (3)   Once the applicant has submitted a completed application in
accordance with the submission schedule. Staff shall submit the application to
the Village Council for its review and action, which shall be accomplished
within a reasonable time. It shall be the duty of Village Council to review the
Plan and determine whether it complies with the regulations of this chapter.
      (4)   A Preliminary Plan shall be valid for three years after Village
Council approval. Construction of any phase of the development must begin
within this period or a new Preliminary Plan is required.
   (b)   Submission of Development Plan.
      (1)   Before filing for Development Plan Approval, the applicant shall
meet with the village administration to review the Development Plan relative to
the previously approved Preliminary Plan and Development Standards Text as well
as procedures for approval.
      (2)   The applicant shall submit an application to the village including
the required number of copies of the proposed Development Plan. Development
Standards Text modification if appropriate, and any other required information
in accordance with the submission schedule of the Village Council. In order to
defray the cost of examination of the materials and review by the Village
Council, the applicant shall pay a fee in accordance with the fee schedule
adopted and approved by Village Council.
      (3)   It shall be the duty of the Village Council to review the plan and
determine whether it complies with the regulations of this chapter. Such
determination shall be made within a reasonable time. If the Village Council
finds that the Development Plan complies in all respects with the regulations
of this chapter and the previously approved Preliminary Plan and Development
Standards Text, the Village Council shall approve the plan. With the approval
of the Village Council, minor modifications of the approved Preliminary Plan
may be made. Such modification shall not increase the overall density of the
site or change the essential character of the approved plan. If the Village
Council determines that such proposed changes significantly alter the approval
plan, it is considered to be a major change and the plan must be resubmitted to
Village Council for approval.
      (4)   In the event that the Village Council does not approve the plan,
each applicant shall be notified in writing of the reason for disapproval or
modification along with the decision of the Village Council.
   (c)   Conformance with the Development Plan. Development shall be in
conformance with the Development Plan and construction of site improvements
must be commenced within two years of Village Council approval: otherwise no
development of the land shall take place until a new Development Plan is
approved pursuant to this section.
   (d)   Modification of the Development Plan. With the approval of the Village
Council, minor modifications of the approved Development Plan may be made. Such
modification shall not increase the overall density of the site or change the
essential character of the approved plan. If the Village Council determines
that such proposed changes significantly alter the approved plan, it is
considered to be a major change and the plan must be resubmitted to Village
Council for approval. Development of land shall not proceed before final
approval of the Development Plan. Any development undertaken without such final
approval is in violation of this zoning ordinance and an abatable nuisance.
   (e)   Variances from Development Standards. The Village Council may approve
variances from the Development Standards of this chapter as part of the
Development Standards Text and Development Plan. These variances shall be
consistent with the intent of this zoning district.
(Ord. 1-2007, passed 6-11-2007)
CHAPTER 1260: CENTRAL COMMUNITY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
Section
1260.01   Permitted uses.
1260.02   Conditional use.
1260.03   Development standards.
Cross-reference:
   Adult entertainment businesses, see
Ch. 1284
   General development standards, see
Ch. 1272
   Landscaping, see
Ch. 1278
   Off-street parking and loading, see
Ch. 1282
   Signs, see
Ch. 1280
   Special districts, see
Ch. 1276
   Special permits, see
Ch. 1274
Statutory reference:
   Municipal zoning in general, see R.C. §§ 713.06 et seq.
§ 1260.01 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted in the Central Community District:
   (a)   Retail Stores. Retail stores primarily engaged in selling merchandise
for personal or household consumption and rendering services incidental to the
sale of the goods, including the buying or processing of goods for resale,
including:
      (1)   General Merchandise.
         A.   Hardware stores;
         B.   Department stores;
         C.   Mail order houses;
         D.   Limited price variety stores; and
         E.   Miscellaneous general merchandise stores.
      (2)   Food.
         A.   Grocery stores;
         B.   Meat and fish (seafood) markets;
         C.   Fruit stores and vegetable markets;
         D.   Candy, nut and confectionery stores;
         E.   Dairy products stores;
         F.   Retail bakeries; and
         G.   Miscellaneous food stores.
      (3)   Building Materials.
         A.   Lumber and other building materials dealers;
         B.   Heating and plumbing equipment dealers;
         C.   Electrical supply stores; and
         D.   Hardware and farm equipment.
      (4)   Apparel.
         A.   Men’s and boys’ clothing and furnishings stores;
         B.   Women’s accessory and specialty stores;
         C.   Women’s ready-to-wear stores;
         D.   Children’s and infants’ wear stores;
         E.   Family clothing stores;
         F.   Shoe stores;
         G.   Custom tailors;
         H.   Furriers and fur shops; and
         I.   Miscellaneous apparel and accessories stores.
      (5)   Home Furnishings.
         A.   Furniture, home furnishings and equipment stores;
         B.   Household appliance stores; and
         C.   Radio, television and music stores.
      (6)   Eating and Drinking. Eating and drinking places, i.e., commercial
establishments and institutions engaged in furnishing meals on a fee basis.
      (7)   Miscellaneous Retail.
         A.   Drug stores and proprietary stores;
         B.   Liquor stores;
         C.   Antique stores and secondhand stores;
         D.   Book and stationery stores;
         E.   Sporting goods stores and bicycle shops;
         F.   Jewelry stores;
         G.   Florists;
         H.   Cigar stores and stands;
         I.   News dealers and newsstands;
         J.   Camera and photographic supply stores;
         K.   Gift, novelty and souvenir shops;
         L.   Optical goods stores; and
         M.   Miscellaneous retail stores not elsewhere classified.
   (b)   Administrative, Business and Professional Offices. Administrative
offices primarily engaged in general administration, supervision, purchasing,
accounting and other management functions; business offices carrying on no
retail trade with the general public and having no stock of goods maintained
for sale to customers; and professional offices engaged in providing tangible
and intangible services to the general public, involving both persons and
professions, including:
      (1)   Finance.
         A.   Commercial and stock savings banks;
         B.   Mutual savings banks;
         C.   Trust companies not engaged in deposit banking;
         D.   Establishments performing functions closely related to banking;
         E.   Savings and loan associations;
         F.   Agricultural credit institutions;
         G.   Personal credit institutions;
         H.   Business credit institutions;
         I.   Loan correspondence and brokers;
         J.   Holding companies;
         K.   Investment companies;
         L.   Trusts; and
         M.   Miscellaneous investing institutions.
      (2)   Insurance Carriers.
         A.   Life insurance;
         B.   Accident and health insurance;
         C.   Fire, marine and casualty insurance;
         D.   Surety insurance;
         E.   Title insurance; and
         F.   Insurance carriers not elsewhere classified.
      (3)   Insurance Agents. Insurance agents, brokers and service.
      (4)   Real Estate.
         A.   Real estate operators (except developers) and lessors;
         B.   Agents, brokers and managers;
         C.   Title abstract companies;
         D.   Subdividers and developers;
         E.   Operative builders; and
         F.   Combinations of real estate, insurance, loans and law offices.
      (5)   Business Services.
         A.   Advertising;
         B.   Duplicating, addressing, blueprinting, photocopying, mailing,
mailing list and steno graphic services;
         C.   Business services not elsewhere classified; and
         D.   Services to dwellings and other buildings.
      (6)   Repair Services.
         A.   Electrical repair shops;
         B.   Watch, clock and jewelry repair;
         C.   Re-upholstery and furniture repair; and
         D.   Miscellaneous repair shops and related services.
      (7)   Professional.
         A.   Offices of physicians and surgeons;
         B.   Offices of dentists and dental surgeons;
         C.   Offices of osteopathic physicians;
         D.   Offices of chiropractors;
         E.   Medical and dental laboratories;
         F.   Health and allied services not elsewhere classified;
         G.   Legal services;
         H.   Engineering and architectural services;
         I.   Accounting, auditing and bookkeeping services; and
         J   Offices of veterinarians and animal hospitals.
   (c)   Personal and Consumer Services. Personal services generally involving
the care of the person or his or her personal effects, and consumer services
generally involving the care and maintenance of tangible property or the
provision of intangible services for personal consumption, including:
      (1)   Personal.
         A.   Motel;
         B.   Photographic studios, including commercial photography;
         C.   Beauty shops;
         D.   Barber shops;
         E.   Shoe repair shops, shoe shine parlors and hat cleaning shops;
         F.   Pressing, alteration and garment repair; and
         G.   Miscellaneous personal services.
      (2)   Business.
         A.   Consumer credit reporting agencies, mercantile reporting agencies
and adjustment and collecting agencies;
         B.   News syndicates; and
         C.   Private employment agencies.
      (3)   Automotive.
         A.   Tire, battery and accessory dealers; and
         B.   Gasoline service station.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1260.02 CONDITIONAL USE.
   The following use shall be allowed in the Central Community Commercial
District, subject to approval in accordance with §
1232.02: living quarters as an integral part of a permitted use structure.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1260.03 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   In addition to the provisions of
Chapter 1272, the following standards for the arrangement and development of
land and buildings are required in the Central Community Commercial District.
   (a)   Lot Size. No minimum lot size is required.
   (b)   Lot Width. No minimum lot width is required. However, all lots shall
abut a street and have adequate width to provide the yard space required by
this section.
   (c)   Side Yards. A side yard shall be required adjacent to a Residential
Zoning District or Planned Residential Zoning District, as listed in §
1238.04 . Such side yards shall not be less than one-fourth the sum of the
height and depth of the building, but in no case shall they be less than 15
feet.
   (d)   Rear Yards. A rear yard shall be required adjacent to a Residential
Zoning District or a Planned Residential Zoning District, as listed in §
1238.04 . Such rear yards shall not be less than one-fourth the sum of the
height and width of the building, except when adjacent to a dedicated alley of
not less than 20 feet. A use to be serviced from the rear shall have a service
court, alleyway or combination thereof not less than 40 feet wide.
   (e)   Location and Appearance. The location on the site and the appearance
(architectural character) of structures proposed for construction in the
Central Community Commercial District shall be determined by the Planning and
Zoning Commission following the procedures and guidelines established in this
Zoning Code.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
CHAPTER 1262: CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
Section
1262.01   Permitted uses.
1262.02   Conditional uses.
1262.03   Development standards.
Cross-reference:
   Adult entertainment businesses, see
Ch. 1284
   General development standards, see
Ch. 1272
   Landscaping, see
Ch. 1278
   Off-street parking and loading, see
Ch. 1282
   Signs, see
Ch. 1280
   Special districts, see
Ch. 1276
   Special permits, see
Ch. 1274
Statutory reference:
   Municipal zoning in general, see R.C. §§ 713.06 et seq.
§ 1262.01 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted in the Central Business District.
   (a)   Residential. Residential structures containing not more than four
dwelling units.
   (b)   Retail Stores. Retail stores primarily engaged in selling merchandise
for personal or household consumption and rendering services incidental to the
sale of the goods, including the buying or processing of goods for resale,
including:
      (1)   Building Materials.
         A.   Heating and plumbing equipment dealers;
         B.   Paint, glass and wallpaper stores;
         C.   Electrical supply stores; and
         D.   Hardware stores.
      (2)   General Merchandise.
         A.   Department stores;
         B.   Mail order houses;
         C.   Limited price variety stores; and
         D.   Dry goods and general merchandise stores.
      (3)   Food.
         A.   Grocery stores;
         B.   Fruit stores and vegetable markets;
         C.   Candy, nut and confectionery stores;
         D.   Dairy products stores;
         E.   Retail bakeries - nonmanufacturing; and
         F.   Food stores not elsewhere classified.
      (4)   Apparel and Accessories.
         A.   Men’s and boys’ clothing and furnishings stores;
         B.   Women’s ready-to-wear stores;
         C.   Women’s accessory and specialty shops;
         D.   Children’s and infants’ wear stores;
         E.   Family clothing stores;
         F.   Shoe stores;
         G.   Custom tailors;
         H.   Furriers and fur shops; and
         I.   Miscellaneous apparel and accessory stores.
      (5)   Home Furnishings.
         A.   Furniture, home furnishings and equipment stores;
         B.   Household appliance stores; and
         C.   Radio, television and music stores.
      (6)   Eating and Drinking. Eating and drinking places.
      (7)   Miscellaneous Retail.
         A.   Drug stores and proprietary stores;
         B.   Liquor stores;
         C.   Antique stores and secondhand stores;
         D.   Book and stationery stores;
         E.   Sporting goods stores and bicycle shops;
         F.   Jewelry stores; and
         G.   Retail stores not elsewhere classified.
   (c)   Administrative, Business and Professional Offices. Administrative
offices primarily engaged in general administration, supervision, purchasing,
accounting and other management functions; business offices carrying on no
retail trade with the general public and having no stock of goods maintained
for sale to customers; and professional offices engaged in providing tangible
and intangible services to the general public, involving both persons and
possessions, including:
      (1)   Finance.
         A.   Federal Reserve banks;
         B.   Commercial and stock savings banks;
         C.   Mutual savings banks;
         D.   Trust companies not engaged in deposit banking;
         E.   Establishments performing functions closely related to banking;
         F.   Rediscount and financing institutions for credit agencies other
than banks;
         G.   Savings and loan associations;
         H.   Agricultural credit institutions;
         I.   Personal credit institutions;
         J.   Business credit institutions;
         K.   Loan correspondents and brokers;
         L.   Security brokers, dealers and flotation companies;
         M.   Commodity contracts brokers and dealers;
         N.   Security and commodity exchanges; and
         O.   Services allied with the exchange of securities or commodities.
      (2)   Insurance Carriers.
         A.   Life insurance;
         B.   Accident and health insurance;
         C.   Fire, marine and casualty insurance;
         D.   Surety insurance;
         E.   Title insurance; and
         F.   Insurance carriers not elsewhere classified.
      (3)   Insurance Agents. Insurance agents, brokers and service.
      (4)   Real Estate.
         A.   Real estate operators (except developers) and lessors;
         B.   Agents, brokers and managers;
         C.   Title abstract companies;
         D.   Subdividers and developers;
         E.   Operative builders; and
         F.   Combination of real estate, insurance, loans and law offices.
      (5)   Holding and Other Investment Companies.
         A.   Holding companies;
         B.   Investment companies;
         C.   Trusts; and
         D.   Miscellaneous investing institutions.
      (6)   Professional.
         A.   Offices of physicians and surgeons;
         B.   Offices of dentists and dental surgeons;
         C.   Offices of osteopathic physicians;
         D.   Offices of chiropractors;
         E.   Medical and dental laboratories;
         F.   Health and allied services not elsewhere classified;
         G.   Legal services;
         H.   Engineering and architectural services; and
         I.   Accounting, auditing and bookkeeping services.
   (d)   Personal and Consumer Services. Personal services generally involving
the care of the person or his or her personal effects, and consumer services
generally involving the care and maintenance of tangible property or the
provision of intangible services for personal consumption, including:
      (1)   Personal.
         A.   Photographic studios, including commercial photography;
         B.   Beauty shops;
         C.   Barber shops;
         D.   Shoe repair shops, shoe shine parlors and hat cleaning shops;
         E.   Funeral service establishments;
         F.   Pressing, alteration and garment repair; and
         G.   Miscellaneous personal services.
      (2)   Business.
         A.   Advertising;
         B.   Consumer credit reporting agencies, mercantile reporting
agencies, and adjustment and collection agencies;
         C.   Duplicating, addressing, blueprinting, photocopying, mailing,
mailing list and stenographic services;
         D.   News syndicates; and
         E.   Business services not elsewhere classified (except research,
development and testing laboratories, as approved by the Planning and Zoning
Commission).
      (3)   Miscellaneous Repair.
         A.   Electrical repair shops;
         B.   Watch, clock and jewelry;
         C.   Re-upholstery and furniture repair; and
         D.   Miscellaneous repair shops and related services.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1262.02 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses shall be allowed in the Central Business District,
subject to approval in accordance with §
1232.02.
   (a)   Residential. Living quarters developed as an integral part of a
permitted use structure.
   (b)   Industrial Controls. Industrial controls, but limited to those of an
electronic character.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1262.03 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   In addition to the provisions of
Chapter 1272, the following standards for the arrangement and development of
land and buildings are required in the Central Business District.
   (a)   Lot Size. No minimum lot size is required.
   (b)   Lot Width. No minimum lot width is required. However, all lots shall
abut a street.
   (c)   Side Yards. A side yard shall be required adjacent to a Residential
Zoning District or Planned Residential Zoning District, as listed in §
1238.04 . Such side yards shall not be less than one-fourth the sum of the
height and depth of the building, but in no case shall they be less than 15
feet.
   (d)   Rear Yards. A rear yard shall be required adjacent to a Residential
Zoning District or a Planned Residential Zoning District, as listed in §
1238.04 . Such rear yards shall not be less than one-fourth the sum of the
height and width of the building, except when adjacent to a dedicated alley of
not less than 20 feet. A use designed to be serviced from the rear shall
provide a service court, alleyway or combination thereof having a width of not
less than 40 feet.
   (e)   Location and Appearance. The location on the site and the appearance
(architectural character) of structures proposed for construction in the
Central Business District shall be determined by the Planning and Zoning
Commission following the procedures and guidelines established in this Zoning
Code.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
CHAPTER 1264: RESTRICTED INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
Section
1264.01   Permitted uses.
1264.02   Conditional uses.
1264.03   Development standards.
Cross-reference:
   Adult entertainment businesses, see
Ch. 1284
   General development standards, see
Ch. 1272
   Landscaping, see
Ch. 1278
   Off-street parking and loading, see
Ch. 1282
   Signs, see
Ch. 1280
   Special districts, see
Ch. 1276
   Special permits, see
Ch. 1274
Statutory reference:
   Municipal zoning in general, see R.C. §§ 713.06 et seq.
§ 1264.01 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted in the Restricted Industrial District.
   (a)   Manufacturing.
      (1)   Canning and preserving fruits, vegetables and seafoods (except
canned and cured sea foods and fresh or frozen packaged fish);
      (2)   Bakery products;
      (3)   Candy and other confectionery products;
      (4)   Men’s, youths’ and boys’ suits, coats and overcoats;
      (5)   Men’s, youths’ and boys’ furnishings, work clothing and allied
garments;
      (6)   Women’s, misses’ and juniors’ outerwear;
      (7)   Women’s, misses’, children’s and infants’ undergarments;
      (8)   Hats, caps and millinery;
      (9)   Girls’, children’s and infants’ outerwear;
      (10)   Fur goods;
      (11)   Miscellaneous apparel and accessories;
      (12)   Miscellaneous fabricated textile products;
      (13)   Newspapers: publishing, and publishing and printing;
      (14)   Periodicals: publishing, and publishing and printing;
      (15)   Books;
      (16)   Miscellaneous publishing;
      (17)   Commercial printing;
      (18)   Manifold business forms manufacturing;
      (19)   Greeting card manufacturing;
      (20)   Bookbinding and related industries;
      (21)   Service industries for the printing trade;
      (22)   Drugs;
      (23)   Footwear, except rubber;
      (24)   Leather gloves and mittens;
      (25)   Luggage;
      (26)   Handbags and other personal leather goods;
      (27)   Glass products made of purchased glass;
      (28)   Communication equipment;
      (29)   Electronic components and accessories;
      (30)   Engineering, laboratory and scientific and research instruments
and associated equipment;
      (31)   Instruments for measuring, controlling and indicating physical
characteristics;
      (32)   Optical instruments and lenses;
      (33)   Surgical, medical and dental instruments and supplies;
      (34)   Ophthalmic goods;
      (35)   Photographic equipment and supplies;
      (36)   Watches, clocks, clockwork operated devices and parts; and
      (37)   Jewelry, silverware and plated ware.
   (b)   Wholesaling.
      (1)   Drugs, chemicals and allied products;
      (2)   Dry goods and apparel;
      (3)   Groceries and related products;
      (4)   Electrical goods;
      (5)   Hardware and plumbing and heating equipment and supplies;
      (6)   Machinery, equipment and supplies;
      (7)   Tobacco and tobacco products;
      (8)   Beer, wine and distilled alcoholic beverages;
      (9)   Paper and paper products; and
      (10)   Furniture and home furnishings.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1264.02 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses shall be allowed in the Restricted Industrial District,
subject to approval in accordance with §
1232.02.
   (a)   Laboratories. Research, development and testing laboratories.
   (b)   Other Industries. Permitted uses of the Limited Industrial District
developed in accordance with the provisions of this district.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1264.03 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   In addition to the provisions of
Chapter 1272, the following standards for the arrangement and development of
land and buildings are required in the Restricted Industrial District.
   (a)   Lot Size; Use Regulations. Lot size shall be adequate to provide the
yard space required by this section and the following provisions.
      (1)   A use allowed in this district shall operate entirely within an
enclosed structure, emitting no dust, smoke, noxious odor or fumes outside such
structure and producing a noise level audible at the property line no greater
than the average noise level occurring on any adjacent street.
      (2)   Open service areas and loading docks shall be screened by walls or
fences at least six feet, but not more than eight feet, in height. Such walls
or fences shall have an opaqueness of 75% or more, so as to effectively conceal
service and loading operations from adjoining streets and from any Residential
Zoning District or Planned Development District, as listed in §
1238.04.
   (b)   Lot Width. All lots shall abut a public street and have adequate width
to provide the yard space required by this section.
   (c)   Side Yards. For main and accessory structures, including open service
and loading areas, the required side yards shall not be less than one-third the
sum of the height and depth of the structure, but in no case shall they be less
than 15 feet from the interior lot line and 25 feet from any Residential Zoning
District or Planned Development District, as listed in §
1238.04 .
   (d)   Rear Yards. For main and accessory structures, the required rear yards
shall not be less than one-third the sum of the height and width of the
structure, but in no case shall they be less than 15 feet from any interior lot
line and 25 feet from any Residential Zoning District or Planned Development
District, as listed in §
1238.04 .
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
CHAPTER 1266: LIMITED INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
Section
1266.01   Permitted uses.
1266.02   Conditional uses.
1266.03   Development standards.
Cross-reference:
   Adult entertainment businesses: see
Ch. 1284
   General development standards: see
Ch. 1272
   Landscaping: see
Ch. 1278
   Off-street parking and loading: see
Ch. 1282
   Signs: see
Ch. 1280
   Special districts: see
Ch. 1276
   Special permits: see
Ch. 1274
Statutory reference:
   Municipal zoning in general, see R.C. §§ 713.06 et seq.
§ 1266.01 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted in the Limited Industrial District.
   (a)   Restricted Industrial District Uses. Any permitted use of the
Restricted Industrial District.
   (b)   Manufacturing.
      (1)   Sausages and other prepared meat products;
      (2)   Dairy products;
      (3)   Grain mill products;
      (4)   Beverage industries;
      (5)   Broad woven fabric mills; cotton;
      (6)   Broad woven fabric mills; human-made fiber and silk;
      (7)   Broad woven fabric mills; wool, including dyeing and finishing;
      (8)   Narrow fabrics and other small wares mills; cotton, wool, silk and
human-made fiber;
      (9)   Knitting mills;
      (10)   Dyeing and finishing textiles, except wool fabrics and knit goods;
      (11)   Floor covering mills;
      (12)   Yarn and thread mills;
      (13)   Miscellaneous textile goods;
      (14)   Household furniture;
      (15)   Office furniture;
      (16)   Public buildings and related furniture;
      (17)   Partitions, shelving, lockers and office and store fixtures;
      (18)   Miscellaneous furniture and fixtures;
      (19)   Converted paper and paperboard products, except containers and
boxes;
      (20)   Paperboard containers and boxes;
      (21)   Boot and shoe-cut stock and findings;
      (22)   Leather goods not elsewhere classified;
      (23)   Nonferrous foundries;
      (24)   Sheet metal work;
      (25)   Machine shops, jobbing and repair;
      (26)   Household appliances;
      (27)   Electric lighting and wiring equipment;
      (28)   Miscellaneous electrical machinery, equipment and supplies;
      (29)   Musical instruments and parts;
      (30)   Toys, amusements, sporting and athletic goods;
      (31)   Pens, pencils and other office and artists’ materials;
      (32)   Costume jewelry, costume novelties, buttons and miscellaneous
notions, except precious metal;
      (33)   Miscellaneous manufacturing industries; and
      (34)   Manufacturing industries not elsewhere classified.
   (c)   Warehousing, Wholesaling and Transportation Services.
      (1)   Railroads;
      (2)   Steering car and other passenger car service;
      (3)   Railway express service;
      (4)   Trucking, local and long distance;
      (5)   Public warehousing;
      (6)   Terminal and joint terminal maintenance facilities for motor
freight transportation;
      (7)   Freight forwarding;
      (8)   Arrangement of transportation;
      (9)   Rental of railroad cars;
      (10)   Miscellaneous services incidental to transportation;
      (11)   Motor vehicles and automotive equipment;
      (12)   Drugs, chemicals and allied products;
      (13)   Dry goods and apparel;
      (14)   Groceries and related products;
      (15)   Farm products - raw materials;
      (16)   Electrical goods;
      (17)   Hardware; plumbing and heating equipment and supplies;
      (18)   Machinery, equipment and supplies; and
      (19)   Miscellaneous wholesalers (except scrap and waste materials).
   (d)   Service Industries.
      (1)   General building contractors;
      (2)   Highway and street construction, except elevated highways;
      (3)   Heavy construction, except highway and street construction;
      (4)   Plumbing, heating and air conditioning;
      (5)   Painting, paper hanging, and decorating;
      (6)   Electrical work;
      (7)   Masonry, stonework, tile setting and plastering;
      (8)   Carpentering and wood flooring;
      (9)   Roofing and sheet metal work;
      (10)   Concrete work;
      (11)   Water well drilling; and
      (12)   Miscellaneous special trade contractors.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1266.02 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses shall be allowed in the Limited Industrial District,
subject to approval in accordance with §
1232.02.
   (a)   General Industrial District Uses. Any permitted use of the General
Industrial District developed in accordance with the development standards of
this district.
   (b)   Commercial Establishments. Commercial establishments normally
associated with and intended to serve the industrial establishments or their
employees, including:
      (1)   Eating and drinking places;
      (2)   Commercial and stock saving banks;
      (3)   Savings and loan associations;
      (4)   Personal credit institutions;
      (5)   Business credit institutions;
      (6)   Offices of physicians and surgeons;
      (7)   Offices of dentists and dental surgeons;
      (8)   Offices of osteopathic physicians;
      (9)   Medical and allied services;
      (10)   Engineering and architectural services; and
      (11)   Accounting, auditing and bookkeeping services.
   (c)   Administrative Offices. Administrative offices primarily engaged in
general administrative supervision, purchasing, accounting and other management
functions.
   (d)   Personal and Consumer Services. Personal services generally involving
the care and maintenance of tangible property or the provision of intangible
services for personal consumption, intended to serve the industrial
establishments or their employees, including:
      (1)   Personal.
         A.   Beauty shops;
         B.   Barber shops;
         C.   Shoe repair shops, shoe shine parlors and hat cleaning shops;
         D.   Pressing, alterations and garment repair; and
         E.   Miscellaneous personal services.
      (2)   Business.
         A.   Advertising;
         B.   Consumer credit reporting agencies, mercantile reporting agencies
and adjustment and collecting agencies;
         C.   Duplicating, addressing, blueprinting, photocopying, mailing,
mailing list and stenographic services;
         D.   Private employment agencies; and
         E.   Business services not elsewhere classified (except research,
development any testing laboratories).
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1266.03 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   In addition to the provisions of
Chapter 1272, the following standards for the arrangement and development of
land and buildings are required in the Limited Industrial District.
   (a)   Lot Size; Use Regulations. Lot size shall be adequate to provide the
yard space required by this section and the following provisions.
      (1)   A use allowed in this district shall entirely enclose its primary
operation within a structure. Open storage and service areas and loading docks
shall be screened by walls or fences at least six feet, but not more than 12
feet, in height. Such walls or fences shall have an opaqueness of 75% or more,
so as to effectively conceal production, storage, service and loading
operations from adjoining streets and from a Residential Zoning District or a
Planned Development District, as listed in §
1238.04.
      (2)   Permitted uses of this District may be developed in accordance with
the development standards of
Chapter 1264.
   (b)   Lot Width. All lots shall abut a public street for a distance of 100
feet or more and have adequate width to provide the yard space required by this
section.
   (c)   Side Yards. For main and accessory structures, including open storage,
service and loading areas, the required side yards shall not be less than one-
third the sum of the height and depth of the structure, nor less than 50 feet
from any Residential Zoning District, as listed in §
1238.04 , except in accordance with the development standards of
Chapter 1264 .
   (d)   Rear Yards. For main and accessory structures, including open storage,
service and loading areas, the required rear yards shall not be less than one-
third the sum of the height and width of the structure, nor shall the rear
yards be less than 50 feet from any Residential Zoning District or Planned
Development District, as listed in §
1238.04 , except in accordance with the development standards of
Chapter 1264 .
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
CHAPTER 1267: PLANNED INDUSTRIAL PARK DISTRICT
Section
1267.01   Permitted uses.
1267.02   Procedure for placing land in district.
1267.03   Development standards.
Cross-reference:
   Adult entertainment businesses, see
Ch. 1284
   General development standards, see
Ch. 1272
   Landscaping, see
Ch. 1278
   Off-street parking and loading, see
Ch. 1282
   Signs, see
Ch. 1280
   Special districts, see
Ch. 1276
   Special permits, see
Ch. 1274
Statutory reference:
   Municipal zoning in general, see R.C. §§ 713.06 et seq.
§ 1267.01 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted in the Planning Industrial Park
District.
   (a)   Industrial Development. Manufacturing, processing, warehousing and
industrial service activities located and maintained within the limits of the
development standards of these Planned Industrial District regulations and in
accordance with the approved development plan.
   (b)   Commercial Establishments. Commercial establishments normally
associated with and intended to serve the industrial establishments or their
employees and approved as a part of the development plan. These commercial
establishments are financial institutions, restaurants, gasoline service
stations, automobile repair establishments, recreation or other personal
enrichment facilities established primarily for employees of industrial
establishments or in conjunction with commercially operated recreation
establishments, developed as part of the approved development plan.
(Ord. 4-96, passed 5-13-1996)
§ 1267.02 PROCEDURE FOR PLACING LAND IN DISTRICT.
   The following procedure shall be followed in placing land in the Planned
Industrial Park District.
   (a)   Submission of Application. The owner or owners of a tract of land or
more in area may request that the Zoning District Map be amended to include
such tract in the Planned Industrial Park District in accordance with the
provisions of §§
1202.06 (b) and
1202.07  and the following requirements.
   (b)   Development Plan. Three copies of a development plan shall be
submitted with the application to amend the Zoning District Map. Such
development plan shall include, in text or map form:
      (1)   The proposed location and size of industrial areas, indicating by
sketch, map or text, the general development character of the tract,
limitations or controls to be placed on industrial uses, processes, operations,
locations or the types of tenants, probable lot size and other development
features, including the landscaping plan;
      (2)   The proposed location and size of non-industrial uses within the
tract, indicating types of proposed uses, such as commercial, community service
or facility, or other associated nonindustrial activity;
      (3)   The proposed provisions of water, sanitary sewer, industrial waste
disposal and surface drainage facilities, including engineering feasibility
studies or other evidence of reasonableness;
      (4)   The proposed traffic circulation pattern showing public and private
streets and other transportation facilities, including their relationship to
topography and existing transportation facilities, with evidence of
reasonableness;
      (5)   The proposed schedule of site development and associated
facilities, including streets, other transportation facilities, utilities,
services and other facilities;
      (6)   The relationship of the proposed development to existing and future
land use in the surrounding area, the street system, community facilities,
services and other public improvements; and
      (7)   Evidence that the applicant has sufficient control over the land to
prepare required land improvements, including street, water, sanitary sewer,
waste disposal, surface drainage and other facilities for subdivision
development required by the subdivision regulations. Evidence of control
includes property rights and any engineering feasibility data which may be
necessary.
   (c)   Basis of Approval. The basis for approving a Planned Industrial Park
District application shall be:
      (1)   The proposed development is consistent in all respects with the
purpose, intent and applicable standards of this Zoning Code;
      (2)   The proposed development is in conformity with a comprehensive plan
or portion thereof as it may apply;
      (3)   The proposed development advances the general welfare of the
municipality and the immediate vicinity; and
      (4)   The benefits of improved arrangement and design of the development
justifies deviation from the standard requirements for industrial development
included in this Zoning Code.
   (d)   Plat Required. In the Planned Industrial Park District, no use shall
be established or changed and no structure shall be constructed or altered
until the required plat has been approved by the Planning and Zoning
Commission. The plat shall be in accordance with the approved development plan
and shall show or include:
      (1)   Public and private streets; building setback lines; water, sewer,
fire hydrant and other public utility installations, including sanitary sewer
and waste disposal facilities; easements, rights-of- way, pavements and walks;
and land reserved for nonindustrial use, with an indication of the nature of
the use; and
      (2)   The nature and extent of earthwork required for site preparation
and the installation of public improvements such as streets and utilities.
   (e)   Extension of Time or Modification. An extension of the time limit or
the modification of the approved development plan may be approved by Council.
Such approval shall be given upon a finding of the purpose and necessity for
such extension or modification and evidence of reasonable effort toward the
accomplishment of the original development plan, and that such extension or
modification is not in conflict with the general health, safety and welfare of
the public or the development standards of the Planned Industrial Park
District.
(Ord. 4-96, passed 5-13-1996)
§ 1267.03 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   In addition to the provisions of §
1266.03, the following standards for arrangement and development of land and
buildings are required in the Planned Industrial Park District.
   (a)   Intensity of Use.
      (1)   A use allowed in this district shall entirely enclose its primary
operation within a structure. Open storage and service areas and loading docks
shall be screened by walls or fences at least six feet, but not more than 12
feet, in height. These walls or fences shall have an opaqueness of 75% or more,
so as to effectively conceal production, storage, service and loading
operations from adjoining streets and from a Residential Zoning District or
another planned development district as listed in §
1238.04.
      (2)   Permitted uses in this district may be developed in accordance with
the development standards of
Chapter 1266.
   (b)   Lot Width. All lots shall abut a public street or otherwise provide
access to such public street for a distance of 100 feet or more and have
adequate width to provide the yard space required by §
1266.03 .
   (c)   Side Yards. For main and accessory structures, including open storage,
service and loading areas, the required side yards shall equal one-third the
sum of the height and depth of the structure, but in no case shall such yards
be less than 50 feet from any Residential Zoning District or Planned
Residential District as listed in §
1266.03 .
   (d)   Rear Yards. For main and accessory structures, including open storage,
service and loading areas, the required rear yards shall equal one-third the
sum of the height and width of the structure, but in no case shall such yards
be less than 50 feet from any Residential Zoning District or Planned
Residential District as listed in §
1266.03 .
   (e)   Improvements Required. The following improvements shall be required:
      (1)   Street improvements within or adjacent to the tract;
      (2)   Water and sewer facility improvements in accordance with the
requirements of the Franklin County Board of Health rules and regulations; and
      (3)   An easement 25 feet or more in width shall be provided around the
entire tract and shall be landscaped in accordance with an approved landscape
plan. Such plan shall provide plantings which will achieve a height of ten feet
or more and an opaqueness of at least 75% with five years of normal growth.
This easement, when adjacent to a street right-of-way 80 feet or more in width,
or other Industrial Zoning District, may be reduced to 15 feet, a 25%
opaqueness and two feet in height. The landscape plan shall be submitted with
the subdivision plat and shall be subject to approval in the same manner as
required for the subdivision plat.
   (f)   Plat and Landscape Required. The plat shall be developed and recorded
in accordance with §
1272.02 . Landscaping shall be accomplished in accordance with the approved
landscape plan as required in
Chapter 1278 .
(Ord. 4-96, passed 5-13-1996)
CHAPTER 1268: GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
Section
1268.01   Permitted uses.
1268.02   Conditional uses.
1268.03   Development standards.
Cross-reference:
   Adult entertainment businesses, see
Ch. 1284
   General development standards, see
Ch. 1272
   Landscaping, see
Ch. 1278
   Off-street parking and loading, see
Ch. 1282
   Signs, see
Ch. 1280
   Special districts, see
Ch. 1276
   Special permits, see
Ch. 1274
Statutory reference:
   Municipal zoning in general, see R.C. §§ 713.06 et seq.
§ 1268.01 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted in the General Industrial District.
   (a)   Restricted Industrial District Uses. Any permitted use of a Restricted
Industrial District.
   (b)   Limited Industrial District Uses. Any permitted use of a Limited
Industrial District.
   (c)   Manufacturing.
      (1)   Chocolate and cocoa products;
      (2)   Chewing gum;
      (3)   Sawmills and planing mills;
      (4)   Millwork, veneer, plywood and prefabricated structural wood
products;
      (5)   Wooden containers;
      (6)   Miscellaneous wood products;
      (7)   Industrial leather belting and packing;
      (8)   Flat glass;
      (9)   Glass and glassware, pressed or blown;
      (10)   Structural clay products;
      (11)   Pottery and related products;
      (12)   Ready-mixed concrete;
      (13)   Cut stone and stone products;
      (14)   Iron and steel foundries;
      (15)   Miscellaneous primary metal industries;
      (16)   Metal cans;
      (17)   Cutlery, hand tools and general hardware;
      (18)   Heating apparatus (except electric) and plumbing fixtures;
      (19)   Fabricated structural metal products;
      (20)   Screw machine products, and bolts, nuts, screws, rivets and
washers;
      (21)   Metal stampings;
      (22)   Coating, engraving and allied services;
      (23)   Miscellaneous fabricated wire products;
      (24)   Miscellaneous fabricated metal products;
      (25)   Engines and turbines;
      (26)   Farm machinery and equipment;
      (27)   Construction, mining and materials handling machinery and
equipment;
      (28)   Metalworking machinery and equipment;
      (29)   Special industry machinery, except metalworking machinery;
      (30)   General industrial machinery and equipment;
      (31)   Office, computing and accounting machines;
      (32)   Service industry machines;
      (33)   Miscellaneous machinery, except electrical;
      (34)   Electric transmission and distribution;
      (35)   Electrical industrial apparatus;
      (36)   Household appliances;
      (37)   Electric lighting and wiring equipment;
      (38)   Radio and television receiving sets, except communication types;
      (39)   Communication equipment;
      (40)   Electronic components and accessories;
      (41)   Miscellaneous electrical machinery, equipment and supplies;
      (42)   Motor vehicles and motor vehicle equipment;
      (43)   Aircraft and parts;
      (44)   Ship and boat building and repairing;
      (45)   Railroad equipment;
      (46)   Motorcycles, bicycles and parts; and
      (47)   Miscellaneous transportation equipment.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1268.02 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses shall be allowed in the General Industrial District,
subject to approval in accordance with §
1232.02.
   (a)   Manufacturing.
      (1)   Guns, howitzers, mortars and related equipment;
      (2)   Ammunition, except for small arms;
      (3)   Tanks and tank components;
      (4)   Sighting and fire control equipment;
      (5)   Small arms;
      (6)   Small arms ammunition;
      (7)   Ordnance and accessories not elsewhere classified;
      (8)   Poultry and small game dressing and packing, wholesale;
      (9)   Industrial inorganic and organic chemicals;
      (10)   Plastic materials and synthetic resins, synthetic rubber,
synthetic and other human-made fibers, except glass;
      (11)   Drugs;
      (12)   Soaps, detergents and cleaning preparations, perfumes, cosmetics
and other toilet preparations;
      (13)   Paints, varnishes, lacquers, enamels and allied products;
      (14)   Gum and wood chemicals;
      (15)   Agricultural chemicals;
      (16)   Miscellaneous chemical products;
      (17)   Petroleum refining;
      (18)   Paving and roofing materials (petroleum, asphalt and tar);
      (19)   Miscellaneous products of petroleum and coal;
      (20)   Tires and inner tubes;
      (21)   Rubber footwear;
      (22)   Reclaimed rubber;
      (23)   Fabricated rubber products not elsewhere classified;
      (24)   Miscellaneous plastics products;
      (25)   Concrete, gypsum and plaster products;
      (26)   Abrasive, asbestos and miscellaneous nonmetallic mineral products;
      (27)   Blast furnaces, steel works and rolling and finishing mills;
      (28)   Iron and steel foundries;
      (29)   Primary smelting and refining of nonferrous metals;
      (30)   Secondary smelting and refining of nonferrous metals and alloys;
      (31)   Rolling, drawing and extruding of nonferrous metals;
      (32)   Miscellaneous primary metal industries;
      (33)   Stockyards;
      (34)   Scrap and waste materials; and
      (35)   Secondhand automotive tire, battery and accessory dealers.
   (b)   Other Industrial Uses. Any other industrial use.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1268.03 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   In addition to the provisions of
Chapter 1272, the following standards for the arrangement and development of
land and buildings are required in the General Industrial District.
   (a)   Lot Size; Use Regulations. Lot size shall be adequate to provide the
yard space required by this section and the following provisions.
      (1)   A use allowed in this district shall have its primary operation,
open storage and service areas and loading docks entirely enclosed or screened
by walls or fences at least six feet, but not more than 12 feet, in height.
Such walls or fences shall have an opaqueness of 75% or more, so as to
effectively conceal production, storage, service and loading operations from
adjoining streets and from a Residential Zoning District or a Planned
Development District as listed in §
1238.04.
      (2)   Permitted uses of this District may be developed in accordance with
the development standards of
Chapter 1266.
   (b)   Lot Width. All lots shall abut a public street for a distance of 100
feet or more and have adequate width to provide the yard space required by
these development standards.
   (c)   Side Yards. For main and accessory structures, including open
production, storage, service and loading areas, the required side yards shall
not be less than one-third the sum of the height and width of the structure and
in no case shall they be less than 100 feet from any Residential Zoning
District or Planned Development District, as listed in §
1238.04 , except when in accordance with the development standards of
Chapter 1266 .
   (d)   Rear Yards. For main and accessory structures, including open
production, storage, service and loading areas, the required rear yards shall
not be less than one-third the sum of the height and depth of the structure and
in no case shall they be less than 100 feet from any Residential Zoning
District or Planned Development District, as listed in §
1238.04 , except in accordance with the development standards of
Chapter 1266 .
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
CHAPTER 1270: OFFICE, LABORATORY AND RESEARCH DISTRICT
Section
1270.01   Permitted uses.
1270.02   Development standards.
Cross-reference:
   Adult entertainment businesses, see
Ch. 1284
   General development standards, see
Ch. 1272
   Landscaping, see
Ch. 1278
   Off-street parking and loading, see
Ch. 1282
   Signs, see
Ch. 1280
   Special districts, see
Ch. 1276
   Special permits, see
Ch. 1274
Statutory reference:
   Municipal zoning in general, see R.C. §§ 713.06 et seq.
§ 1270.01 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted in the Office, Laboratory and Research
District:
   (a)   Administrative and executive offices for personnel engaged in general
administrative, supervisory, purchasing, accounting and other functions related
to office operations; research, synthesis, analysis, development and testing
laboratories, including the fabrication, assembly, mixing and preparation of
equipment and components incident, convenient or necessary to the conduct of
such activities; and facilities for training personnel engaged in servicing of
electronic equipment and furnishing of telephone company supplies; and
   (b)   Uses normally attendant to and in support of the servicing of office,
administrative, executive, training, servicing, research and laboratory
facilities and related functions, including supply storage and private meal and
lodging facilities for personnel engaged in the training facility.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1270.02 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   In addition to the provisions of
Chapter 1272, the following standards for the arrangement and development of
land and buildings shall be required in the Office, Laboratory and Research
District.
   (a)   Lot Size; Use Regulations. Lot size shall be adequate to provide the
yard space required by this section and the following provisions.
      (1)   A use allowed in this district shall operate entirely within an
enclosed structure, emitting no dust, smoke, noxious odor or fumes outside such
structure and producing a noise level audible at the property line no greater
than the average noise level occurring on the street fronting the property.
      (2)   A use allowed in this district shall have its primary operation and
service areas and loading docks entirely enclosed or screened by walls or
fences at least six feet, but not more than 12 feet, in height. Such walls or
fences shall have an opaqueness of 75% or more, so as to effectively conceal
production, storage, service and loading operations from adjoining streets and
from a Residential Zoning District or a Planned Development District, as listed
in §
1238.04.
   (b)   Lot Width. All lots shall abut a public or private street for a
distance of 100 feet or more and have adequate width to provide the yard space
required by this section.
   (c)   Side Yards. For main and accessory structures, including open
production, storage, service and loading areas, the required side yards shall
not be less than one-half the sum of the height and width of the structure and
in no case shall they be less than 100 feet from any Residential Zoning
District or Planned Development District, as listed in §
1238.04 .
   (d)   Rear Yards. For main and accessory structures, including production,
storage, service and loading areas, required rear yards shall not be less than
one-half the sum of the height and depth of the structure and in no case shall
they be less than 100 feet from any Residential Zoning District or Planned
Development District, as listed in §
1238.04 .
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
CHAPTER 1272: GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Section
1272.01   Application of chapter.
1272.02   Lot area and yard space requirements.
1272.03   Building lines along public rights-of-way; setbacks; visibility.
1272.04   Comprehensive residential and neighborhood improvements.
1272.05   Accessory uses and structures.
1272.06   Individual sewage treatment and water supply; lot size; approval of
Board of Health.
1272.07   Public nuisance regulations.
Cross-reference:
   Adult entertainment businesses, see
Ch. 1284
   Landscaping, see
Ch. 1278
   Off-street parking and loading, see
Ch. 1282
   Signs, see
Ch. 1280
   Special districts, see
Ch. 1276
   Special permits, see
Ch. 1274
Statutory reference:
   Municipal zoning in general, see R.C. §§ 713.06 et seq.
§ 1272.01 APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   Standards pertaining generally and uniformly to the arrangement and
development of land and structures within the zoning districts established in §
1238.04 are hereby established and adopted as supplementary to the district
regulations set forth in
Chapters 1238 through
1270.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1272.02 LOT AREA AND YARD SPACE REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   Platting Required. No use shall be established or altered, and no
structure shall be constructed or altered, except upon a lot that has been
platted in accordance with or which otherwise meets the requirements of the
subdivision regulations.
   (b)   Minimum Requirements. The development standards are the minimum
requirements for the arrangement of lots and spaces to be achieved in all
developments.
   (c)   Lot Area and Yard Space. The lot area and yard space required for a
use or structure shall be maintained during its life and shall not be reduced
below the minimum requirement, be occupied by another use or structure or be
counted as yard space for any other use or structure.
      (1)   Open Yards Required. The yard space required for a use or structure
shall, during its life, remain free of all uses or occupancy, except as
follows.
         A.   Fences, walls and landscaping shall be permitted in any required
yard, or along the edge of any yard, provided that no fence or wall between a
street and a front building line is more than three feet in height, except as
required by
Chapter 1278, or in accordance with an approved development plan of a Planned
Development District.
         B.   Eaves, cornices, window sills and belt courses may project into
any required yard a distance not to exceed two feet.
         C.   Open and uncovered porches may project beyond the front building
line, or into a required rear yard, a distance not to exceed five feet.
         D.   Driveways shall be permitted in required yards, but shall be
three feet or more from any property line, except where such driveways are
developed jointly as a common drive to adjoining lots.
         E.   Parking areas shall be permitted in required yards developed in
Industrial Zoning Districts to within 15 feet of a Residential Zoning District
or a Planned Residential Zoning District, as listed in §
1238.04.
      (2)   Yards Not Otherwise Required. Yard space not otherwise required,
but provided, shall be five feet or more in width.
      (3)   Maintenance of Yards. All yard space shall be maintained in
accordance with one or more of the following provisions:
         A.   Fenced, as permitted or required;
         B.   Landscaped by lawns, shrubberies, trees and other plantings,
maintained in a neat and orderly natural state, or used for permitted accessory
or ancillary use; or
         C.   Paved for parking, as permitted.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1272.03 BUILDING LINES ALONG PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY; SETBACKS; VISIBILITY.
   (a)   Establishment of Building Lines. Along every street right-of-way a
building line shall be established from the centerline of the right-of-way a
distance equal to the width of the existing right-of- way or the width of the
right-of-way as approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
      (1)   Required Setback Defined. As used in this section, “required
setback” means that distance between the established building line and the
actual or proposed street right-of-way. No structure or other use of land,
except parking, shall be located in the required setback. In no case shall the
required setback be less than 30 feet.
      (2)   Parking Within the Required Setback. Open parking or loading spaces
shall be permitted to extend toward the street right-of-way from the
established building line a distance equal to 40% of the required setback
distance as measured from the right-of-way or the proposed right-of-way. In no
case shall any part of a parking area be closer than 15 feet to any established
or proposed right-of-way.
      (3)   Platted Setback. No structure or other use, including parking,
shall be located between the street right-of-way and the platted building line.
   (b)   Setbacks Along Freeways or Expressways. The setback for all buildings
and accessory buildings and parking along freeway and expressway rights-of-way
shall be 50 feet.
   (c)   Establishment of Sight Triangle. At every intersection of street
rights-of-way, a sight triangle shall be established. As used in this section,
“sight triangle” means the right-of-way lines of intersecting streets with the
third side being a line passing through a point on each right-of-way line that
is a distance, from their point of intersection, equal to the sum of the width
of both rights-of-way divided by four.
   (d)   Maintenance of Visibility. Within the sight triangle, clear visibility
shall be maintained between two and one-half feet and ten feet above the
average centerline grade of intersecting streets, except trunks of all existing
trees or light or sign supports. Such a support shall have a maximum dimension
of six inches or less of its horizontal section. If there are two or more
supports on a framework, they shall not have an opaqueness of more than 10%
when viewed parallel to the third side of the sight triangle. The maintenance
of clear visibility first requires that there shall be no vehicle parking or
standing space provided within the sight triangle.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1272.04 COMPREHENSIVE RESIDENTIAL AND NEIGHBORHOOD IMPROVEMENTS.
   (a)   Purpose.
      (1)   The purpose of this section shall be the enhancement of the public
health, safety and welfare by eliminating conditions favorable to pestilence,
disease and generally unsafe conditions, while at the same time improving the
quality, appearance and, most likely, the value of residential property for all
residents of the village.
      (2)   In conjunction therewith, it is important to maintain residential
areas as residential areas and to confine occupational uses to areas properly
zoned for commercial and related nonresidential uses of property.
   (b)   Home Occupations. Home occupations shall be those limited occupations
which are hereafter defined and which may be carried on in residential
neighborhoods.
      (1)   Standards for Home Occupations. No home occupation shall hereafter
be established, altered or enlarged in any Residential District, unless such
home occupation is permitted by this Zoning Code and complies with the
following restrictions or standards.
         A.   No person, other than members of the family residing on the
premises, shall be engaged in a home occupation in any residential district.
         B.   No sign shall be used in connection with a home occupation, nor
shall any display be used that will indicate from the exterior that the
building is being utilized in part for any purpose other than that of a
dwelling.
         C.   No change in the outside appearance of the building or premises
shall be made, nor shall there be any other visible evidence of the conduct of
such home occupation, which would change the essential character thereof as a
dwelling.
         D.   The space devoted for use of the home occupation must be within
the main dwelling or basement and shall occupy not more than 300 square feet.
Accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds, whether attached or unattached,
shall not be used for home occupations.
         E.   No mechanical or electrical equipment shall be used, except
normal domestic or household equipment, adding machines, typewriters, copy
machines and similar equipment, or any equipment necessary and essential to any
of the permitted home occupations.
         F.   No home occupation shall be used in such a manner as to create
offensive noise, vibration, smoke or other particular matter, heat, humidity,
glare, electronic interference or otherwise constitute a nuisance or safety
hazard to any occupant of adjacent or nearby properties.
         G.   There shall be no outdoor storage of equipment or materials used
in the home occupation.
         H.   Not more than four motor vehicles, used by customers of the home
occupation, shall be parked at the location of the home occupation at one time.
         I.   The home occupation shall not generate traffic greater in volume
than normal for a residential neighborhood.
         J.   No trucks, vans, automobile or other mobile equipment used in the
home occupation shall be parked in side or open yards, and all automobiles used
by customers shall be parked in the driveway or along the street curb abutting
the premises, unless other more satisfactory arrangements are required or
approved by Council after a public notice and hearing. Home occupation parking
on noncurbed streets is prohibited. No truck other than one van-type truck
shall be used in connection with a home occupation, unless approved by Council
after a public notice and public hearing.
      (2)   Permits. All persons conducting home occupations which are
presently existing, or which are established, changed or enlarged after the
effective date of this chapter, shall be required to obtain a permit from the
Village Engineer or his or her agent. The initial permit shall be valid for a
period of two years after the date of issuance. A renewal permit shall be
secured for each subsequent two-year period thereafter. The fee for the initial
permit shall be $20. The fee for each renewal shall be $10.
      (3)   Permitted Home Occupations. The following shall be illustrative of
permitted home occupations: handicrafts; art or music lessons; dressmaking;
millinery; laundry; preserving and home cooking. Other uses shall be permitted
by the Mayor if he or she determines that such uses are in keeping with the
intent and purpose of this section. It shall not be the intent of this section
to prohibit the maintenance by a homeowner of a private professional office
(e.g., a lawyer’s, doctor’s or architect’s) on his or her premises, provided
that the provisions of this section regarding signage, traffic and other
provisions regulating home occupations are adhered to.
   (c)   Condition of Premises; Waste Accumulation. No person shall:
      (1)   Cause or permit waste, garbage, trash or any debris, building
materials, unused tires or other material, to accumulate or remain on his or
her property, except as noted below. Trash, yard waste and recycling shall meet
the following requirements:
         A.   Trash, yard waste, and recycling in containers or bundles that
meet the trash hauler’s requirements are permitted to be placed on the driveway
or yard (not in the street) from noon the day before the scheduled day of trash
pick-up to 8:00 a.m. the day following trash pickup.
            B.   Trash cans and bundled trash must be stored out of sight from
street right-of-ways when not set out for collection. Fences or landscaping
materials may be used to conceal the cans and/or bundles. Fences and
landscaping must be 100% opaque year-round. Fences used to conceal trash cans
may be placed no further forward than a line two feet behind the adjacent front
facade of the house. The fence may not be higher than 72" above the natural
ground and each panel may be no wider than 48".
      (2)   Permit commercial vehicles or nonprivate passenger vehicles,
exceeding four, to be parked or to remain in open view upon the premises of a
residential neighborhood, except in connection with repair or construction work
being undertaken at the premises and then only during such periods of repair or
construction.
         A.   All motor vehicles at the premises, whether private, passenger,
commercial or other, shall be parked on driveways or paved areas or concealed
from public view in private garages, carports and the like. No motor vehicle
shall be parked in required yard areas of residential neighborhoods.
         B.   All motor vehicles in public view on the premises shall be in
operating condition and in compliance with all motor vehicle safety, equipment,
registration and licensing laws by displaying proper tags and validation
stickers.
         C.   Motor homes, trailers, boats and other nonprivate passenger
vehicles shall, as nearly as practicable, be concealed from public view.
      (3)   Fail to keep the exterior of all residential and commercial
premises in good condition and well-maintained, including painting, if
necessary, and such persons shall, within a reasonable time, after notice,
remove or remedy all unsightly, dirty and unsafe conditions; and
      (4)   Keep all vacant lots mowed, as often as necessary, in keeping with
the character of the neighborhood, to prevent pestilence and insect infestation
and to discourage the use of the property for dumping or landfill purposes.
         A.   All such vacant property shall be kept free of hazardous and
unhealthful accumulations of water and other conditions affecting the health
and welfare of residents of the village.
         B.   In those instances where such vacant property is being used
contrary to village zoning laws and other ordinances, the property owner, upon
notice, shall make use of appropriate remedies to prevent such unlawful use in
cooperation with village officials.
         C.   All vacant lots shall be kept seeded or maintained in such manner
as to prevent erosion of the property and excess drainage onto adjoining lands,
and shall be kept free of trash and debris.
   (d)   Corrective Action by Village Officials.
      (1)   All violations of this section, which remain uncorrected after not
less than ten days’ notice to the owner or resident, may be corrected by the
village, or by any person selected by the village, and the costs thereof shall
be paid by the owner of such property within 30 days.
      (2)   Any such charges which remain unpaid after 30 days may be collected
in any manner provided by law and shall be certified by the Mayor to the
Auditor of each county wherein such property may be located to be charged as a
lien against the property.
   (e)   Appeals. Any person affected or aggrieved by any decision made by the
Mayor in accordance with this section may appeal such decision directly to
Council, and the decision of Council shall be final.
   (f)   Motor Vehicle Repair.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section the following
definitions shall have the following specified meanings:
         A.   “Major vehicle repair.” Any maintenance, repair or replacement
not listed in the definition of “minor vehicle repair” in this division,
including, but not limited to, the removal of engines, rebuilding of engines,
repair of the internal components, repair or removal of differentials or axles,
dismantling of vehicles, and body work.
         B.   “Minor vehicle repair.” Maintenance, repair or replacement of the
alternator, generator, starter, water pump, battery, brakes or part thereof;
minor tune-up (which consists of distributor cap, rotor and spark plug
replacement); change of oil and filter, fan belt, or hoses; lamp replacement;
repair of flat tires; lubrication; vehicle cleaning such as washing; waxing;
detailing.
      (2)   Motor Vehicle Service and Repair. No person shall perform or
conduct any motor vehicle service, work, grade, occupation or business,
including, but not limited to, the servicing, repairing, assembling, wrecking,
modifying, restoring, painting or otherwise working on a motor vehicle as
defined by R.C. § 4511.01, or related thereto, on a residential lot or in any
private garage.
         A.   The performance of major vehicle repair and/or minor motor
vehicle repair of the motor vehicle registered to the resident of such lot
thereon and shall not constitute a violation of this section providing:
            1.   Such major motor vehicle repair must be performed in a fully
enclosed structure;
            2.   Such minor motor vehicle repair may be performed outside a
fully enclosed structure provided that the total continuous elapsed time
between the beginning and the end of the repair does not exceed 24 hours;
            3.   Such work shall be conducted on no more than one vehicle at
any one time and no more than two vehicles within a 14-day period;
            4.   Such work shall be done only between the hours of 8:00 a.m.
and 8:00 p.m;
            5.   Such work shall not be done in a public right-of-way;
            6.   Storage of parts, equipment, or other supplies needed for the
repair of the vehicle on the premises must be kept within an enclosed structure
or in an area which is screened from public view;
            7.   Upon completion of any work allowed by this section, the
property shall be cleaned of all debris, grease, gasoline, cloths, rags,
equipment or material used in the work, and shall be left in such a condition
that no hazard to persons or property shall remain; and
            8.   No such work which creates a nuisance as defined in §
1272.07 shall be permitted.
      (3)   Penalty. Violation or failure to comply with any of the provisions
of this section shall be considered a minor misdemeanor punishable per day per
occurrence. Nothing herein shall prevent the village from taking corrective
action or such other lawful action, including civil actions at law or equity,
including temporary restraining orders, preliminary injunctions and permanent
injunctions, as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violations.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989; Ord. 06-2017, passed 3-13-2017)
§ 1272.05 ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   Accessory uses and structures shall be permitted in association with a
principal use or structure.
   (a)   Accessory Use and Structure Defined.
      (1)   As used in this section, “accessory use and structure” means a
subordinate use or structure which is incidental to and in association with a
principal use or structure.
      (2)   Accessory structures used as storage sheds must be over six square
feet and allow a person to walk inside, however, they may not be used to store
automobiles or contain living quarters.
   (b)   Location in Residential Zoning Districts. In a Residential Zoning
District, as listed in §
1238.04 , unattached accessory structures shall be located to the rear of the
dwelling, four feet or more from the side and rear property lines and no closer
than four feet to any other structure.
   (c)   Location in Other Zoning Districts. In any zoning district other than
a Residential Zoning District, accessory uses or structures shall be on the
same lot as the principal use or structure and located subject to the
development standards of the zoning district in which it is located.
   (d)   Size, Height and Configuration. The sum total of all accessory
structures shall not be greater than 25% of the gross floor area of the
principal use structure as listed on the County Auditor’s website or cover more
than 10% of the rear yard area of the residence. Maximum size shall be 200
square feet as measured on the outside of the accessory structure walls.
Maximum height shall be 12 feet as measured from the natural ground to the
highest point. Where an accessory structure is constructed on a mound, or where
the ground under the same has been raised to a higher level than the
surrounding surface, the permissible height of the structure shall be reduced
by the height of such mound or raised surface. No door openings shall be closer
than 15 feet to a lot line. Accessory structures used for storage constructed
of fabric or plastic tarp-like materials such as temporary garages or canopies
are not allowed in any zoned property within the village. All enclosed
accessory structures must have an architectural floor built of wood, metal or
concrete.
   (e)   Permitting, Inspection and Acceptance.  
      (1)   No accessory structures may be installed or constructed without
first obtaining a permit from the Code Enforcement Officer and the Mayor or his
or her designee. All permits expire six months after issuance and are not
transferable between owners. A permit filing and a fee shall be collected in
accordance with the fee schedule established by the Council and is in force on
the date the permit filing and review fee is due and payable.
      (2)   If accessory structure construction is not declared complete by the
Code Enforcement Officer within six months from permit approval, the property
owner must re-apply for a permit. The Code Enforcement Officer or other
designee of the Mayor shall inspect the installation of an accessory structure
twice: first, upon approving the proposed location indicated by staked-out
corners of the accessory structure and second, at the final completion of the
accessory structure.
   (f)   Repair to Accessory Structures. Repairs must be equal to or better
than the original construction in materials and workmanship as determined by
the Code Enforcement Officer or other designee of the Mayor.
   (g)   Variances. Variances to the accessory structure ordinance may be
granted by Village Council after recommendation by the Planning and Zoning
Commission for conditions of hardship. Application for a variance from the
requirements of village ordinances is defined in §
1232.01 .
   (h)   Penalty. Violation or failure to comply with any of the provisions of
this section shall be considered a minor misdemeanor punishable per day per
occurrence. Nothing herein shall prevent the village from taking corrective
action or such other lawful action, including civil actions at law or equity,
including temporary restraining orders, preliminary injunctions and permanent
injunctions, as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violations.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989; Ord. 3-97, passed 7-14-1997; Ord. 5-2002, passed
10-14-2002; Ord. 03-2017, passed 6-19-2017)
§ 1272.06 INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE TREATMENT AND WATER SUPPLY; LOT SIZE; APPROVAL OF
BOARD OF HEALTH.
   (a)   Sewers and Water. A tract of land that was of record on the date of
adoption of this Zoning Code (May 8, 1989) shall not be developed with
individual sewage treatment or individual water supply without the approval of
the Franklin County District Board of Health. Approval shall be with a finding
of adequate control of water pollution and sewage disposal, in accordance with
Board of Health rules and regulations.
   (b)   Required Lot Size. The size of the lot or area provided for each
dwelling unit shall be a size or larger than as approved by the Board of
Health, but shall be not less than the minimum lot size for the zoning district
in which it is located.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1272.07 PUBLIC NUISANCE REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Prevention. Every structure or use subject to the provisions of this
Zoning Code shall be located, arranged and operated in accordance with the
following provisions so that it will not interfere with the development and
enjoyment of adjacent property.
   (b)   Limits of Development and Operation. The following limits of
development and operation are provided to control hazardous, obnoxious or other
nuisance activity relating to uses subject to the provisions of this Zoning
Code.
      (1)   Noise. Noise or vibration shall be so controlled that, at the
property line on which such noise or vibration is produced, it will not be at a
level above that normally perceptible from other developments in the area or
from the usual street traffic observed at the street right-of-way line of the
lot, except an occasional blast or shock required in normal operation and
produced in such a manner as not to create a hazard.
      (2)   Smoke. Smoke shall be controlled in its emission so as to be less
dark in shade than that designated as No. 2 on the Ringelmann Chart, published
and used by the U.S. Bureau of Mines, except that an emission above a such
level shall be permitted for a period of three minutes or less during the
operation of starting or cleaning a fire.
      (3)   Dust. Dust or particulate matter shall be controlled so as not to
produce a hazardous or obnoxious situation beyond the property lines of the lot
on which such dust or particulate matter is produced.
      (4)   Odor or Fumes. Odor or noxious fumes shall be controlled so as not
to be offensive or to create a hazard.
      (5)   Glare. Glare or heat from processing or other activity, or
lighting, shall be screened so as not to be perceptible beyond the property
lines of the lot on which such glare or heat is produced.
      (6)   Animals. No person shall keep or harbor any animal, fowl or winged
insect in the municipality so as to create noxious or offensive odors or
unsanitary or nuisance conditions which are a menace to the health, comfort or
safety of the public.
   (c)   Penalty. Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the
provisions of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
CHAPTER 1274: SPECIAL PERMITS
Section
1274.01   Purposes.
1274.02   Special permit required.
1274.03   Powers and duties of Planning and Zoning Commission.
1274.04   Appeals.
1274.05   Heliports.
1274.06   Dish antennas.
1274.07   Ground antennas.
1274.99   Penalty.
Cross-reference:
   Adult entertainment businesses, see
Ch. 1284
   General development standards, see
Ch. 1272
   Landscaping, see
Ch. 1278
   Off-street parking and loading, see
Ch. 1282
   Signs, see
Ch. 1280
   Special districts, see
Ch. 1276
Statutory reference:
   Municipal zoning in general, see R.C. §§ 713.06 et seq.
§ 1274.01 PURPOSES.
   The purpose of this chapter is to identify land uses which require a special
permit due to unique characteristics relative to the location, design, size,
operation, circulation or need of public services, and to provide supplemental
criteria which shall be applied by the Planning and Zoning Commission when
reviewing a proposed use.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1274.02 SPECIAL PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Within the village, no building, structure or premises shall be used, and no
building or structure shall be erected which is arranged, intended or designed
to be used, for any use specified in this chapter, unless a special permit has
been issued by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1274.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall have the following powers and
duties:
   (a)   To grant special permits for uses listed in this chapter where it is
shown that a special use can be granted without substantial impairment of the
general purpose and intent of the zoning district in which the use is proposed
to be located, and without significant incompatibility with the general
character of the neighborhood;
   (b)   To impose such requirements and conditions regarding the location,
character and other features of the proposed use or structure as the Commission
feels necessary to carry out the intent and purpose of this Zoning Code and to
otherwise safeguard the public safety and welfare; and
   (c)   Upon application by the Law Director, to revoke any special permit
whose condition has been violated after a notice and an opportunity to conform
have been given.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1274.04 APPEALS.
   Any applicant who is denied a special permit by the Planning and Zoning
Commission may appeal such denial directly to Council.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1274.05 HELIPORTS.
   (a)   Intent. Due to the rapid development of and the need for helicopter
services, it has been deemed appropriate that such uses require a special
permit, as required by this chapter, in order to promote the continued growth
of such services in a safe, orderly manner.
   (b)   Application for Permit. Permits for establishing and maintaining
heliports shall be issued to the owner or lessee of the heliport after approval
of a special permit by the Planning and Zoning Commission and after the
applicant has submitted an application providing written proof that:
      (1)   The heliport, when located in zoning districts other than
Residential Zoning Districts:
         A.   Has been inspected and, if applicable, approved and registered or
licensed by either the Division of Aviation of the Ohio Department of
Transportation (ODOT) or the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) for
compliance with the criteria set forth in the Transportation Laws of Ohio
Annotated With Rules and Regulations, Chapters TRa-1, TRa-2 and TRa-5, as
amended, and applicable federal regulations; and
         B.   Has received such approval and clearance from the FAA as may be
required by the Federal Aviation Regulations (FARs).
      (2)   The heliport, when located in a residential zoning district:
         A.   Complies with the requirements set forth in division (b)(1) above
for heliports located in zoning districts other than residential zoning
districts;
         B.   Shall be limited to servicing helicopters of 12,000 pounds gross
weight or less (executive-type helicopters) for the purpose of internal cargo
or personnel transportation only;
         C.   Shall be a minimum of one acre and, when in use, shall be marked
in such a way as to be clearly visible; and
         D.   Shall be a minimum of 500 feet from the nearest occupied
structure, expressway or principal arterial, minor arterial or collector street
within the village.
   (c)   Fee. A fee of $5 shall be paid to the village for each application for
a special permit to establish a heliport.
   (d)   Take-off or Landing of Helicopters. No person shall takeoff or land a
helicopter anywhere within the village, except at a heliport for which a permit
issued by the municipality, as hereinafter provided, is in force, unless such
take-off or landing is:
      (1)   Necessary for law enforcement or other public safety purposes;
      (2)   Necessary for aircraft or medical emergencies; or
      (3)   For a single or one-time landing, at a site not regularly used for
landings, when prior approval is obtained from the Mayor. Such approval shall
not be unreasonably withheld when the Ohio Department of Transportation has
issued a temporary heliport certificate for such an activity.
   (e)   Validity of Permit. All permits issued shall be valid only to the
original property owner or original lessee. If the ownership or tenancy has
changed, a new application shall be required.
   (f)   Violations. Whoever operates a helicopter, or allows the operation of
a helicopter, in violation of the provisions of this section shall be subject
to the penalty provided in §
1274.99 .
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1274.06 DISH ANTENNAS.
   (a)   Intent. This section seeks to reduce the visual impact of dish
antennas and prevent dish antennas from blocking fire lanes and utility
easements.
   (b)   Residential Districts. Within Residential Districts, the following
provisions shall apply to satellite ground stations or other antennas designed
to transmit or receive radio or television signals to or from earth satellites:
      (1)   Ground mounted satellite antennas must meet the following
provisions:
         A.   Not exceed one in number at any one address;
         B.   Be located behind the front building line or front facade
whichever is further from the street right-of-way and not exceed six feet in
height;
         C.   Be no closer than four feet to the rear or side property line;
         D.   Be no closer than one foot to any easement;
         E.   Have all associated wiring buried below grade;
         F.   Utilize a support structure consisting of one galvanized or
aluminum pipe mounted in 8" in diameter and 24" deep or larger concrete
footing;
         G.   Be capable of withstanding a wind force of up to 70 miles per
hour without the use of supporting guy wires; and
         H.   Must be removed when no longer being used.
      (2)   Roof or wall mounted satellite antennas must meet the following
provisions:
         A.   Not exceed one in number at any one address;
         B.   Such stations or antennas shall be mounted directly on the roof
or wall of the house and shall not be mounted on appurtenances such as
chimneys, towers, spires, utility poles, or trees;
         C.   Shall not extend over seven feet above the ridge line of the
house;
         D.   All associated wiring must not be visible from the ground; and
         E.   Be capable of withstand a wind force of up to 70 miles per hour
without the use of supporting guy wires.
   (c)   Commercial or Industrial Zoning Districts. A dish antenna, when
installed in any Commercial or Industrial Zoning Districts must receive a
permit originated by and approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission shall
meet the requirements of the residential zoned installation with the following
exceptions:
      (1)   Dish antenna size shall not exceed five feet in diameter;
      (2)   The top of the antenna shall not extend ten feet above grade or
surrounding roof surface; and
      (3)   Shall meet the residential requirements of an antenna installation
if it is installed within 25 feet of residentially zoned property.
   (d)   Zoning variance. A zoning variance for the installation of dish
antennas shall be required if the installation does not meet all of the
requirements of the zoned property.
   (e)   Penalty. Violation or failure to comply with any of the provisions of
this section shall be considered a minor misdemeanor punishable per day per
occurrence. Nothing herein shall prevent the village from taking corrective
action or such other lawful action, including civil actions at law or equity,
including temporary restraining orders, preliminary injunctions and permanent
injunctions, as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violations.
(Ord. 09-2017, passed 5-22-2017)
§ 1274.07 GROUND ANTENNAS.
   (a)   Cellular phone antennas, television antennas, radio antennas, citizens
band (CB) antennas and other antennas that receive ground oriented
electromagnetic waves, shall be required to receive a permit. They shall meet
the following requirements.
      (1)   They shall follow the Federal Aviation Administration height
restrictions.
      (2)   They shall be set back at least ten feet from all property lines.
      (3)   They shall be constructed to withstand a wind force of up to 70
mph.
      (4)   They shall be placed behind the building setback line.
      (5)   They shall meet all applicable Building Code requirements.
   (b)   Cellular phone antennas, television antennas, radio antennas, citizen
band (CB) antennas and other antennas in residential districts, shall be exempt
from receiving a permit if they meet the following requirements.
      (1)   They do not exceed 17 feet above the peak of the roof of the
principal residential structure, including roof-mounted antennas.
      (2)   They are built to withstand a wind force of up to 70 mph.
      (3)   Ground-mounted antennas are set back at least ten feet from all
property lines.
      (4)   Roof-mounted antennas are set back at least seven feet from all
property lines.
      (5)   They are placed behind the building setback line.
      (6)   They meet all applicable Building Code requirements.
§ 1274.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates §
1274.05 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree for each offense.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
CHAPTER 1276: SPECIAL DISTRICTS
Section
1276.01   Establishment; district regulations.
1276.02   Development standards; procedure for placing land; special uses.
1276.03   Floodplain regulations.
Cross-reference:
   Adult entertainment businesses, see
Ch. 1284
   General development standards, see
Ch. 1272
   Landscaping, see
Ch. 1278
   Off-street parking and loading, see
Ch. 1282
   Signs, see
Ch. 1280
   Special permits, see
Ch. 1274
Statutory reference:
   Municipal zoning in general, see R.C. §§ 713.06 et seq.
§ 1276.01 ESTABLISHMENT; DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Establishment. Districts providing for the use or development of land
for certain purposes or under certain conditions, as hereinafter specified, are
hereby established.
   (b)   District Regulations. Regulations pertaining to the use or development
of land in Special Districts shall be as provided for in this chapter.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1276.02 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS; PROCEDURE FOR PLACING LAND; SPECIAL USES.
   (a)   Development Standards. The provisions of
Chapter 1272  shall pertain to Special Districts. Because of the unique nature
and requirements of the uses in Special Districts, and because their locations
cannot be readily predetermined, appropriate development standards cannot be
set forth, but development standards, requirements and other provisions of this
Zoning Code, as they may be appropriate, shall be used.
   (b)   Procedure. The following procedure shall be followed when placing land
in a Special District.
      (1)   Development Plan. Three copies of a development plan shall be
submitted to the Clerk of the Planning and Zoning Commission with the
application for amendment of the Zoning District Map. Such plan shall include,
in text or map form:
         A.   The proposed location and size of areas of use, indicating the
size, location and type of structure;
         B.   The proposed location, size and use of all open areas landscaped
and other open spaces, with suggested ownership of such areas;
         C.   The proposed provision of water, sanitary sewer and surface
drainage facilities, including engineering feasibility or other evidence of
reasonableness;
         D.   The proposed circulation pattern, including streets, both public
and private, parking areas, walks and other accessways, including their
relation to topography and existing streets, and other evidence of
reasonableness;
         E.   The proposed schedule of site development and construction of
buildings and associated facilities, including sketches or other documentation
indicating design principles or concepts for site development, buildings,
landscapes or other features. Such schedule shall include the use or
redevelopment of existing features, such as structures, streets, easements,
utility lines and land uses;
         F.   The relationship of the proposed development to the existing and
future land use in the surrounding area, the street system, community
facilities and services and other public improvements; and
         G.   Evidence that the applicant has sufficient control over the land
to effectuate the proposed development plan within three years. Such control
includes property rights, economic resources and engineering feasibility, as
may be necessary.
      (2)   Basis of Approval. The basis of approval for a Special District
shall be:
         A.   The proposed development is consistent in all respects with the
purpose, intent and applicable standards of this Zoning Code;
         B.   The proposed development is in conformity with a comprehensive
plan or a portion thereof, as it may apply; and
         C.   The proposed development advances the general welfare of the
village and that the benefits to be derived from the proposed use justify the
change in the land use character of the area.
      (3)   Effect of Approval. The development plan, as approved by Council,
shall constitute an amendment of the Zoning District Map and a supplement to
the Special District regulations, as they apply to the land included in the
approved amendment. Such approval shall be for a period of three years to allow
for the preparation of a subdivision plat, submitted in accordance with the
subdivision regulations, if required, or, if no plat is required for the
completion of the development plan, for an application for a certificate of
zoning compliance to be made. If a plat is not submitted and filed, and if a
certificate of zoning compliance is not applied for and used, within the three-
year period, the approval shall be voided and the land shall revert to its
previous zoning district, unless an application for a time extension is
submitted and approved in accordance with division (b)(4) below.
      (4)   Time Extension; Modification of Plan. An extension of the time
limit or a modification of the approved development plan may be approved by
Council. Such approval shall be given upon a finding of the purpose and
necessity for such extension or modification and evidence of reasonable effort
toward the accomplishment of the original development plan, provided that such
extension or modification is not in conflict with the general health, safety
and welfare of the public or the development standards of a Special District.
   (c)   Special Uses. The following listed uses shall be subject to Special
District regulations, as set forth in this section, except as they may be
permitted by other provisions of this Zoning Code:
      (1)   Transportation. Airports or flying fields, transportation
terminals, depots or other transportation facilities not exempt from
regulation;
      (2)   Recreation and Amusement.
         A.   Amusement centers, amusement parks, skating rinks, miniature golf
courses, swimming pools, drive-in theaters or similar facilities;
         B.   Athletic fields, stadiums, race tracks or similar sports
facilities not otherwise allowed by the provisions of this Zoning Code;
         C.   Golf clubs, country clubs, fishing clubs or lakes, gun clubs,
riding stables, including the boarding of animals, or similar recreational
facilities operated on an admission fee or membership basis; and
         D.   Resort establishments, parks, camping or boating facilities,
picnic grounds or similar recreational facilities operated on an admission fee
or membership basis.
      (3)   Social and Cultural Institutions.
         A.   Cemeteries or crematories not otherwise allowed by the provisions
of this Zoning Code;
         B.   Hospitals, sanitoriums, convalescent homes, rest homes or homes
for children or the aged not otherwise allowed by the provisions of this Zoning
Code; and
         C.   Private schools or colleges, including those with students or
faculty in residence, not otherwise allowed by the provisions of this Zoning
Code.
      (4)   Unique or Exceptional Uses. Other legal uses of unique or
exceptional requirements or circumstances that are otherwise not permitted by
this Zoning Code.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1276.03 FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Intent. The following provisions pertaining to the use and development
of lands subject to periodic flooding are provided to encourage the use and
development of such lands in a manner so as to reduce the perils of flooding
and to promote the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (b)   Zones. The floodplain shall be divided into two zones as follows:
      (1)   Restricted Zone. The floodway necessary to preserve the natural
capacity of a channel for flood water; and
      (2)   Limited Zone. The low-lying area on each side of the restricted
zone where flooding is of sufficient frequency to require proofing of
structures against flood loss.
   (c)   Zone Boundaries. Zone boundaries shall be determined by the Village
Engineer and based upon publications of the Ohio Department of Natural
Resources pertaining to floods and other appropriate information.
   (d)   Change of Zone Boundaries. Zone boundaries shall only be decreased
subject to the provision of flood control or protection works and a finding by
the Village Engineer that such control or protection is adequate to prevent
flooding of the land being removed from regulation under this section.
   (e)   Development Standards. In addition to the provisions of the
established zoning district, the following standards for the arrangement and
development of land and buildings are required under this section.
      (1)   Restricted Zone. Within the restricted zone, the use and
development of land shall be conducted in such a manner as not to fill the
specified channel or otherwise restrict the flow of flood waters and shall be
subject to the approval of the Village Engineer.
      (2)   Limited Zone. Within the limited zone, the use shall be so
developed as to proof the use or structure against flood damage, by elevating
it above the prescribed level or by other appropriate means, and shall be
subject to the approval of the Village Engineer.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
CHAPTER 1278: LANDSCAPING
Section
1278.01   Intent.
1278.02   Purpose.
1278.03   Sites affected.
1278.04   Minimum landscape requirements; noncompliance.
1278.05   Landscape materials; maintenance and installation; violations.
1278.06   Submission and contents of landscape plan; posting of bond or
irrevocable letter of credit; planting period; noncompliance.
1278.07   Appeals; variances.
1278.08   Street tree planting requirements; violations.
Cross-reference:
   Adult entertainment businesses, see
Ch. 1284
   General development standards, see
Ch. 1272
   Off-street parking and loading, see
Ch. 1282
   Signs, see
Ch. 1280
   Special districts, see
Ch. 1276
   Special permits, see
Ch. 1274
Statutory reference:
   Municipal zoning in general, see R.C. §§ 713.06 et seq.
§ 1278.01 INTENT.
   The intent of this chapter is to improve the appearance of vehicular use
areas and property abutting public rights-of-way; to require buffering between
noncompatible land uses; to protect, preserve and promote the aesthetic appeal,
character and value of surrounding neighborhoods; and to promote public health
and safety through the reduction of noise pollution, air pollution, visual
pollution, air temperature and artificial light glare.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1278.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to specifically promote the preservation and
replacement of trees and significant vegetation removed in the course of land
development, and to promote the proper utilization of landscaping, as an ease
between certain land uses, to minimize nuisances.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1278.03 SITES AFFECTED.
   (a)   New Sites. No certificate of zoning compliance or building permit
shall be issued for any site development or for the construction or improvement
of any building, structure or vehicular use, except where the landscaping for
such development, construction or improvement has been approved, as required by
the provisions of this chapter. Single-family uses shall be exempt from the
requirements of §
1278.04 (d)(2), but all other requirements of this chapter shall apply, unless
single-family uses are clearly exempt. However, any person with such a single-
family use may request a variance from the provisions of this chapter, for any
demonstrated hardship, from the Mayor or his or her designee.
   (b)   Existing Sites. No building, structure or vehicular use area shall be
constructed or expanded, unless the minimum landscaping required by the
provisions of this chapter is provided to the property to the extent of the
alteration or expansion and not for the entire property of which the alteration
or expansion is a part, unless the alteration or expansion is substantial. An
alteration or expansion to an existing property is substantial when:
      (1)   In the case of a building or structure the expansion of which does
not involve additional land, the square footage of the alteration or expansion
exceeds 25% of the square footage of the existing building, exclusive of the
alteration or expansion; and
      (2)   In the case of an alteration or expansion involving both an
existing building or structure and additional land and, if applicable,
additional structures or buildings, the area or square footage of the expanded
or altered land, structure or building, respectively, exceeds 25% of the area
or square footage of the existing land, structure or building, respectively,
exclusive of the alteration or expansion. As used in this division, “land”
includes land used for space, parking or building purposes.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1278.04 MINIMUM LANDSCAPE REQUIREMENTS; NONCOMPLIANCE.
   (a)   Establishment. This section establishes the minimum requirements that
shall be met in regard to perimeter landscaping for noncompatible land use
areas, landscaping for service areas and interior landscaping for businesses,
buildings, structures or other new developments of the land, are hereby
established.
   (b)   Perimeter Landscaping Requirements. Unless otherwise provided,
landscape materials shall be installed to provide a minimum of 50% winter
opacity and 70% summer opacity, between one foot above the finished grade level
to the top of the required planting, hedge, fence, wall or earth mound, within
four years after installation. The required landscaping shall be provided
either in easements in certain zones or adjacent to vehicular use area.
      (1)   Landscape Buffer Zone. The landscape buffer zone and materials
required adjacent to any street, under this chapter, shall be provided by the
property owner adjoining the street, unless the authority building the street
has fully met all requirements on the street right-of-way. When adjacent to
other common boundaries, the landscape buffer zone and materials:
         A.   May be placed on either adjoining parcel, or astride the
boundary, if both are owned and are being processed by the same owner;
         B.   May be placed astride the boundary of adjoining parcels having
different owners if a written agreement, signed by both owners, is filed with
the Planning and Zoning Commission and kept as a public record; or
         C.   Shall not be required along the common boundary if the
requirements of this chapter have been fully complied with on the adjoining
property.
      (2)   Buffer Zone Conflicts. The required landscape buffer zone may be
combined with a utility or other easement as long as all of the landscape
requirements can be provided in addition to, and separate from, any other
easement. Cars or other objects shall not overhang or otherwise intrude upon
the required landscape buffer zone more than two and one-half feet and wheel
stops or curbs shall be required.
      (3)   Existing Landscape Materials. Existing landscape materials shall be
shown on the required plan, and any material in satisfactory condition may be
used to satisfy these requirements, in whole or in part, when, in the opinion
of Council, such materials meet the requirements and achieve the objectives of
this chapter.
      (4)   Landscaping at Driveway and Street Intersections. To ensure that
landscape materials do not constitute a driving hazard, a sight triangle shall
be observed at all street intersections or intersections of driveways with
streets. Within this sight triangle, no landscape material, except for required
grass or ground cover, nor parked vehicles, shall be permitted. Within the
sight triangle, trees shall be permitted as long as only the tree trunk is
visible between the ground and eight feet above the ground, except during early
growth stages, or otherwise does not present a traffic visibility hazard. The
sight triangle is defined in divisions (a)(4)A. and (a)(4)B. below and is
illustrated in Appendix A, following the text of this Zoning Code.
         A.   Driveway Intersection Sight Triangle. At intersections of
driveways with streets, the sight triangle shall be established by locating the
intersection of the street curb with the driveway edge and by measuring, from
this point, a distance of ten feet along the driveway to a point and a distance
of 20 feet along the street curb to a point and connecting these points.
         B.   Street Intersection Sight Triangle. At street intersections, the
sight triangle shall be formed by measuring at least 35 feet along curb lines
and connecting these points.
   (c)   Interior Landscaping for Vehicular Use Areas. Any open vehicular use
area, excluding loading, unloading and storage areas in an industrial zone or
business zone, containing more than 6,000 square feet of area or 20 or more
vehicular parking spaces, shall provide interior landscaping in addition to the
previously required perimeter landscaping. Interior landscaping may be of the
peninsular or island type.
      (1)   Landscape Area. For each 100 square feet, or fraction thereof, of
vehicular use area, a minimum total of five square feet of landscaped area
shall be provided.
         A.   Minimum Area. The minimum landscape area permitted shall be 64
square feet with a four-foot minimum dimension to all trees from the edge of
the pavement where vehicles overhang.
         B.   Maximum Contiguous Area. In order to encourage the required
landscape area to be properly dispersed, no individual landscape area shall be
larger than 350 square feet in size, and no individual area shall be larger
than 1,500 square feet in vehicular use areas over 30,000 square feet. In both
cases, the least dimension of any required area shall be four feet to all trees
from the edge of the pavement where vehicles overhang. Individual landscape
areas larger than those prescribed are permitted as long as the additional area
is in excess of the required minimum total.
      (2)   Trees.
         A.   The following minimums for the planting of trees are required,
based upon total ground coverage of structures and vehicular use areas:
            1.   Up to 20,000 Square Feet. A minimum of one tree per 5,000
square feet of ground coverage and a total tree planting equal to one inch in
tree trunk size for every 2,000 square feet of ground coverage;
            2.   Over 20,000 to 50,000 Square Feet. A minimum of one tree for
every 5,000 square feet of ground coverage and a total tree planting equal to
ten inches plus one-half inch in tree trunk size for every 2,000 square feet
over 20,000 square feet in ground coverage; and
            3.   Over 50,000 Square Feet. A minimum of one tree for every 5,000
square feet of ground coverage and a total tree planting equal to 25 inches,
plus one-half inch in tree trunk size for every 4,000 square feet over 50,000
square feet in ground coverage.
         B.   Trees shall have a clear trunk of at least five feet above the
ground, and the remaining area shall be landscaped with shrubs or ground cover
not to exceed two feet in height.
      (3)   Vehicle Overhang. Parked vehicles may hang over the interior
landscaped area no more than two and one-half feet as long as concrete or other
wheel stops are provided to ensure no greater overhang or penetration of the
landscaped area. See Appendix B.
   (d)   Dumpsters (Service Structures) Screening. All dumpsters shall be
screened on all sides including the gate wherever it is located. Dumpsters may
be grouped together. However, screening height requirements shall be based upon
the tallest of the dumpsters.
      (1)   Location of Screening. A continuous (having 100% opacity) planting,
hedge or fence, which would enclose any dumpster that must be frequently moved,
shall be one foot higher than the height of the enclosed dumpster, but shall
not be required to exceed ten feet in height. Whenever a dumpster is located
next to a building wall, a perimeter landscaping material or a vehicular use
area landscaping material, such wall or screening material may fulfill the
screening requirements for that side of the dumpster if such wall or screening
material is of an average height sufficient to meet the height requirement set
forth in this section. Whenever dumpsters are screened by plant material, such
material may count towards the fulfillment of required interior or perimeter
landscaping.
      (2)   Curbs to Protect Screening Material. Whenever screening material is
placed around a dumpster which is emptied or removed mechanically on a
regularly occurring basis, a curb to contain the placement of the container
shall be provided within the screening material on those sides where there is
such material. The curbing shall be at least one foot from the material and
shall be designed to prevent possible damage to the screening when the dumpster
is moved or emptied.
      (3)   Permitting, Inspection and Acceptance. 
         A.   No dumpster screening may be installed or constructed without
first obtaining a permit from the Code Enforcement Officer and the Mayor or his
or her designee.
         B.   A permit filing and a fee shall be collected in accordance with
the fee schedule established by the Council and in force on the date the permit
filing and review fee is due and payable.
         C.   All permits expire six months after issuance and are not
transferable between owners.
         D.   Use of service structures and dumpsters shall require the
following:
            1.   The gate must remain closed when not being loaded or unloaded;
            2.   No trash may be placed beside or on top of the dumpster; and
            3.   Dumpster enclosures may be locked or unlocked; however, all
measures shall be taken to prevent unauthorized dumping or placing of trash
near or against dumpster screening.
         E.   Dumpster screening installation shall be inspected by the Code
Enforcement Officer or other designee of the Mayor twice: first, when the post
holes have been dug or other screening material location has been laid out and
second, at the completion of the screening construction. Only after the Code
Enforcement officer or other designee of the Mayor has approved the completed
dumpster screening will the Planning and Zoning Commission accept the screening
as a permanent improvement on any lot, part of a lot or combination of lots.
      (4)   Repair. Repair to dumpster screening that requires the replacement
of posts or greater than 50% of the screening material requires an accessory
structure permit at one half the cost of a new dumpster screening permit.
   (e)   Variances. Variances to the fence ordinance may be granted by Village
Council after recommendation by the Planning and Zoning Commission for
conditions of hardship. Application for a variance from the requirements of
village ordinances is defined in §
1232.01 .
   (f)   Penalty. Violation or failure to comply with any of the provisions of
this section shall be considered a minor misdemeanor punishable per day per
occurrence. Nothing herein shall prevent the village from taking corrective
action or such other lawful action, including civil actions at law or equity,
including temporary restraining orders, preliminary injunctions and permanent
injunctions, as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violations.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989; Ord. 04-2017, passed 6-19-2017)
§ 1278.05 LANDSCAPE MATERIALS; MAINTENANCE AND INSTALLATION; VIOLATIONS.
   The proposed landscape materials should complement the form of existing
trees and plantings, as well as the development’s general design and
architecture. The type of shade or sun should be considered when selecting
plant materials.
   (a)   Walls and Fences. To comply with
Chapter 1464 of the Building and Housing Code, for any proposed new building,
residential or otherwise, where stone fencing exists, such stone fencing shall
be retained and improved as part of the approved landscaping.
   (b)   Earth Mounds. As used in this division (b), “earth mounds” means
physical barriers which block or screen the view, similar to a hedge, fence or
wall. Earth mounds shall be constructed with proper and adequate plant material
to prevent erosion. A difference in elevation between areas requiring screening
does not constitute an existing earth mound and shall not be considered as
fulfilling any screening requirements.
   (c)   Plants. Artificial plants are prohibited. All plant materials shall be
living plants and shall meet the following requirements.
      (1)   Quality. Plant materials used in conformance with the provisions of
this chapter shall conform to the standards of the American Association of
Nurserymen and shall have passed any inspections required under state
regulations.
      (2)   Deciduous Trees. Trees which normally shed their leaves in the fall
shall be species having an average mature crown spread of greater than 15 feet
in central Ohio and having trunks which can be maintained with over five feet
of clear wood in areas which have visibility requirements, except at vehicular
use area intersections where the eight-foot clear wood requirement shall
control. Trees having an average mature crown spread of less than 15 feet may
be substituted by a grouping of the same so as to create the equivalent of a 15
foot crown spread. A minimum of ten feet of overall height or a minimum
caliper, trunk diameter, measured six inches above ground for trees up to four
inches caliper, of at least one and three-fourths inches, immediately after
planting, shall be required. Trees of a species whose roots are known to cause
damage to public roadways or other public works shall not be planted closer
than 15 feet to such public works, unless the tree root system is completely
contained within a barrier whose minimum interior containing depth is five feet
and which is constructed of four-inch thick reinforced concrete.
      (3)   Evergreen Trees. Evergreen trees shall be a minimum of five feet
high with a minimum caliper of one and one-half inches immediately after
planting.
      (4)   Shrubs and Hedges. Shrubs and hedges shall conform to the opacity
and other requirements set forth in this chapter within four years after
planting.
      (5)   Vines. Vines shall be at least 12 or 15 inches high at planting and
shall generally be used in conjunction with walls or fences.
      (6)   Grass or Ground Cover. Grass of the fescue (Gramineae) or bluegrass
(Poaceae) family shall be planted in species normally grown as permanent lawns
in central Ohio and may be sodded or seeded, except in swales or other areas
subject to erosion, where solid sod, erosion-reducing net or suitable mulch
shall be used. Nurse-grass seed shall be sown for immediate protection until
complete coverage is otherwise achieved. Grass sod shall be clean and free of
weeds and noxious pests or diseases. Ground cover shall be planted in such a
manner as to present a finished appearance and as to result in 75% of complete
coverage after a complete growing season, with a maximum of eight inches on
center. In certain cases, ground cover may also consist of rocks, pebbles, sand
and similarly approved materials.
   (d)   Maintenance and Installation. All landscaping materials shall be
installed in a sound, workmanlike manner and according to accepted, good
construction and planting procedures. The owner of the property shall be
responsible for the continued proper maintenance of all landscaping materials
and shall keep them in a proper, neat and orderly appearance, free from refuse
and debris at all times. All unhealthy or dead plant material shall be replaced
within one year or by the next planting period, whichever comes first, while
other defective landscape material shall be replaced or repaired within three
months.
   (e)   Violations. A violation of any of the provisions of this section shall
be grounds for the Building Inspector to refuse a building occupancy permit or
to institute legal proceedings.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1278.06 SUBMISSION AND CONTENTS OF LANDSCAPE PLAN; POSTING OF BOND OR
IRREVOCABLE LETTER OF CREDIT; PLANTING PERIOD; NONCOMPLIANCE.
   (a)   Submission of Landscape Plan. Whenever any property is affected by the
landscape requirements set forth in this chapter, the property owner or
developer shall prepare a landscape plan for submittal to the Planning and
Zoning Commission for review. Where such a plan is a part of an application for
rezoning, a variance, a conditional use or another matter which must be
approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission and Council, such plan shall be
submitted to the Village Engineer for review 15 days before the first meeting
of the approving body, or along with the application if there are other
required plans. All other landscape plans shall be approved by the Planning and
Zoning Commission prior to the issuance of a building permit.
   (b)   Contents of Landscape Plan. The contents of the landscape plan shall
include the following:
      (1)   A plot plan, drawn to an easily readable scale of not less than one
inch equals 20 feet, showing and labeling, by name and dimensions all existing
and proposed property lines, easements, buildings and other structures,
vehicular use areas, including parking stalls, driveways, service areas, square
footage and the like, locations of structures on adjoining parcels, water
outlets and landscape materials, including their botanical name and their
common name, installation size, on-center planting dimensions, where
applicable, quantities for all plants used and all existing trees;
      (2)   Typical elevations and/or cross-sections, as may be required; and
      (3)   The title block with all pertinent names and addresses, including
the property owner and the person drawing the plan, the scale, the date, the
north arrow, generally oriented so that north is to the top of the plan, and
the zoning district.
   (c)   Posting of Bond or Irrevocable Letter of Credit. Where landscaping is
required, no building permit shall be issued until the required landscaping
plan has been submitted and approved, and no certificate of occupancy shall be
issued until the landscaping is completed and certified by an on-site
inspection by the Building Inspector, unless a performance bond or an
irrevocable letter of credit from a banking institution has been posted. If the
required landscaping has not been completed and a temporary certificate of
occupancy is issued, a performance bond or an irrevocable letter of credit from
a banking institution shall be posted at that time.
   (d)   Planting Period. After a bond or an irrevocable letter of credit has
been posted, the landscaping material required in the approved landscaping plan
shall be installed within six months after the date of such posting. A one-
month extension of the planting period may be granted by the Building Inspector
upon demonstration by the property owner or developer that such an extension is
warranted because of adverse weather conditions or the unavailability of
required plant materials. No more than three such one-month extensions may be
granted.
   (e)   Noncompliance. Foreclosure proceedings shall be brought against the
performance bond or the irrevocable letter of credit if the required
landscaping plans have not been complied with by the end of the approved
planting period.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1278.07 APPEALS; VARIANCES.
   (a)   Appeals. The disapproval of a landscape plan by the Planning and
Zoning Commission may be appealed according to the procedure provided for in
Chapter 1234. Council may, upon request of any aggrieved party, review the
decision of the Commission and modify such decision if it finds hardship or
inconsistency.
   (b)   Variances. Council, in its review of the recommendations on variance
requests, shall base its recommendations on all of the following criteria:
      (1)   The specific conditions, in detail, which are unique to the
applicant’s land and do not exist on other land within the same zone;
      (2)   The manner in which the strict application of the provisions of
this chapter would deprive the applicant of a reasonable use of the land in a
manner equivalent to the use which other landowners in the same zone are
permitted;
      (3)   A finding that the unique conditions and circumstances are not the
result of actions of the applicant subsequent to the adoption of this chapter;
and
      (4)   Reasons that the variance shall preserve, not harm, the public
safety and welfare and shall not alter the essential character of the
neighborhood.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1278.08 STREET TREE PLANTING REQUIREMENTS; VIOLATIONS.
   (a)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      (1)   “Large tree.” Any tree species which normally attains a full-grown
height in excess of 50 feet.
      (2)   “Medium tree.” Any tree species which normally attains a full-grown
height of between 25 and 50 feet.
      (3)   “Person.” Any individual, corporation, partnership, company,
contracting firm or other entity.
      (4)   “Small tree.” Any tree species which normally attains a full-grown
height of under 25 feet.
   (b)   Requirements for All Zoning Districts. The following are street tree
planting requirements for all zoning districts.
      (1)   General Requirements. All subdividers in all zoning districts shall
plant trees along the public streets of their developments in such a manner,
type, quantity and location as approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission
and as defined by the following conditions. Any undeveloped street or existing
street with undeveloped frontage shall conform to these requirements at the
time of development.
         A.   The tree to be planted shall not be an undesirable tree species,
as listed in Appendix C - Recommended Trees for the Village of Minerva Park,
following the text of this Zoning Code.
         B.   The minimum spacing between the tree to be planted and other
trees shall be 45 feet for large trees, 35 feet for medium trees and 25 feet
for small trees.
         C.   The minimum distance between the tree to be planted and the edge
of the street shall be two and one-half feet for a large tree, two feet for a
medium tree and one and one-half feet for a small tree. In areas where a
sidewalk exists or is proposed, the minimum distance between the tree and both
the edge of the street and the sidewalk shall be two feet for large and medium
trees and one and one-half feet for a small tree.
         D.   The tree shall be located at least 20 feet from street
intersections and ten feet from fire hydrants or utility poles.
         E.   A small tree shall be used when planting under or within ten
lateral feet of overhead utility wires. A small or medium tree shall be used
when planting within ten or 20 lateral feet of overhead utility wires.
         F.   The developer shall be required to maintain the trees for one
year after the trees are planted and to replace any tree which dies within the
one-year guarantee period. Upon completion of a street tree planting, the
landscape contractor shall contact the Planning and Zoning Commission for a
preliminary inspection. The guarantee period shall begin after the approval of
the Commission. A final inspection shall be made at the end of the guarantee
period. All trees not exhibiting a healthy, vigorous growing condition, as
determined by the inspection, shall be promptly replaced at the expense of the
developer.
         G.   The trees should be of one and the same genus and species planted
continuously down each street, as determined by the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
         H.   The minimum trunk caliper, measured at six inches above the
ground for all street trees, shall be one and one-half inches.
         I.   The maximum spacing between large trees shall be 50 feet, between
medium trees, 40 feet, and between small trees, 30 feet.
      (2)   Topping. No person shall, as a normal practice, top any tree within
the public right-of- way. As used in this division (b)(2), “topping” means the
severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than three inches in diameter
within the tree’s crown to such a degree as to remove the normal canopy and
disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by storms or other causes, or trees
under utility wires or other obstructions where other pruning practices are
impractical, are hereby exempted from the provisions of this division (b)(2).
      (3)   Height of Limbs over Sidewalks and Streets.
         A.   Tree limbs extending over a sidewalk shall be trimmed to such an
extent that no portion of the same shall be less than seven feet above the
sidewalk. Tree limbs extending over streets shall be trimmed to such an extent
that no portion of the same shall interfere with the normal flow of traffic.
         B.   The village shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and
remove trees, plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys,
avenues, lanes and other public grounds, as may be necessary, to ensure the
public safety or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public
grounds.
      (4)   Size of Tree Lawn. No person shall, by any type of construction,
reduce the size of a tree lawn without first obtaining permission therefor from
the Planning and Zoning Commission.
      (5)   Violations. Whoever removes, damages or causes to be removed or
damaged a public tree from a tree lawn or other public place shall be required
to replace the tree at his or her own expense. The replacement tree shall have
a minimum diameter of two and one-half inches. The requirement provided for
herein shall be in addition to the penalty provided in §
1232.99 .
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
CHAPTER 1280: SIGNS
Section
1280.01   Purpose; intent.
1280.02   Sign defined; compliance.
1280.03   Exempted signs.
1280.04   General requirements.
1280.05   Permanent signs.
1280.06   Table of area, height and setback requirements.
1280.07   Temporary signs.
1280.08   Special conditions.
1280.09   Permits; fees; reinspection and maintenance.
1280.10   Abandoned signs.
Cross-reference:
   Adult entertainment businesses, see
Ch. 1284
   General development standards, see
Ch. 1272
   Landscaping, see
Ch. 1278
   Off-street parking and loading, see
Ch. 1282
   Special districts, see
Ch. 1276
   Special permits, see
Ch. 1274
Statutory reference:
   Municipal zoning in general, see R.C. §§ 713.06 et seq.
§ 1280.01 PURPOSE; INTENT.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the general health, safety and
welfare of the community by providing an instrument for protecting the physical
appearance of the community and for encouraging high quality, effective outdoor
graphics for purposes of navigation, information and identification.
Specifically, it is the intent of this chapter to provide businesses in the
village with equitable sign standards in accordance with fair competition and
aesthetic standards acceptable to the community, and to provide the public with
a safe and effective means of locating businesses, services, areas and points
of interest in the village. This chapter is based on the premise that signs are
as much subject to control as noise, odors, debris and similar characteristics
of land use and that if they are not controlled and regulated they can become a
nuisance to adjacent properties or to the community in general or depreciate
the value of other properties in the community.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1280.02 SIGN DEFINED; COMPLIANCE.
   As used in this chapter, “sign” means any name, number, symbol,
identification, description, display or illustration which is affixed to,
painted on, or represented directly or indirectly upon, a building, structure
or other device and which directs attention to any object, product, place,
activity, person, institution, organization or business. “Sign” includes back-
lighted plastic panels or strip lighting affixed to any wall or roof where any
such panels or lighting serves to identify a business and attract attention
rather than to illuminate space for human activity. All signs located on land
within or hereafter annexed to the village and visible from any public right-
of-way or adjacent property shall comply with this chapter, unless specifically
exempted in §
1280.03. Every building must display its assigned postal street number clearly.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1280.03 EXEMPTED SIGNS.
   The following signs are exempt from the provisions of this chapter and are
not subject to permit requirements:
   (a)   The flag, pennant or insignia of any nation, state, city or other
political unit;
   (b)   Signs of a duly constituted governmental body, including traffic or
similar regulatory devices, legal notices or warnings at railroad crossings;
   (c)   Signs in the nature of cornerstones, commemorative tables and
historical signs, provided that such signs are limited to six square feet or
less and are not illuminated;
   (d)   Signs clearly in the nature of decorations customarily associated with
any national, state, local or religious holiday, to be limited to 30 days in
any one year and to be displayed for not more than 30 consecutive days. Such
signs may be illuminated, provided that no safety or visibility hazards are
created;
   (e)   Political signs or posters concerning candidates for elective office,
public issues and similar matters to be decided by public election, provided
that they are displayed no more than 30 days prior to an election and removed
no later than seven days after such election. Such signs shall not exceed six
square feet in size, shall not be illuminated in any manner, shall not create a
safety or visibility hazard, shall not be affixed to any public utility pole,
tree or natural object, and shall not be located within a public right-of-way;
   (f)   Signs not exceeding one square foot in area, bearing only property
numbers, postal box numbers or names of occupants of premises;
   (g)   Signs indicating the sale, rental or lease of real estate, provided
that such signs are limited in size to seven square feet with one sign per
street front. Such signs shall be placed on the property to be sold, rented or
leased and shall not be placed in a public right-of-way. Such signs shall be
removed within 14 days after the sale, rental or lease has occurred;
   (h)   Signs for the promotion of school, community service or church
activities for a maximum period of 15 days per activity. No one sponsor shall
display a promotional sign for more than 30 days in any one year;
   (i)   Signs incorporated into a window display of a business, provided that
such window display signs are:
      (1)   Limited to 10% of the total first floor window area, up to a
maximum of four square feet, with no more than one such sign per window;
      (2)   Placed only in ground level windows;
      (3)   Illuminated only from a concealed source; and
      (4)   Erected for a period not to exceed 30 days each.
   (j)   Traffic and directional signs indicating points of entry or exit for a
facility or off-street parking area, provided that such signs are limited to
four square feet in area and three feet in height, do not interfere with safe
traffic circulation, do not interfere with or obstruct the view of drivers
exiting onto highways or thoroughfares and contain no information other than
the word “in”, “enter”, “entrance”, “out” or “exit” and/or arrows indicating
the desired traffic movement; and
   (k)   Window signage with a total area of less than two square feet and
bearing only information about entry and exit, business hours and/or discount
and credit systems accepted in that establishment (e.g., American Express,
Master Card, Visa, Golden Buckeye Card).
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1280.04 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   Location. No sign shall be placed in a public right-of-way, except for
those properties within the Central Business District, or in public parks or
any other public property, or on utility poles, trees or natural objects. No
sign shall be located in such a way that it obscures traffic-control signs,
obstructs the view of approaching or intersecting traffic or interferes with
the visibility or safety of vehicles or pedestrians entering, leaving or
crossing a public right-of-way. No sign shall be located in any district zoned
R-1, R-2, R-3 or R-4, except as specified in §§
1280.06 ,
1280.07  and
1280.08 (b).
   (b)   Size. Sign area shall include the face of all the display area of the
sign, except the bracing, framing and structural supports of the sign, unless
such support members are made part of the message or face of the sign. Where a
sign has two or more display faces, the area of all faces of the sign shall be
included in determining the area of the sign, unless two display faces are
joined back to back, are parallel to each other and are not more than 24 inches
apart, or form a V-angle of less than 45 degrees. For spherical signs, the size
shall be defined as the area of the bisecting plane. The area of a sign
consisting of individual letters or symbols, either free-standing or attached
to or painted on a surface, building, wall or window, shall be considered to be
that of the smallest rectangle or regular geometrical shape which encompasses
all the letters and symbols.
   (c)   Design.
      (1)   Signs shall not resemble, by design, color, shape or other
characteristic, any common traffic-control device, or directional or warning
sign, directed or maintained by the state, by the village or by any railroad,
public utility or similar agency concerned with the protection of the public
health or safety.
      (2)   No sign shall display a representation of a logo or commercial
product (e.g., a soft drink bottle, hamburger, hat) in excess of 20% of the
permitted sign area.
      (3)   No sign shall have more than three colors.
      (4)   Any multifaced sign shall consistently display the name and message
on all used faces.
      (5)   Reverse sides of signs shall be unobtrusive and shall blend with
the surroundings.
   (d)   Lighting.
      (1)   If illuminated, signs shall be illuminated only by the following
means:
         A.   By a white steady, stationary light of reasonable intensity,
directed solely at the sign and shielded from, or otherwise prevented from
beaming directly onto, adjacent properties or streets; and
         B.   By a white interior light of reasonable intensity with logos and/
or letters lit or silhouetted on an opaque background. No additional background
lighting shall be permitted.
      (2)   The level of illumination emitted or reflected from a sign shall
not be of an intensity sufficient to constitute a demonstrable safety hazard to
air traffic or to vehicular traffic on any street from which the sign may be
viewed.
   (e)   Construction, Maintenance and Operation. All signs shall be properly
constructed and maintained to ensure that no hazard is created and shall be
able to withstand a wind pressure of 30 pounds per square foot. All electrical
wiring, fittings and materials used in the construction and operation of
electrically illuminated signs shall conform to the construction specifications
of the village. All signs and related surroundings shall be properly maintained
and shall not be allowed to fall into a state of obvious disrepair or neglect.
   (f)   Prohibited Signs and Devices. Banners, pennants, streamers, spinners,
bench signs, portable signs, mobile placards, marquee-type signs with
changeable messages, flashing or blinking signs, animated signs, signs with
moving or moveable parts, or similar signs or devices, shall be prohibited.
Signs on vending machines, trash bins or other devices serving any premises
shall be screened from view from any public right-of-way. All free-standing and
off-premises signs are prohibited.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1280.05 PERMANENT SIGNS.
   All permanent signs shall comply with the following requirements and with
the height, area and setback regulations of §
1280.06:
   (a)   Wall Signs. Wall signs are permitted for any business or use not
identified by a ground sign.
      (1)   Placement.
         A.   Wall signs shall not protrude more than ten inches from a
building wall or face.
         B.   A wall sign may not extend above the window sill of the second
story. If wall signs, either box or separated letters, are placed in a space
between windows, the height of such signs may not exceed two-thirds of the
distance between the top of the window and the sill of the window above or the
major architectural details related thereto. If individual letters or box
graphics are placed between window spandrels, the height of the letters or box
graphics may not exceed two-thirds of the height of the spandrel.
         C.   Signs may be attached to a building wall or extension which faces
a street, parking lot or service drive, or may be attached to a canopy, marquee
or roof which projects beyond the building, provided that no part of the sign
may extend above the roof, canopy or marquee.
      (2)   Vacancies. Should a tenant space become vacant, the owner/landlord
will replace the sign face where applicable with a blank sign face that is
complementary to the surrounding facade color.
      (3)   Size. The maximum allowable size for any wall sign shall be one
square foot of sign area for each linear foot of width of the building face to
which the sign is attached, but no wall sign shall exceed the maximum size
allowed for the use by § 1280.06.
      (4)   Number. Wall signs shall be limited in number to one per building
or use. For buildings or uses on corner lots having at least 100 feet of
frontage on two public rights-of-way, a second sign is permitted facing the
right-of-way.
   (b)   Ground Signs. Ground signs shall include pole signs and other types of
free-standing signs supported by uprights or braces on the ground, except in
the CCC and CB Districts, where a ground sign is permitted only when all of the
following conditions are fulfilled:
      (1)   The sign is located on the property to which it refers;
      (2)   The use is free-standing on its individual lot, is accessible by
automobile and has off-street parking; and
      (3)   The use has no wall sign visible from a public right-of-way.
         A.   Location. All ground signs shall be set back a minimum of eight
feet from any public right-of-way or property boundary line.
         B.   Size. The maximum area and height for any ground sign shall be
determined by the table in §
1280.06 . The maximum height shall be measured from the established grade line
to the highest point of the sign or its frame or support. As used in this
division (b)(3)B., “established grade line” means the average finished grade
for that area of the site where a sign is to be located; provided, however,
that the height of a sign shall not be artificially increased by the use of
mounding.
         C.   Number. No more than one ground sign shall be permitted on any
one lot or on multiple lots if such lots are devoted to one specific use or
user, except that two ground signs are permitted for buildings or uses having
at least 100 feet of frontage on each of two public rights-of-way, as long as
the combined area and height of both ground signs does not exceed one and one-
third times the area and height of the ground sign with the maximum allowable
area and height dimensions. Neither ground sign shall, by itself, exceed the
maximum allowable area and height dimensions.
         D.   Shape. No ground sign shall be in the shape of a logo or
commercial product.
   (c)   Window Signs. Window signs shall include signs, posters, symbols and
any other identification of or information about the occupant, the activity
and/or the use of the premises. Window signs are permitted for uses specified
in §
1280.06 , in addition to any permitted wall or ground signs, provided that the
sum of the area of the window sign and the area of the wall or ground sign for
that building face does not exceed the maximum allowable area as determined by
the use and the type (i.e., wall or ground) of the primary sign.
      (1)   Placement. Window signs shall be limited to ground floor or first
floor windows only, unless a use is located on the second floor or on a higher
story of a building and has no first floor occupancy.
      (2)   Number and Size. Window signs shall be limited to one sign per
window and shall have a total area not to exceed 10% of the total first floor
window area of the establishment or ten square feet, whichever is less.
   (d)   Roof Signs. As used in this division (d), a “roof sign” means any sign
erected upon the roof of a building or having some part of such sign extending
above the roof line of the building. “Roof line” means the uppermost line of
the roof of the building or, in the case of any extended building facade, the
uppermost height of the facade. Roof signs are hereby prohibited in all
districts.
   (e)   Projecting Signs. As used in this division (e), a “projecting sign”
means any sign attached to a building in such a way that the sign face is not
parallel to the building face. Projecting signs are prohibited, except in CCC
and CB Districts as follows.
      (1)   Projecting signs shall be limited in number to one per business or
use for each public right- of-way that the business or use faces.
      (2)   Projecting signs shall not exceed six square feet in area, project
more than three feet from the building face or hang lower than eight feet above
the level of the pedestrian walkway.
   (f)   Compliance with Area, Height and Setback Requirements; Mounting. All
signs, including all wall signs, ground signs, window signs and roof-mounted
signs, shall comply with the provisions of §
1280.06 and shall be mounted only on the property to which they refer.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989; Ord. 21-2019, passed 11-11-2019)
§ 1280.06 TABLE OF AREA, HEIGHT AND SETBACK REQUIREMENTS.
 Wall Signs                  Ground Signs           Window Signs
 Max. Area (sq.  Max. Height Max. Area  Max. Height Min.     Max. Area (sq.
 ft.)         (ft.)       (sq. ft.)  (ft.)       Setback  ft.)   
                                                    (ft.)
                 Wall Signs              Ground Signs  Window Signs
                                 Max.    Max.  Max.    Min.
                 Max. Area (sq.  Height  Area  Height  Setback  Max. Area (sq.
                 ft.)         (ft.)   (sq.  (ft.)   (ft.)    ft.)   
                                         ft.)
Child care, rest 8               8       Not permitted N/A      Not permitted
home
General commerce
(retail,
restaurant,
lodging,
consumer
service,         80              15      50    15      8        10
entertainment,
wholesaling,
transportation,
manufacturing,
research)
Hospital         35              15      30    15      8        Not permitted
Multi-family     20              8       20    6       8        Not permitted
project ID
Office
(administrative, 25              15      20    15      8        10
professional,
other)
Personal service 35              15      25    15      8        10
Rental/sales
office within    8               8       8     6       8        Not permitted
Residential
District
School, church   20              8       15    6       8        Not permitted
library
 
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1280.07 TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   Temporary signs shall include signs indicating or promoting the development
of land, facilities or structures. Temporary signs must comply with the
provisions of §
1280.04, except that such signs shall not be illuminated. Temporary signs shall
be limited to 32 square feet in area and eight feet in height and be a minimum
of eight feet from a public right-of-way. Application for the erection of a
temporary sign shall be made to the Planning and Zoning Commission. Approval
shall be for a period not to exceed one year and may be renewed upon
application.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1280.08 SPECIAL CONDITIONS.
   In addition to the requirements and regulations previously set forth in this
chapter, the following special conditions shall apply.
   (a)   Joint Identification Signs. Joint identification signs identifying the
project name of a shopping center or other building complex shall be permitted
for three or more combined permitted uses of the same lot. A joint
identification sign shall be limited to one ground sign, shall not exceed the
maximum allowable height for the uses involved (see §
1280.06 ) and shall be allowed in addition to the permitted signs of individual
occupants. The area of the sign shall not exceed 25% of the total allowable
ground sign area for the combined uses and in no case shall the total area of a
joint identification sign exceed eight square feet. A second joint
identification sign of the same size is permitted if the site fronts on two
streets, provided that the frontage on each street is more than 600 feet. For
all buildings or complexes designed and/or intended for multi-tenant usage, a
total sign plan which must conform to all requirements of this section must be
submitted to the Planning and Zoning Commission before any sign permit for the
complex or an individual tenant will be issued.
   (b)   Residential Subdivision Entrance Signs. As used in this division (b),
“residential subdivision entrance sign” means a sign or feature marking a major
entrance or entrances to a residential subdivision. Such identification shall
be limited to wall-mounted signs only, with placement on a brick wall, railroad
ties, entrance columns or similar architectural or landscaping features. Pole-
type ground signs shall be prohibited. Such identification features may be
located on the public right-of-way, provided that the location is within that
portion of the right-of-way between the outermost edge of an existing or
proposed right-of-way on the same side of the right-of-way centerline and is
approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission. Under no circumstances shall
such features be located in the tree lawn or create a visibility hazard for the
safe movement of traffic.
   (c)   Nonconforming Signs. All existing signs that do not conform to the
standards of this section must be brought into conformity:
      (1)   Upon any change of use of the property for which such property was
intended at the time this chapter became effective; or
      (2)   Upon alterations to the existing sign, in which case the following
regulations shall apply:
         A.   Structural. No display sign shall hereafter be altered, enlarged,
extended or relocated, except in conformity with the provisions of this
section. The repainting or repairing of signs shall not be deemed to be an
alteration within the meaning of this section.
         B.   Existing Signs; Continuance. Except as otherwise specifically
provided, nothing in this section shall require the removal or discontinuance
of a legally existing permanent display sign which is attached to the realty,
as distinguished from a temporary or portable sign, that is not altered,
rebuilt, enlarged, extended or relocated, and the same shall be deemed a
nonconforming use under the terms of this section.
   (d)   Conditional Uses. A conditional use shall be subject to the same
signage requirements as if such use were a permitted use.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1280.09 PERMITS; FEES; REINSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (a)   Permits. Prior to the erection of any sign, except as otherwise noted,
a permit shall be obtained from the village. In applying for such permit, a
scale drawing or drawings of the proposed sign and a plot plan showing its
proposed location and the location of adjacent buildings shall be submitted to
the village.
   (b)   Fees. The following fee schedule shall apply:
Type of Sign Original Permit Fee Reinspection Fee
Type of Sign                 Original Permit Fee Reinspection Fee
Ground
- Nonilluminated             $10.00              $5.00
- Illuminated: single face   15.00               7.50
- Illuminated: multiple face 25.00               12.50
Projecting                   10.00               5.00
Wall                         15.00               5.00
No fee is required for temporary signs or signs exempted in §
1280.03
 
   (c)   Reinspection and Maintenance; Noncompliance.
      (1)   All signs for which a permit shall be issued, in accordance with
this section, shall be subject to the following provisions.
         A.   The Village Engineer or his or her designee shall reinspect each
sign, once every 24 months following the erection of such sign, to determine
its compliance with applicable building regulations of the village and to
ensure proper operating conditions and maintenance.
         B.   Whenever the inspecting official, when making a reinspection,
finds a sign in need of repair, support, replacement, cleaning, repainting or
any maintenance service necessary to maintain a reasonable and proper
appearance and the public safety, he or she shall issue an order to the owner
of such sign allowing 30 days to affect needed repairs or maintenance.
      (2)   Failure of an owner to comply with the provisions of this section
shall be cause for the inspecting official to void the permit issued for the
sign and issue an order for the sign to be removed within 15 days.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1280.10 ABANDONED SIGNS.
   (a)   A sign shall be considered abandoned:
      (1)   When it is associated with an abandoned use;
      (2)   When it remains after the termination of a business. A business is
considered to have ceased operations if it is closed to the public for at least
90 consecutive days. Seasonal businesses are exempt from this determination;
      (3)   When, on its immediate premises, it is not adequately maintained
and the repairs or maintenance ordered under §
1280.09(c) are not effected within the specified time; and
      (4)   When it does not conform to the provisions of this section or is
not brought into conformity with §
1280.08(d).
   (b)   Abandonment shall be determined by the Mayor after a public hearing.
Upon determination that the sign is abandoned, the right to maintain and use
such sign shall terminate immediately and the Mayor or his or her designee
shall issue an order for the sign to be removed within 30 days. Any abandoned
sign still standing after 30 days following an order for removal may be removed
by the village and the cost of the removal billed to the owner of the property.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
CHAPTER 1282: OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
Section
1282.01   Definitions.
1282.02   Interpretation; calculation of parking spaces.
1282.03   Compliance; application; change of use; revision of existing site
plan.
1282.04   Joint parking areas.
1282.05   Wheel stops.
1282.06   Surfacing and maintenance.
1282.07   Lighting, striping and traffic control.
1282.08   Parking in residential districts.
1282.09   Access and maneuvering areas; drive-in stacking areas.
1282.10   Landscaping requirements.
1282.11   Driveways and access drives.
1282.12   Minimum loading space requirements.
1282.13   Minimum parking space requirements.
Cross-reference:
   Adult entertainment businesses, see
Ch. 1284
   General development standards, see
Ch. 1272
   Landscaping, see
Ch. 1278
   Parking generally, see
Ch. 452
   Signs, see
Ch. 1280
   Special districts, see
Ch. 1276
   Special permits, see
Ch. 1274
Statutory reference:
   Municipal zoning in general, see R.C. §§ 713.06 et seq.
§ 1282.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter:
   (a)   “Aisle.” That portion of the off-street parking and loading area that
provides access to parking, stacking or loading spaces, exclusive of driveways
and parking and loading spaces. The minimum aisle width to serve a loading
space shall be 15 feet. The minimum aisle width to serve a parking space shall
be as follows:
 
Angle of Parking (Degrees) Minimum Aisle Width (Feet)
                           One-Way Travel Two-Way Travel
Parallel                   13             20
Up to 50                   13
50 up to 80                17
80 or more                                22
 
   (b)   “Employees.” For determining parking requirements, the maximum number
of employees on duty on the premises at one time or on any two successive
shifts, whichever is greater.
   (c)   “Gross floor area.” Includes:
      (1)   For determining parking requirements, the total floor area of all
main accessory buildings, whether closed or unenclosed, measured from the
exterior building face, including storage areas, but excluding interior areas
used for parking and loading and access thereto; and
      (2)   For determining loading requirements, the total floor area of all
main and accessory buildings, whether closed or unenclosed, measured from the
exterior building face, including storage areas, but excluding interior areas
used for parking and loading and access thereto.
   (d)   “Hospital bassinets.” For determining parking requirements, shall not
be counted as beds.
   (e)   “Off-street loading space.” A cubical area for the parking of one
commercial vehicle for pick-ups and deliveries, which space has minimum
dimensions of 12 feet in width, 50 feet in length and 15 feet in vertical
height, which is located in a building or in the open on the same lot as the
use such space is intended to serve, which has access to a public street and
which is exclusive of the right-of-way of any public or private street or any
driveway, aisle, circulation drive or off-street parking space.
   (f)   Off-street parking space.” A rectangular area for the parking of one
motor vehicle, which area is located in a building or in the open, has access
to a public street and is exclusive of the right-of-way of any public or
private street or any driveway, aisle, circulation drive or off-street loading
space. Off-street parking spaces shall have minimum rectangular dimensions as
follows:
 
                     Parking Angle (Dimensions in Feet)
Parking Space Parallel 45 Degrees 60 Degrees 90 Degrees
Length        23       20         19         19
Width         10       10         9          9
 
   (g)   “Parking setback line.” A line specifically established by ordinance
of Council or by a zoning district, overlay or subdivision plat, which
determines the minimum distance that parking, loading or maneuvering may be
located from a street right-of-way line.
   (h)   “Seats.” The number of seating units installed or indicated on plans
or each 30 linear inches of stands, benches or pews. It is assumed that a
seating unit occupies seven square feet of floor area for fixed seating and 15
square feet of floor area for uses without fixed seating, exclusive of aisles
and assembly areas.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1282.02 INTERPRETATION; CALCULATION OF PARKING SPACES.
   (a)   Parking and loading spaces for uses not specifically provided for in
this chapter shall be determined by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (b)   Each separate use shall meet its own specific requirements, as set
forth in this chapter or as determined by the Commission if not set forth in
this chapter. For mixed uses, the total sum of parking and loading spaces shall
be the sum of all the requirements for each separate permitted, accessory or
conditional use.
   (c)   Fractional numbers shall be increased to the next whole number.
   (d)   Parking spaces shall be designated for the physically handicapped and
may be used to compute the total number of spaces required. The number and
location of designated spaces shall be in compliance with the requirements of
the Ohio Basic Building Code, as follows:
 
Total Number of Spaces in the Lot or Required Number of Handicapped Accessible
Structure                            Spaces
Up to 100                            1 per 25 parking spaces
101 to 200                           4, plus 1 space per 5 parking spaces over
                                     100
201 to 500                           6, plus 1 space per 75 parking spaces over
                                     200
Over 500                             10, plus 1 space per 10 parking spaces
                                     over 500
 
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1282.03 COMPLIANCE; APPLICATION; CHANGE OF USE; REVISION OF EXISTING SITE
PLAN.
   (a)   No building, structure or land shall be used or occupied, and no
building, structure or part thereof shall be erected or constructed, unless
permanently maintained off-street parking and loading spaces are provided as
required by and in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (b)   No building, structure or part thereof shall be substantially
reconstructed, altered or repaired unless permanently maintained off-street
parking and loading spaces are provided as required by and in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter.
   (c)   The required space provisions of this chapter, except when there is a
change of use, shall not apply to any existing building or structure. When the
new use, as changed, involves no additions or enlargements, there shall be
provided as many of such spaces as may be required for the new use.
   (d)   Whenever the use of a building or structure is changed or is increased
in floor area, number of employees, seating capacity or otherwise so as to
create a need for an increase in the number of existing parking spaces,
additional parking spaces shall be provided on the basis of such change or
increase.
   (e)   Any revision of an approved parking lot, including, but not limited
to, the reduction, enlargement, restriping or remarking of any parking lot in a
manner that differs from the existing site plan, shall require a new site plan
and a permit approving such change.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1282.04 JOINT PARKING AREAS.
   (a)   All off-street parking and loading spaces shall be located on the same
lot as the use to be served, except that the owners of two or more separate
uses may establish a joint parking area to provide the total number of required
off-street parking and loading spaces for all such combined uses, subject to
the approval of Council and to such conditions as may be imposed by Council.
   (b)   Churches may establish joint parking areas for 50% or less of their
required spaces if such areas are located within 300 feet of the main church
entrance.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1282.05 WHEEL STOPS.
   (a)   Whenever a parking area extends to a lot line, sidewalk, planter strip
or building, a wheel stop device consisting of blocks, a permanent curb, an
expanded sidewalk or another suitable restraint shall be installed to prevent
any part of a parked motor vehicle from extending beyond the property line,
overhanging a pedestrian walkway or sidewalk or damaging any building,
structure or landscaping.
   (b)   The minimum height of a wheel stop device shall be five inches and the
minimum distance from a wheel stop device to a property line or protected area
shall be two and one-half feet.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1282.06 SURFACING AND MAINTENANCE.
   (a)   All off-street parking and loading areas, including spaces, driveways,
aisles and circulation drives, shall be hard-surfaced with asphalt, concrete or
a combination thereof, meeting the requirements of the State of Ohio Department
of Transportation Construction and Material Specifications, the latest edition.
   (b)   All off-street parking and loading areas, including spaces, driveways,
aisles and circulation drives, shall be graded and maintained so that water
does not unreasonably accumulate on such areas, nor flow or drain onto adjacent
public or private property. All such surfaced areas shall be maintained free of
chuck holes, litter, glass, nails or other dangerous materials.
   (c)   Stormwater retention requirements shall be as set forth in §
1218.11.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1282.07 LIGHTING, STRIPING AND TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   (a)   Any nonresidential parking area with ten or more off-street parking
spaces, and any residential parking area with 20 or more off-street parking
spaces, shall be illuminated during times of poor visibility to provide an
average intensity of one-half footcandles of light as measured at the parking
surface area. All outdoor lighting shall be of constant intensity and shall be
directed, reflected or shielded so as not to be of excessive brightness or
cause glare hazardous to pedestrians or drivers, or create a nuisance or
unreasonably interfere with a neighboring property owner’s right to enjoy his
or her property.
   (b)   Any parking area with ten or more off-street parking spaces shall be
striped and maintained in good condition so as to be clearly visible with lines
four inches wide to indicate parking space limits.
   (c)   Any off-street parking area shall be marked or posted with traffic-
control devices, as may be determined necessary by the Police Chief, for the
protection of operators and pedestrians, including directional arrows, one-way
signs, no parking signs and fire lane signs.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1282.08 PARKING IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   The provision of parking space, either open or enclosed, for the parking or
storage of motor vehicles in a residential zoning district or planned
residential zoning district shall be subject to the following.
   (a)   Commercial vehicles. No commercial vehicle or other vehicle which
infringes on the residential character of a residential district shall be
stored or parked on a residentially zoned lot. However, infrequent short-term
parking of a commercial or commercial-type vehicle, for conveying tools and
materials to premises where labor using such tools and materials is being
performed, for delivering goods to a residence or for moving furniture to or
from a residence, during the time such parking is actually necessary, is hereby
permitted. For purposes of this division (a), "commercial vehicle" means any
vehicle used or designed to be used for business or commercial purposes, which
vehicle infringes on the residential character of a residential district,
including, but not limited to, a bus, cement truck, commercial tree trimming
truck, semitractor, semitrailer, stage bed truck, step van, tank truck, tar
truck or other commercial-type vehicle licensed by the Ohio Bureau of Motor
Vehicles as a commercial vehicle or truck.
   (b)   Recreational and other large vehicles. The off-street parking of a
recreational vehicle, boat, boat trailer, camper, coach, motor home, tent
trailer, travel trailer, or utility trailer is permitted subject to the
following conditions.
      (1)   None of the above-mentioned vehicles shall be parked in the
required front or side yard, except they may be parked in a driveway for not
longer than 72 hours and three days between for loading or unloading.
      (2)   If the camping and recreational equipment is parked or stored
outside of a garage, it shall be parked or stored ten feet to the rear of the
front line of the dwelling. The setback requirement in the side or rear yard
shall be a minimum of three feet.
      (3)   All such parking shall be as close to the structure as practical,
but not closer than two feet nor farther than 20 feet.
      (4)   No such camping or recreational vehicle shall have fixed connection
to electricity, gas, water or sewer facilities, nor shall such be used as a
dwelling in any case.
   (c)   Inoperable vehicles.
      (1)   All recreational equipment must be kept in good repair and carry
the current year's license and/or registration.
      (2)   Such motor vehicles may be parked or stored for an indefinite
period if stored entirely within an enclosed building.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989; Ord. 6-2002, passed 10-14-2002; Ord. 20-2019,
passed 11-11-2019)
§ 1282.09 ACCESS AND MANEUVERING AREAS; DRIVE-IN STACKING AREAS.
   (a)   Access and Maneuvering Areas. Every parking and loading space shall
have sufficient access and maneuvering area. All maneuvering areas shall be on
the same lot as the use that such area is intended to serve. In single-family
or two-family residential districts, the maneuvering area may include a
driveway, street or parking space.
   (b)   Drive-in Stacking Areas. Drive-in facilities, in order to obtain
approval as a conditional use, shall be provided with stacking areas, as may be
required by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1282.10 LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS.
   Landscaping shall be provided as set forth in §
1278.04(c).
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1282.11 DRIVEWAYS AND ACCESS DRIVES.
   (a)   As used in this section, “driveway” means any access corridor leading
from a public right-of- way to a parking lot, aisle, parking circulation area,
garage, off-street parking space or loading space. Each driveway shall be
located and designed in a manner that provides for the safety of motorists and
pedestrians.
   (b)   A driveway serving a parking lot shall be located and designed so that
vehicles entering or leaving the parking lot will be traveling in a forward
motion.
   (c)   An access drive, exclusive of curb returns, shall be ten feet or more
from the side lot line and 20 feet or more from another access drive, except
that an access drive for residential use may be within three feet of a side lot
line, or adjacent to the side lot line if a common drive is provided for two
adjoining lots.
   (d)   A driveway serving a residential parking area containing one to eight
parking spaces shall have a minimum width of ten feet.
   (e)   All other driveways shall have a minimum width of 20 feet and a
maximum width of 25 feet, except curb returns.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1282.12 MINIMUM LOADING SPACE REQUIREMENTS.
   The minimum number of off-street loading spaces shall be as set forth in the
following table.
   (a)   Each use of a business, institutional, personal or professional
service nature, including, but not limited to, a business office, hotel, motel,
recreational or entertainment-type use, shall provide loading spaces based on
gross floor area as follows:
 
Gross Floor Area (sq. ft.) Minimum Number of Loading Spaces Required
Under 10,000               0
10,000 to 100,000          1
100,001 to 350,000         2
350,001 or more            2, plus 1 for each additional 100,000 sq. ft. or
                           fraction thereof exceeding 350,000 sq. ft.
 
   (b)   Each commercial or industrial-type use involving the retail or
wholesale exchange, sale, storage, processing or manufacturing of merchandise
or personal property of any type, which is permitted in any commercial or
manufacturing district, shall provide loading spaces based on gross floor area
as follows:
Gross Floor Area (sq. ft.) Minimum Number of Loading Spaces Required
Gross Floor Area (sq. ft.) Minimum Number of Loading Spaces Required
Under 5,000                0
5,001 to 10,000            1
10,001 to 30,000           2
30,001 to 90,000           3
90,001 to 150,000          4
150,001 to 250,000         5
250,001 or more            5, plus 1 for each 80,000 sq. ft. or fraction
                           thereof exceeding 250,000 sq. ft.
 
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
§ 1282.13 MINIMUM PARKING SPACE REQUIREMENTS.
   The minimum number of off-street parking spaces required shall be as set
forth in the following table:
Type of Use Minimum Number of Parking Spaces Required
Type of Use                             Minimum Number of Parking Spaces
                                        Required
Residential
All other dwelling units                2.5 per dwelling unit
Housing for elderly                     1 per dwelling unit
One- or two-family dwelling             2 per dwelling unit
Office
Administrative or business              1 per 250 sq. ft. of gross floor area
Medical or dental                       1 per 200 sq. ft. of gross floor area
Institutional
Auditorium, stadium, center or other    1 per 25 sq. ft. of gross floor area
place of assembly
                                        1 for each 30 sq. ft. of gross floor
Church                                  area, of the sanctuary, auditorium or
                                        main place of worship
Day or nursery schools                  1 per teacher/employee, plus 1 per six
                                        students
Elementary schools                      2 per classroom, plus 1 per 60 sq. ft.
                                        of the auditorium or assembly hall area
                                        2 per classroom, plus 1 for every 20
High school, business, technical or     students for which the facility is
trade school, college or university     designed, or 1 per 60 sq. ft. of the
                                        auditorium or assembly hall area,
                                        whichever is greater
Hospital                                2.5 per bed, plus 1 per employee on the
                                        largest shift
                                        1 per 250 sq. ft. of gross floor area,
Library, museum or art gallery          plus 1 per each employee on the largest
                                        shift
Nursing home                            1 per 6 beds, plus 1 per employee on
                                        the largest shift
                                        1 per 75 sq. ft., plus 1 per 30 sq. ft.
Swimming facility                       of spectator area, plus 1 per employee
                                        on the largest shift
Commercial
Automobile service station              2 per automobile service station, plus
                                        requirements for vehicular repair
                                        1 per 250 sq. ft. of gross floor area,
Bank                                    plus 1 per employee on the largest
                                        shift
Beauty or barber shop                   1 per 200 sq. ft.
Commercial or business service uses,
including retail centers less than      1 per 150 sq. ft. of gross floor area,
100,000 sq. ft., except as otherwise    plus 1 per 200 sq. ft. of storage area
specifically provided for herein
Funeral home                            1 per 150 sq. ft. of gross floor area,
                                        plus 1 per business vehicle
Lumber yard, furniture or large         1 per 200 sq. ft. of gross floor area
appliance store
                                        1 per rental unit, plus 1 per employee
                                        on the largest shift, plus 1 per 150
Motel or hotel                          sq. ft. of conference or meeting area,
                                        plus required spaces for the restaurant
                                        and lounge
Restaurant, tavern, night club lounge   1 per 50 sq. ft. of gross floor area
or dance hall
Shopping center with a gross floor area  
of:
- 100,000 to 500,000 sq. ft.            5.5 per 1,000 sq. ft. of gross floor
                                        area
- Over 500,000 sq. ft.                  5 per 1,000 sq. ft. of gross floor area
                                        1 per 100 sq. ft. of gross floor area,
Vehicle repair                          or 3 per each service bay, whichever is
                                        greater
                                        1 per 300 sq. ft. of gross floor area,
Vehicle sales                           plus 1 per 1,000 sq. ft. of outdoor
                                        display area
Entertainment
Bowling alley                           5 per lane, plus spaces for restaurants
Golf driving range                      1 per tee, plus 1 per employee on the
                                        largest shift
Miniature golf                          1.5 per hole, plus 1 per employee on
                                        the largest shift
Skating rink (ice or roller)            1 per 300 sq. ft. of gross floor area
Theater, auditorium or assembly hall    1 per 3 patrons, based on the maximum
                                        capacity
Industrial
All laboratories and all manufacturing, 1 per employee on the largest shift,
production, fabrication and printing    plus 1 per business vehicle normally on
operations                              the premises
Warehousing                             1 per business vehicle, plus:
Gross floor area (sq. ft.)               
- Up to 20,000                          1 per 1,000 sq. ft. of gross floor area
- 20,001 to 120,000                     1 per 5,000 sq. ft. of gross floor area
- Over 120,000                          1 per 10,000 sq. ft. of gross floor
                                        area
 
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
CHAPTER 1284: ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS
Section
1284.01   Purposes.
1284.02   Definitions.
1284.03   Location; development standards.
Cross-reference:
   General development standards, see
Ch. 1272
   Landscaping, see
Ch. 1278
   Off-street parking and loading, see
Ch. 1282
   Sex related offenses, see
Ch. 666
   Signs, see
Ch. 1280
   Special districts, see
Ch. 1276
   Special permits, see
Ch. 1274
Statutory reference:
   Municipal zoning in general, see R.C. §§ 713.06 et seq.
§ 1284.01 PURPOSES.
   The establishment of adult entertainment businesses, as defined in §
1284.02(b), tends to result in the blighting and deterioration of the areas in
which such businesses are established. Accordingly, it is necessary that such
businesses be regulated in such a manner as to prevent the erosion of the
character of the affected neighborhood and to prohibit the establishment of
such a business within close proximity to other adult entertainment businesses,
residentially zoned areas, schools, churches, parks and playgrounds. The
regulations for adult entertainment businesses are established in §
1284.03.
(Ord. 7-85, passed 2-11-1985)
§ 1284.02 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter:
   (a)   “Adult book store.” An establishment having as a significant portion
of its stock in trade, for the purpose of retail sale or for the purpose of
display by coin or slug-operated or electronically, electrically or
mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors or other
image- producing devices, or both, books, magazines, other periodicals, films,
tapes and cassettes, which materials have as their major or dominant theme
matter depicting, describing or relating to sexual conduct or specified
anatomical areas, as defined herein.
   (b)   “Adult entertainment business.” An adult bookstore, an adult mini-
motion picture theater, an adult motion picture arcade and an adult motion
picture theater, as defined herein.
   (c)   “Adult mini-motion picture theater.” Any enclosed building with a
capacity of fewer than 50 persons, regularly used for presenting material
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing sexual
conduct or specified anatomical areas.
   (d)   “Adult motion picture arcade.” Any place to which the public is
permitted or invited wherein coin or slug-operated or electronically,
electrically or mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines,
projectors or other image-producing devices are maintained to show images to
five or fewer persons per machine at any one time, and where images so
displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or
describing sexual conduct or specific anatomical areas.
   (e)   “Adult motion picture theater.” An enclosed building with a capacity
of 50 or more persons, regularly used for presenting material distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing sexual contact or
specified anatomical areas.
   (f)   “Sexual conduct.” The fondling or other touching of human genitals,
the pubic region, buttocks or female breasts, masturbation and the physical
acts defined as sexual conduct or sexual contact in
Chapter 666 of the General Offenses Code.
   (g)   “Specified anatomical areas.”Human genitals less than completely and
opaquely covered, the public region, buttocks, female breasts below a point
immediately above the top of the areola and male genitals in a discernibly
turgid state, even if completely and opaquely covered.
(Ord. 7-85, passed 2-11-1985)
§ 1284.03 LOCATION; DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (a)   Location. Notwithstanding any other provision of these codified
ordinances, no person shall cause or permit the establishment of any adult
entertainment business within any zoning district other than a business
district.
   (b)   Development Standards. In addition to the development standards
prescribed in this Zoning Code for business districts, no person shall cause
the establishment of an adult entertainment business within 1,000 feet of
another such business or within 1,000 feet of any church, public or private
pre- school, elementary, middle or secondary school, park, playground or area
zoned for residential use. For the purpose of this division (b), distances
shall be measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures
or objects, from the nearest portion of the real estate upon which an adult
entertainment business is located to the nearest property line of the premises
of a church, public or private pre-school, elementary, middle or secondary
school, park or playground, or to the nearest boundary line of a district
restricted to residential use by ordinances of the village.
   (c)   Establishment. The establishment of an adult entertainment business
shall include the opening of such business as a new business, the relocation of
such business or the conversion of an existing business location to any of the
uses defined as an adult entertainment business.
(Ord. 7-85, passed 2-11-1985)
CHAPTER 1290: CHICKENS, DUCKS, AND RABBITS
Section
1290.01   Chickens, ducks, and rabbits.
§ 1290.01 CHICKENS, DUCKS, AND RABBITS.
   (a)   No person shall own, keep or harbor any chickens, ducks, or rabbits
without meeting the requirements set forth in the following divisions:
      (1)   A one time permit is required and issued by the Village of Minerva
Park prior to acquiring chickens, ducks, or rabbits, and an inspection occur by
the village within 60 days of acquiring chickens, ducks, or rabbits. The
"Minerva Park Chicken/Duck/Rabbit Checklist" as adopted by Council shall be
utilized by reference to this section.
      (2)   The chickens, ducks, and/or rabbits shall be kept in a secure
enclosure shielded from the street to which it fronts and shielded from the
neighbors/adjacent property owners.
      (3)   An appropriate enclosure (such as a chicken coop for chickens)
shall be provided, and be kept clean and in good repair. This enclosure will be
able to provide proper protection for the residing animals in both summer and
winter months.
   (b)   No person in division (a) of this section shall sell eggs produced by
said chickens and/or ducks.
   (c)   No person in division (a) of this section shall own, keep or harbor a
rooster.
   (d)   No person in division (a) of this section shall fail to comply with
all other sections of Chapter 618, Animals, of this Code of Ordinances,
involving the care and responsibility of animals.
   (e)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor for a
first offense; whoever violates this section for a second or subsequent offense
is guilty of a misdemeanor in the fourth degree. In addition, for second or
subsequent violations, the court may order the offender to forfeit the animals.
(Ord. 08-2019, passed 10-14-2019)
APPENDIX A: DRIVEWAY AND INTERSECTION SIGHT TRIANGLES
DRIVEWAY SIGHT TRIANGLE
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5a43892f3b1e204d8e6c0594eaf73b0191967548/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2445.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5a43892f3b1e204d8e6c0594eaf73b0191967548/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2447.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5a43892f3b1e204d8e6c0594eaf73b0191967548/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2449.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5a43892f3b1e204d8e6c0594eaf73b0191967548/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2451.png]
 
APPENDIX B: VEHICLE OVERHANG
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5a43892f3b1e204d8e6c0594eaf73b0191967548/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2453.png]
APPENDIX C: RECOMMENDED TREES FOR THE VILLAGE OF MINERVA PARK
   This Appendix C is designed to encourage an imaginative selection of
landscape trees. Careful selection will prevent an over-dependence on a few
species. This Appendix C will be useful to residents, nurserymen,
horticulturists, landscapers, developers and landscape architects.
   Along an individual street, uniform street tree plantings are desirable.
However, overuse of a few species is inevitable without a conscious effort to
vary plant species and families. Deviations from the recommended list are
permitted with the approval of the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   The list is divided into three size categories: large trees which mature at
a height of 50 feet or more (Group A); medium trees which reach a mature height
of between 30 and 50 feet (Group B); and small trees which range from ten to 30
feet at maturity (Group C). Tree lawn sizes must accommodate the tree size
planted: Group A (greater than seven feet); Group B (four to seven feet); Group
C (three to four feet). Use under utility lines is limited to small trees,
although medium trees may be planted as close as ten lateral feet to utility
lines.
   The approximate mature height and diameter of the crown of each tree are
given.
   Trees are alphabetized by their scientific name with the common name given.
Cultivars best suited to central Ohio are also provided. An asterisked entry
indicates a tree which is unsuitable for planting within 15 lateral feet of a
sidewalk or bike way.
   Habit refers to the three dimensional form of the tree. Six general terms
describe the characteristic shape of the trees:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5a43892f3b1e204d8e6c0594eaf73b0191967548/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2455.png]
   The tolerance category presents information from various sources listed in
the bibliography. The tree’s relative tolerance to insects, diseases, pollution
and soil conditions is signified by either a “Y” meaning yes, it is tolerant;
“N” meaning no, it is not tolerant; or “-” meaning no information is available
from these sources.
   Comments pertain to any other notable characteristic of the tree.
Common Name          Height  Speed        Insect/            Dry  Damp
(scientific name)    (ft.)   (ft.)  Habit Diseases Pollution Soil Soil Comments
‘Cultivar”
Common Name (scientific name) ‘Cultivar”                      Height Speed Habit     Insect/  Pollution Dry  Damp Comments
                                                                  (ft.)  (ft.)           Diseases           Soil Soil
Large Deciduous Trees (50 ft. or greater) - Group A
American Yellowwood (Cladrastis lutea)                            30-50  40-55 obovoid   N        N         Y    -    white flowers; select those with wide branch angles
Autumn Gold Ginkgo (Ginko biloba)                                              conical
‘Autumn Gold’                                                 50-80  30-60 to        Y        Y         Y    Y    a male variety which does not fruit
                                                                               globular
Bald Cypress                                                      50-70  20-30 conical   Y        Y         Y    Y    characteristic knees develop in wet soils
(Taxodium distichum)
Black Alder                                                                    obovoid
(Alnus Glutinosa)                                                 40-60  20-40 to        Y        Y         Y    Y    naturally a multi- stemmed tree; may prune to a single trunk
                                                                               globular
Black Gum                                                         30-50  20-30 conical   Y        -         Y    Y    brilliant fall color
(Nyssa sylvatica)                                                              to ovoid
Green Ash                                                                      irregular
(Fraxinus pennsylvanica) ‘Marshall’s Seedless’ ‘Summit’ 50-60  30-40 to        N        -         Y    Y    overplanted in Dublin
                                                                               globular
                                                                               conical
Hardy Rubber Tree (Eucommia ulmoides)                             40-60  40-70 to        Y        Y         Y    Y    dark green canopy
                                                                               globular
Katsura Tree                                                      40-60  30-50 obovoid   Y        Y         N    Y    single or multi- stemmed; fall color an interesting apricot
(Cercidiphyllum japonicum)
Kentucky Coffee Tree (Gymnocladus dioicus)                        60-75  40-50 irregular Y        Y         Y    N    fruit may be objectionable; course texture
                                                                               to ovoid
Lacebark Elm                                                      40-50  30-40 obovoid   Y        Y         Y    Y    exquisite mottled bark; resistant to Dutch elm disease
(Ulmus parvifolia)
Larch                                                             70-75  20-30 conical   N        N         N    Y    deciduous conifer
(Larix decidua)
Norway Maple
(Acer plantanoldes)
‘Cleveland’                                                   40-50  40-50 globular  N        Y         Y    Y    dense shade and shallow roots inhibit turf
‘Emerald Queen’
‘Summer Shade’
Red Maple
(Acer rubrum)                                                                  ovoid to
‘Autura Flame’                                                40-60  40-50 globular  Y        N         N    Y    suffers in urban environment; outstanding fall color
‘October Glory’
‘Red Sunset’
Red Oak                                                           60-75  40-50 ovoid to  Y        Y         Y    Y    russet-red fall color
(Quercos rubra)                                                                globular
Redmond Linden
(Tilia americana)                                                 40-50  25-30 ovoid     N        Y         Y    Y    Japanese beatles may attack foliage
‘Redmond’
Sassafrass                                                                     conical
(Sassafras albidum)                                               30-60  25-40 to        Y        Y         Y    Y    outstanding fall color
                                                                               irregular
Scarlet Oak                                                       70-75  40-50 globular  N        N         Y    N    red fall color
(Quercus coccinea)
Shingle Oak                                                       50-60  50-70 conical   Y        Y         Y    Y    leaves retained into winter
(Quercus imbricaria)
Shumard Oak                                                       70-75  40-50 ovoid to  Y        Y         Y    Y    a replacement for pin oak
(Quercus shumardii)                                                            globular
Silver Linden                                                     50-70  30-40 ovoid     N        Y         Y    Y    Japanese beatles may attack foliage
(Tilia tomentosa)
Sugar Hackberry                                                   60-80  50-60 globular  Y        Y         Y    Y    smooth bark
(Celtis laevigata)
Sugar Maple
(Acer sacchanim)                                                  60-75  50-60 ovoid to  Y        N         N    N    attractive fall color
‘Green Mountain’                                                           globular
‘Legacy’
Swamp White Oak (Quercus bicolor)                                 50-60  50-70 ovoid     Y        Y         Y    Y    attractive scaly bark
Sweetgum                                                                       conical
(liquidambar styraciflua)                                         60-75  40-50 to        Y        N         N    Y    messy star-shaped fruit
‘Moraine’                                                                  globular
Turkish Filbert                                                   40-50  30-40 ovoid to  Y        Y         Y    Y    produces nuts in a stickyhusk that are a delicacy to squirrels
(Corylus colurna)                                                              conical
Urban Elm
(Ulmus)                                                           50-70  25-40 obovoid   Y        Y         Y    Y    resistant to Dutch elm disease
‘Urban Elm’
White Ash                                                                      irregular
(Fraxinus americana) ‘Autumn Applause’ ‘Autumn Purple’    50-80  40-70 to        N        -         N    Y    beautiful fall color
                                                                              globular
Medium Deciduous Trees (30 - 50 ft.) Group B
American Hophornbeam                                              25-40  20-35 conical   Y        -         Y    Y    transplant in spring
(Ostrya virginiana)
Amur Cork Tree                                                    30-45  30-50 obovoid   Y        Y         Y    Y    broad-spreading
(Phellodendron amurense)
Callary Pear
(Pyrus calleryana)                                                30-50  20-35 conical   Y        Y         Y    Y    commonly planted ‘Bradford’ exhibits poor branch structure leading to
‘Aristocrat’ ‘Chanticleer’                                             to ovoid                               splitting
‘Red Spire’
Goldenraintree                                                    30-40  30-50 globular  Y        Y         Y    Y    course texture
(Koelreuteria paniculata)
Hedge Maple                                                       25-35  20-35 globular  Y        Y         Y    Y    dense canopy
(Acer campestre)
Sargent Cherry
(Prunus sargentii)                                                40-50  30-45 globular  Y        -         -    -    stately bark; lovely early pink blossoms
‘Columnaris’
Sawtooth Oak                                                      35-45  35-45 ovoid to  N        -         Y    N    chestnut-like leaf shape
(Quercus acutissima)                                                           globular
Thornless Honeylocust                                                          irregulat
(Gleditsia triacanthos)                                           35-50  20-35 to        N        Y         Y    Y    overplanted; use moderately; delicate form
var. inermis                                                                   globular
‘Imperial’ ‘Moraine’ ‘Shade Master’ ‘Skyline’
Small Deciduous Trees (10 - 30 ft.) - Group C
‘Baskatong’                                                   30     -     -         Y        Y         -    -    purple-red flowers; dark purple- red fruit
‘Centurion’                                                   20-25  -     columnar  Y        Y         -    -    rose-red flowers; cherry-red fruit
‘Donald Wyman’                                                20-25  -     columnar  Y        Y         -    -    white flowers; red fruit
‘Harvest Gold’                                                20     15    obovoid   Y        Y         -    -    white flowers; gold fruit
‘Henningi’                                                    25     -     obovoid   Y        Y         -    -    white flowers; orange-red fruit
‘Prairiefire’                                                 -      -     -         Y        Y         -    -    redflowers; maroon fruit
‘Ralph Shay’                                                  -      -     -         Y        Y         -    -    retains red fruit
‘Sentinel’                                                    -      -     columnar  Y        Y         -    -    pale pink flowers; red fruit
‘Snow Drift’                                                  15-25  -     globular  Y        Y         -    -    profuse white flowers; orange-red fruit; fire-blight in nearby states
‘Spring Snow’                                                 20-25  -     obovoid   Y        -         -    -    white flowers; fruitless
‘Sugar Tyme’                                                  18     15    obovoid   Y        -         -    -    white flowers; red fruit
‘White Angel’                                                 20-25  -     obovoid   Y        -         -    -    white flowers; red fruit
‘Winter Gold’                                                 30     -     -         Y        -         -    -    white flowers; yellow fruit
Amur Maple                                                                     obovoid
(Acer ginnala)                                                    15-20  43027 to        Y        Y         Y    Y    grown multi- stemmed or as a single truck
                                                                               globular
Blackhaw Viburnum                                                 43083  42958 globular  Y        Y         Y    Y    blue-black fruit; prune to a tree form
(Viburnum prunifolium)
Crabapple
(Malus)                                                           20-25  -     globular  Y        Y         -    -    reddish pink flowers; red fruit
‘Adams’
Crabapple
(malus)                                                           25     -     obovoid   Y        Y         -    -    deep pink flowers; dark red fruit
‘Robinson’
Dotted Hawthorn
(Crataequs punctata)                                              25-30  25-35 globular  N        Y         Y    Y    few thorns; attractive bark; large 1-inch fruit
‘Ohio Pioneer’
Fringe Tree (Chionanthus virginicus)                              43027  43027 obovoid   Y        Y         Y    Y    fragrant, white flowers; lovely tree when single-stemmed
Japanese Tree Lilac
(Syringa reticulata)                                              20-30  15-25 obovoid   Y        Y         Y    Y    flowers in June
‘Ivory Silk’
Lavalle Hawthorn                                                  15-30  43032 globular  N        Y         Y    Y    nearly thornless, showy red fruit
(Crataeque x lavallei)
Paperbark Maple                                                   20-30  43037 globular  Y        -         N    Y    unequaled bronze, exfoliating bark
(Acer griseum)                                                                 to ovoid
Serviceberry                                                      15-25  42925 obovoid   Y        N         Y    Y    early white flowers; delicate form; single or multi-stemmed
(Amelachier arborea)
Thornless Cockspur Hawthorn
(Crataequs crusgalli)                                             20-30  20-35 globular  N        Y         Y    Y    most cockspurs are dangerous; however, this one lacks thorns
var. inermis ‘Crusader’
Trident Maple                                                     20-30  20-25 globular  Y        Y         Y    N    dark green leaf
(Acer buergerianum)
Washington Hawthorn                                               25-30  20-25 globular  N        Y         Y    Y    thorns; red fruit persists into winter
(Crataeque phaenopyrum)
Winter King Hawthorn
(Crataequs viridis)                                               20-35  15-30 globular  N        Y         Y    Y    few thorns; fruit persists into winter; attractive bark
‘Winter King’
 
Unacceptable Trees for Street Tree Use
Common Name Scientific Name
Common Name            Scientific Name
Apple                  Malus pumila
Black Locust           Robinia pseudoacacia
Box Elder              Acer negundo
Bradford Pear          Pvrus callervana ‘Bradford’
Buckeye, Horsechestnut Aesculus species
European Mountain Ash  Sorbus aucuparia
European White Birch   Betula pendula
Ginko (female)         Ginko biloba
Moline American Elm    Ulmus americana ‘Moline’
Mulberry               Morus species
Northern Catalpa       Catalpa speciosa
Osage-Orange           Maclura pomifera
Paper Birch            Betula papvrifera
Poplar                 Populus species
Siberian Elm           Ulmus pumila
Silver Maple           Acer saccharinum
Tree of Heaven         Ailanthus altissima
Upright English Oak    Quercus robur ‘fastigiata’
Willow                 Salix species
 
(Ord. 5-89, passed 5-8-1989)
PART FOURTEEN: BUILDING AND HOUSING CODE
   TITLE TWO – BUILDING STANDARDS
      
CHAP. 1420.   OHIO BASIC BUILDING CODE
      
CHAP. 1422.   OBOA ONE-, TWO- AND THREE-FAMILY DWELLING CODE
   TITLE FOUR – BUILDING ADMINISTRATION
      
CHAP. 1440.   ADMINISTRATION GENERALLY
      
CHAP. 1442.   PERMITS AND FEES
      
CHAP. 1444.   PLUMBING INSPECTOR
      
CHAP. 1446.   RESIDENTIAL BUILDING DEPARTMENT
   TITLE SIX - MISCELLANEOUS BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
CHAP. 1460.   ABANDONED AUTOMOBILE SERVICE AND FILLING STATIONS
      
CHAP. 1464.   FENCES AND WALLS
      
CHAP. 1466.   GENERAL BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
CHAP. 1476.   SWIMMING POOLS
      
CHAP. 1477.   USES OF RIGHTS-OF-WAY
      
CHAP. 1478.   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES
   TITLE EIGHT - HOUSING
      
CHAP. 1480.   HOUSING AND PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
TITLE TWO: BUILDING STANDARDS
CHAPTER 1420: OHIO BASIC BUILDING CODE
Section
1420.01   Codes.
1420.02   Compliance; violations.
1420.03   File and distribution copies.
1420.99   Penalty; equitable remedies.
Statutory reference:
   Abandoned service stations, see R.C. §§ 3791.12 et seq.
   Application, see R.C. §§ 3781.06, 3781.061, 3781.10(A), 3781.11(A)
   Dead bolt locks in apartment buildings, see R.C. § 3781.103
   Energy conservation, see R.C. Chapter 156
   Enforcement, see R.C. §§ 3781.03, 3781.031, 3781.10(E), 3781.102, 3781.19
   Final jurisdiction, see R.C. § 3781.04
   Power to enact further and additional regulations, see R.C. § 3781.01
   Removal of unsafe structures, see R.C. §§ 715.26(B), 715.261
   Safety standards for refuse containers, see R.C. § 3791.21
   Smoke detection system for apartments and condominiums, see R.C. § 3781.104
   Submission of plans, see R.C. § 3791.04
   Use of public buildings by disabled persons, see R.C. § 3781.111
§ 1420.01 CODES ADOPTED.
   There is hereby adopted, for the purpose of establishing rules and
regulations for the location, design, materials, construction, repair,
equipment, use, occupancy, maintenance, removal and demolition of all
structures, except insofar as such matters are otherwise specifically provided
for in any other applicable law or ordinance those certain codes known as the
Ohio Building Code (OBC) and related codes as adopted by the Ohio Board of
Building Standards, Ohio Department of Commerce as published in Division 4101:
1 et seq. of the Ohio Administrative Code (OAC), as the same may be amended
from time to time.
§ 1420.02 COMPLIANCE; VIOLATIONS.
   (a)   No owner or any other person shall construct, erect, build or equip
any building or structure to which the OBBC is applicable, or make any addition
thereto or alteration thereof, except in the case of repairs or maintenance
that does not affect the construction, sanitation, safety or any other vital
feature of such building or structure, without complying with this chapter,
R.C. Chs. 3781 and 3791 or the OBBC, or fail to comply with any lawful order
issued pursuant thereto.
(R.C. §§ 3791.01, 3791.02)
   (b)   No architect, builder, engineer, plumber, carpenter, mason,
contractor, subcontractor, foreman or employee shall violate or assist in
violating any of the provisions of this chapter, R.C. Chs. 3781 and 3791 or the
OBBC, or fail to comply with any lawful order issued pursuant thereto.
(R.C. §§ 3791.01, 3791.03)
   (c)   No owner or any other person shall proceed with the construction,
erection, alteration or equipment of any building or structure to which the
OBBC is applicable without complying with this chapter and the plan and
specification submission and processing requirements of the village and/or the
OBBC and until plans or drawings, specifications and data have been approved or
the industrialized unit has been inspected at the point of origin.
(R.C. § 3791.04)
§ 1420.03 FILE AND DISTRIBUTION COPIES.
   At least one copy of the OBBC, as adopted in §
1420.01, is on file with the Fiscal Officer for inspection by the public. At
least one copy of such Code is also on file in the County Law Library. In
addition, the Fiscal Officer shall keep copies of such Code available for
distribution to the public, at cost.
§ 1420.99 PENALTY; EQUITABLE REMEDIES.
   (a)   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter, including any provision of the OBBC adopted in §
1420.01, is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree for each offense.
Unless otherwise provided, a separate offense shall be deemed committed each
day during or on which a violation or noncompliance occurs or continues.
   (b)   The application of the penalty provided in division (a) hereof shall
not be deemed to prevent the enforced removal of prohibited conditions, or the
application of any other equitable remedy.
CHAPTER 1422: OBOA ONE-, TWO- AND THREE-FAMILY DWELLING CODE
Section
1422.01   Code adopted.
1422.02   Appeal.
1422.03   Conflict of laws.
1422.99   Penalty.
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of technical codes by reference, see R.C. § 731.231
   Ohio Basic Bulding Code, see R.C. § 3781.10; B. & H.
Ch. 1420
   Removal of unsafe structures, see R.C. §§ 715.26(B), 715.261
§ 1422.01 CODE ADOPTED.
   To regulate the erection, construction, repair, alteration and maintenance
of residential dwellings, the “Residential Code of Ohio for One-, Two-, and
Three-Family Dwellings” as adopted by the Ohio Board of Building Standards
pursuant to R.C. § 3781.10 shall apply and be enforced within the village. It
is adopted by reference and made a part of the Building Code of the village as
if fully set forth herein.
(Ord. 01-2011, passed 3-14-2011)
§ 1422.02 APPEAL.
   Any person or entity aggrieved by an order, decision or determination of the
Building Official relative to the application of the “Residential Code of Ohio
for One-, Two-, and Three-Family Dwellings” may appeal to the village’s
Planning and Zoning Commission.
(Ord. 01-2011, passed 3-14-2011)
§ 1422.03 CONFLICT OF LAWS.
   Whenever any provision of the Building Code conflicts with or is
inconsistent with the provisions of model codes adopted by reference herein,
the more restrictive provision shall apply.
(Ord. 01-2011, passed 3-14-2011)
§ 1422.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or entity that violates or fails to comply with any provision of
this chapter for which no other penalty has been provided, or fails to comply
with an order or regulation made hereunder, or builds in violation of a
building permit or certificate issued hereunder, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree for each and every violation and
noncompliance. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or
on which an offense occurs or continues. The imposition of a penalty shall not
excuse the violation or permit it to continue, and the application of such
penalty shall not be held to prevent the enforced removal or prohibited
conditions.
(Ord. 01-2011, passed 3-14-2011)
TITLE FOUR: BUILDING ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1440: ADMINISTRATION GENERALLY
Section
1440.01   Duties of Building Inspector and Planning and Zoning Clerk.
1440.02   Authority of inspectors; right of entry.
1440.03   Notification of readiness for inspection.
1440.04   Disclaimer of liability.
1440.05   Violations.
1440.99   Penalty.
Cross-reference:
   Permits and fees, see
Ch. 1442
   Plumbing Inspector, see
Ch. 1444
Statutory reference:
   Fees for plan approval, see R.C. § 3791.07
   Ohio State building standards, see R.C. Ch. 3781
   Power to regulate building erection, see R.C. §§ 715.26, 715.29, 737.28,
737.37
   Required submission of plans of public buildings, see R.C. § 3791.04
§ 1440.01 DUTIES OF BUILDING INSPECTOR AND PLANNING AND ZONING CLERK.
   (a)   The Building Inspector shall be charged with the survey and inspection
of buildings and structures and with the enforcement of all parts of this
Building and Housing Code.
   (b)   The Building Inspector shall enforce all other laws and ordinances
relating to buildings and structures in the village.
   (c)   The Planning and Zoning Clerk shall keep a proper record showing the
location, value and character of every building, structure or other work for
which a certificate or permit is issued and a copy of every report of
inspection of a building, structure or work, with the name of the inspector
making the inspection and the date thereof.
§ 1440.02 AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (a)   The Building Inspector and his or her deputies are hereby given the
authority to make such tests as may be necessary to determine the condition of
any building or structure which it becomes their duty, under the provisions of
this Building and Housing Code, to inspect.
   (b)   The Building Inspector and his or her deputies shall have the power to
enter any building or structure within the village for the purpose of
inspecting the same and for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this
chapter. No person shall hinder or prevent the Inspector or his or her deputies
from entering any building or structure for such purposes.
(Ord. 46, passed 10-11-1956)
§ 1440.03 NOTIFICATION OF READINESS FOR INSPECTION.
   The owner, superintendent or contractor in charge of any building being
erected or altered shall notify the Building Inspector when an excavation is
made and the foundation or footing materials are on the premises, giving the
location of the work and the number of the permit. No person shall build any
wall or place any floor beams on said foundation until the excavation and
foundation or footings are approved by the Inspector. Whenever any building has
reached the point in construction where the same is ready for lath and plaster
or drywall, including the complete installation of all water, steam, gas and
furnace stacks and all electric wires and appliances, the owner, superintendent
or contractor in charge of erecting or altering such building shall notify the
Inspector that the building is ready for a lath inspection.
(Ord. 46, passed 10-11-1956)
§ 1440.04 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (a)   Any officer charged with the enforcement of this Building and Housing
Code, acting for the village in the discharge of his or her duties, shall not
render himself or herself liable personally, and he or she is hereby relieved
from all personal liability for any damage that may occur to persons or
property as a result of any act permitted in the discharge of his or her
duties.
   (b)   Any suit brought against any officer or employee because of any act
performed by him or her in the enforcement of any provision of this Building
and Housing Code shall be defended by the Director of Law until the final
termination of the proceedings.
(Ord. 46, passed 10-11-1956)
§ 1440.05 VIOLATIONS.
   No owner of any building or premises shall suffer, permit or allow anything
in violation of any of the provisions of this Building and Housing Code to be
done or exist, and no architect, builder, contractor or other person who or
which may be employed to assist in such work shall violate or fail to comply
with any of the provisions thereof, or violate or fail to comply with any order
or regulation made thereunder, or build in violation of any detailed statement
of specifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder, or any
certificate or permit issued thereunder.
§ 1440.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree for each offense. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a
violation or noncompliance occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 1442: PERMITS AND FEES
Section
1442.01   Submittal of plans and specifications to Planning and Zoning
Commission.
1442.02   Time limits on permits.
1442.03   Permits for removal or demolition.
1442.04   Certificates of occupancy and compliance.
1442.05   Revocation of permits.
1442.06   Developments in flood-prone areas.
1442.07   Fee for fences and minor work.
1442.08   Fee for new construction and major remodeling.
1442.09   Fees for inspections of electrical, plumbing and heating and cooling
systems.
1442.10   Fee for demolition.
1442.11   Fee and deposit for moving of buildings.
1442.12   Fee for additional inspections.
1442.13   Fees for work requiring reviews or studies by independent civil
engineers or architects.
1442.14   Payment of fees.
1442.99   Penalty.
Cross-reference:
   Building permits generally, see §§
1232.01(c)(4),
1232.02(d)(6)
   Issuance of building permits, see §
1212.02
   Submittal of permit applications and related documents; issuance; appeals,
see §
1202.06
Statutory reference:
   Inspections; access to buildings, see R.C. § 737.37
§ 1442.01 SUBMITTAL OF PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS TO PLANNING AND ZONING
COMMISSION.
   All plans, complete with specifications, shall be submitted to the Planning
and Zoning Commission for approval.
§ 1442.02 TIME LIMITS ON PERMITS.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall require any change in the plans,
construction or designated use of buildings for which a building permit has
been heretofore issued. Permits will be revoked unless construction shall have
been begun and a foundation dug within 90 days of the date of issuance of such
permit and unless such building shall have been completed within one year from
the date the foundation was dug. For good cause shown, satisfactory to the
Building Inspector, such time limits may be extended with a right of appeal to
Council or the Planning and Zoning Commission.
(Ord. 46, passed 10-11-1956)
§ 1442.03 PERMITS FOR REMOVAL OR DEMOLITION.
   No permit to remove or raze a building or structure shall be granted until
notice of the application therefor shall have been given to the owner or owners
of lots adjoining the lot upon which said building or structure is located or
to which the building or structure is to be moved, and to the owners of wire or
other impediments the removal of which will be necessary, nor until an
opportunity has been given such owners to be heard before the Planning and
Zoning Commission, nor until a bond in the penal sum of not less than $50 nor
more than $500, as fixed by the Mayor, shall have been filed with the Village
Fiscal Officer to indemnify the municipality for damage.
(Ord. 46, passed 10-11-1956)
§ 1442.04 CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY AND COMPLIANCE.
   No person shall occupy or permit the use of any building or part thereof
hereafter erected, altered or changed in use or construction until a
certificate of occupancy and compliance has been secured from the Building
Inspector stating that the building or premises comply with all the provisions
of this Building and Housing Code and all other ordinances of the village;
provided, however, that nothing in this section shall prevent the continuation
of any occupancy or use existing at the time of the adoption of this section.
(Ord. 46, passed 10-11-1956)
§ 1442.05 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (a)   Each and every building permit issued under these codified ordinances
shall be subject to revocation by the Building Inspector whenever it appears
that the building or structure being constructed is, in whole or in part, being
constructed in violation of any of the provisions of this Building and Housing
Code or of any state statute or is encroaching on village property.
   (b)   The revocation of the permit shall be served upon the owner or upon
the superintendent or contractor in charge of the work.
(Ord. 46, passed 10-11-1956)
§ 1442.06 DEVELOPMENTS IN FLOOD-PRONE AREAS.
   (a)   Permits Required. Permits shall be required for all proposed
construction or other development in the village, including the placement of
mobile homes, so that it may be determined whether such construction or
development is proposed within a flood-prone area.
   (b)   Review Procedure. The Chairperson of the Planning and Zoning
Commission shall:
      (1)   Review all proposed developments to assure that all necessary
permits have been received from those governmental agencies from which approval
is required by federal or state law, including § 404 of the Federal Water
Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334, as amended;
      (2)   Review all permit applications to determine whether proposed
building sites will be reasonably safe from flooding. If a proposed building
site is in a flood-prone area, all new construction and substantial
improvements, including the placement of prefabricated buildings and mobile
homes, shall:
         A.   Be designed or modified and adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure;
         B.   Be constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to
flood damage; and
         C.   Be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood
damage.
      (3)   Review all subdivision proposals and other new development
proposals to determine whether such subdivision and development of land will be
reasonably safe from flooding. If a proposed subdivision or other new
development is in a flood-prone area, the proposal shall be reviewed to assure
that:
         A.   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage within the flood-prone area;
         B.   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewerage, gas,
electrical and water systems, are located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage; and
         C.   Adequate drainage is provided to reduce exposure to flood
hazards.
      (4)   Require, within flood-prone areas, new and replacement water supply
systems to be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters
into the systems; and
      (5)   Require, within flood-prone areas:
         A.   New and replacement sanitary sewerage systems to be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters; and
         B.   On-site waste disposal systems to be located so as to avoid
impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. 204, passed 6-13-1977)
§ 1442.07 FEE FOR FENCES AND MINOR WORK.
   (a)   (1)   Permits for minor internal or external remodeling and minor
repairs that require a permit but do not require an inspection by the Building
Inspector, shall be set forth in the Fee Schedule of the Village of Minerva
Park as adopted by Village Council.
      (2)   The fee for fences for a fence permit shall be set forth on the Fee
Schedule of the Village of Minerva Park as adopted by Council. Fee(s) due
hereunder shall be paid in advance in accordance with the fees set forth in the
Village of Minerva Park Fee Schedule as revised and adopted from time to time.
   (b)   All proposed fences or fence modifications require a permit and
approval by the Planning and Zoning Commission or, in its stead, variance
approval by Village Council in accordance with commonly accepted processes, as
applicable.
   (c)   The Village Mayor, Fiscal Officer and Law Director are authorized to
take further actions consistent with this section that are needed to carry out
the intentions establishing and adopting a fee schedule for the Village of
Minerva Park.
(Ord. 02-2010, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 1442.08 FEE FOR NEW CONSTRUCTION AND MAJOR REMODELING.
   (a)   Fee for New Construction. The fee for a permit to construct a new
structure, such as a single- family or multi-family dwelling, or commercial
building is $1,500 up to 1,400 square feet of living area and an additional
$150 per 100 square feet above 1,400 square feet of living area. The heating
permit is $180 which requires a safety certification. The heating permit for a
fireplace is $90, which requires a safety certification. The temporary
electrical permit which establishes electricity to the home and includes the
box installation and inspection is $75. The final electrical permit which is
the final house wiring inspection is $240. Proof of all required heating,
plumbing, electrical, structural inspections shall be filed with the Planning
and Zoning Commission upon inspection completion.
   (b)   Fee for Major Remodeling.
      (1)   The fee for a permit for major remodeling includes room additions,
constructing garages, decks, patios, seasonal rooms and accessory buildings
over 25 square feet are as follows. Major remodeling is considered changes that
would require adding or moving outside walls, adding or changing floor or
ceiling supports and adding or changing electrical, plumbing or HVAC systems.
In the case of commercial buildings and multiple family dwellings, a permit
shall not be issued until the presentation of a valid state building permit.
      (2)   Processing fee and initial permit shall be paid upon approval of
Planning and Zoning Commission at the time of approval of major remodeling
plans. Proof of all required heating, plumbing, electrical and structural
inspections shall be filed with the Planning and Zoning Commission upon
completion. The final inspection by a Planning and Zoning Official, or,
appointed certified Building Inspector will be performed at completion of the
intended project at which time the final area fee should be satisfied within 30
days of the final inspection.
      (3)   These fees are:
Building inspection fee based on area:                       
- 001 to 100 square feet                                    $25
- 101 to 500 square feet                                    $50
- 500+ square feet                                          $100
Processing fee                                              $10
Combined heating/plumbing/electrical/structural - permit/   Proof of inspection
inspection
Fireplace - permit/inspection (fireplace, wood, gas burning Proof of inspection
stoves)
Initial permit/inspection (footer/foundation and project    $20
start within 90 days)
 
(Ord. 4-2004, passed 8-9-2004)
§ 1442.09 FEES FOR INSPECTIONS OF ELECTRICAL, PLUMBING AND HEATING AND COOLING
SYSTEMS.
   The fee for a permit for minor remodeling and repairs that will require
inspection of new or replaced electrical wiring or fixtures, plumbing or
heating and cooling systems shall be $25 for each inspection required. The fee
for a permit for special or miscellaneous construction requiring inspections,
such as, hot tubs, above-ground pools or in-ground pools that have plumbing,
electrical or heating systems, shall be as follows:
   (a)   Hot tub and above-ground pool permit fees are $50; and
   (b)   Below-ground pool permit fee is $100, and proof of plumbing,
electrical or structural permit/inspection shall be filed with the Planning and
Zoning Commission.
(Ord. 5-2004, passed 8-9-2004)
§ 1442.10 FEE FOR DEMOLITION.
   The fee for a demolition permit shall be $25 for each building.
(Ord. 5-88, passed 9-12-1988)
§ 1442.11 FEE AND DEPOSIT FOR MOVING OF BUILDINGS.
   The fee for moving a building upon or over the streets of the village shall
be $100, plus a $1,000 deposit to cover the cost of repairs or damage or other
expense incurred during and as a result of the move. If no damage is evidenced
after an inspection by the Village Engineer, the deposit shall be returned.
(Ord. 5-88, passed 9-12-1988)
§ 1442.12 FEE FOR ADDITIONAL INSPECTIONS.
   If more than one inspection is required due to faulty construction, an
improper address, an inability to gain access to the inspection site, or for
any reason that is not the fault of the Building Inspector, the Inspector may
charge $25 for each additional inspection.
(Ord. 5-88, passed 9-12-1988)
§ 1442.13 FEES FOR WORK REQUIRING REVIEWS OR STUDIES BY INDEPENDENT CIVIL
ENGINEERS OR ARCHITECTS.
   Permits for work to be done that would require reviews or studies by
independent civil engineers or architects shall be $200, plus the fee charged
by the engineers or architects. These fees shall be determined by the Planning
and Zoning Commission after an initial request for the permit has been
received.
(Ord. 5-88, passed 9-12-1988)
§ 1442.14 PAYMENT OF FEES.
   Fees shall be paid to the Fiscal Officer at the time the approved permit is
issued.
(Ord. 5-88, passed 9-12-1988)
§ 1442.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree for each offense. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a
violation or noncompliance occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 1444: PLUMBING INSPECTOR
Section
1444.01   Appointment; certification.
Cross-reference:
   Fees for inspections of plumbing systems, see §
1442.09
Statutory reference:
   Power to license plumbers, see R.C. § 715.27
   Regulations to control house sewers and connections to sewerage system, see
R.C. § 729.51
§ 1444.01 APPOINTMENT; CERTIFICATION.
   The County Plumbing Inspector shall be certified as the Village Plumbing
Inspector, pursuant to appointment by the Mayor.
(Ord. 3-88, passed 4-11-1988)
CHAPTER 1446: RESIDENTIAL BUILDING DEPARTMENT
Section
1446.01   Established.
1446.02   Authority.
§ 1446.01 ESTABLISHED.
   The village’s Residential Building Department is hereby established.
(Ord. 12-2007, passed 6-11-2007)
§ 1446.02 AUTHORITY.
   The village’s Residential Building Department shall have full authority to
enforce all laws, statutes, and regulations as provided and authorized in the
Ohio Revised Code and the Ohio Administrative Code pursuant to the
certification approved by and certification rule adopted by the Ohio Board of
Building Standards.
(Ord. 12-2007, passed 6-11-2007)
TITLE SIX: MISCELLANEOUS BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1460: ABANDONED AUTOMOBILE SERVICE AND FILLING STATIONS
Section
1460.01   Abandoned automobile service or filling station defined.
1460.02   Presumption of nuisance; abatement.
1460.03   Notice to abate; adaptation for new use; razing; exceptions;
extensions.
1460.04   Noncompliance; authority of Mayor.
1460.05   Maintenance of inoperative, but not abandoned, stations.
1460.99   Penalty.
Cross-reference:
   Fire Prevention Code, see
Ch. 1610
Statutory reference:
   Abandoned gas stations, see R.C. §§ 3791.12 et seq.
§ 1460.01 ABANDONED AUTOMOBILE SERVICE OR FILLING STATION DEFINED.
   For the purposes of this chapter, “abandoned automobile service and filling
station” means any automobile service and filling station in which the owner or
lessee has failed to operate for at least six months in any 12-month period.
(Ord. 171, passed 4-8-1974)
§ 1460.02 PRESUMPTION OF NUISANCE; ABATEMENT.
   All automobile service and filling stations which, on the effective date of
this chapter or at any time thereafter, are abandoned for use as such shall be
presumed to be a nuisance affecting or endangering surrounding property values
and to be detrimental to the public health, safety, convenience, comfort,
property or general welfare of the community and shall be abated.
(Ord. 171, passed 4-8-1974)
§ 1460.03 NOTICE TO ABATE; ADAPTATION FOR NEW USE; RAZING; EXCEPTIONS;
EXTENSIONS.
   (a)   (1)   Whenever it is found that any automobile service and filling
station has been abandoned, the Mayor, as Village Administrator, shall give
notice to the owner of record in the same manner as service of a summons in
civil cases, by certified mail addressed to the owner of record at his or her
last known address or to the address to which tax bills are sent, or by a
combination of the foregoing methods, to abate such abandoned condition within
60 days by placing the station in operation in accordance with law, by adapting
or using the building for another permitted business use or by razing the
service and filling station structure.
      (2)   Adaptation or razing shall include:
         A.   Removing the pumps and signs;
         B.   Abandoning the underground storage tanks in accordance with
accepted safety practices prescribed by the National Fire Protection
Association in Appendix C to N.F.P.A. No. 30, under the supervision of the Fire
Department of the City of Columbus or designated village personnel;
         C.   Removing the pump islands and all electrical wires attendant
thereto; and
         D.   Filling all depressions to the grade level of the lot.
   (b)   The provisions of division (a) hereof shall not apply if:
      (1)   The automobile service and filling station is in operation at the
time a notice is given and remains in operation for 90 days thereafter;
      (2)   A national emergency is declared which would, for the duration of a
certain specified period, curtail the operation of motor vehicles;
      (3)   Council determines that a state of general economic depression
exists, except that in such a case, paragraph (a)(2)B. hereof shall still be
complied with; or
      (4)   Street widening, sewer installation or other public improvement
requires the closure of the automobile service and filling station during the
period of construction of said improvements.
   (c)   For good cause shown, an extension for a reasonable period, not to
exceed 90 days per extension, may be granted by the Mayor.
(Ord. 171, passed 4-8-1974)
§ 1460.04 NONCOMPLIANCE; AUTHORITY OF MAYOR.
   Upon the failure, refusal or neglect of an owner of any abandoned automobile
service and filling station to comply with a notice to abate such abandonment,
given in accordance with §
1460.03, the Mayor shall take such action as may be necessary to abate such
nuisance. The reasonable cost of abating such nuisance shall be reported to
Council which may assess such cost on the real estate on which the abandoned
automobile service and filling station is located. Such remedy shall be in
addition to the penalty provided in §
1460.99.
(Ord. 171, passed 4-8-1974)
§ 1460.05 MAINTENANCE OF INOPERATIVE, BUT NOT ABANDONED, STATIONS.
   Inoperative automobile service and filling stations which do not come within
the definition of abandoned automobile service and filling stations shall be
maintained in accordance with the following.
   (a)   The exterior of all windows shall be covered with one-half inch
plywood, painted, and so fastened as to ensure against vandalism, wind damage
and other incidents of destruction.
   (b)   All utilities shall be disconnected or turned off.
   (c)   The parking of motor vehicles shall be prohibited on the property and
the owner shall place on the window area of the automobile service and filling
station a sign, with a minimum area of ten square feet, prohibiting parking or
trespassing.
(Ord. 171, passed 4-8-1974)
§ 1460.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree for each offense. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a
violation or noncompliance occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 1464: FENCES AND WALLS
Section
1464.01   Location and height.
1464.02   Construction outside of lot lines; posts and support structures.
1464.03   Design and materials.
1464.99   Penalty.
Cross-reference:
   Basement walls and floor drains, see §
1466.04
   Landscaping buffers between certain land uses, see §§
1278.03 et seq.
   Protective barriers around swimming pools, see §
1476.05
Statutory reference:
   Fences generally, see R.C. Ch. 971
   Power to regulate fences, see R.C. § 715.27
§ 1464.01 LOCATION AND HEIGHT.
   (a)   Fence Construction and Location.
      (1)   No fence or wall shall be erected forward of a line 14 feet back
from the immediately adjacent front building line of a dwelling or structure on
any lot.
      (2)   No fence or free-standing wall shall exceed 72 inches in height,
measured from the natural ground, including lattice panels. Where a fence or
wall is constructed on a mound, or where the ground under the same has been
raised to a higher level than the surrounding surface, the permissible height
of the structure shall be reduced by the height of such mound or raised
surface.
      (3)   Decorative post caps, finials, or ornamental features shall not
exceed 12 inches above the top of fence panels, pickets, or walls nor be more
than six inches in width spaced closer than four feet on center.
      (4)   Supporting posts of any fence type shall be on the side that faces
the installer’s dwelling.
      (5)   Free-standing walls constructed of brick, concrete block, or stone
must be constructed on a foundation starting 36 inches below grade and designed
by a structural engineer or architect. All portions of the footing must be
within the lot line.
      (6)   Fences and walls may be constructed of the following materials:
         A.   Fences: wood or wood composite or similar materials; PVC or vinyl
or similar materials; aluminum, chain link or wire, or a combination of these
materials.
         B.   Walls: stone, brick, poured concrete or block.
      (7)   Chain-link type fences shall not exceed 48 inches in height and
must be vinyl coated dark green, dark brown, or black.
      (8)   Welded wire fencing painted black, dark green or dark brown may be
attached to the inside of a fence.
      (9)   Only one style of wall or fence may be permitted per property line.
      (10)   The maximum ground clearance from the natural ground to the bottom
of the panel, picket or wall shall not exceed three inches.
      (11)   Lighting features or lighting built into a fence shall not extend
above the height of the fence panel.
      (12)   Artificially raising the height of the base upon which the fence
is constructed by use of mounding, retaining walls or similar means shall be
included within the 72 inch maximum height restriction of fences and walls.
      (13)   Sharp edges and electrically charged fence materials are not
permitted.
   (b)   Permitting, Inspecting and Acceptance.
      (1)   No fence may be installed or constructed without first obtaining a
permit from the Code Enforcement Officer and the Mayor or his or her designee.
      (2)   Applicants shall determine property lines prior to constructing a
fence and shall ensure the fence does not encroach upon another lot or parcel
of land.
      (3)   All permits expire six months after issuance and are not
transferable between owners.
      (4)   A permit filing and a fee shall be collected in accordance with the
fee schedule established by the Council and in force on the date the permit
filing and review fee is due and payable.
      (5)   If fence construction is not declared complete by the Code
Enforcement Officer within six months from permit approval, the property owner
must re-apply for a permit.
      (6)   Fence installation shall be inspected by the Code Enforcement
Officer or other designated village official, twice: first when the post holes
have been dug, second at the completion of the fence construction. Only after
the Code Enforcement officer has approved the completed fence will the Planning
and Zoning Commission accept the fence as a permanent improvement on any lot,
part of a lot or combination of lots.
      (7)   Repair to fences that require the replacement posts, or greater
than 50% of fencing material must obtain a fence permit at one half the cost of
a new fence permit.
      (8)   Variances to the accessory structure ordinance may be granted by
Village Council after recommendation by the Planning and Zoning Commission for
conditions of hardship. Application for a variance from the requirements of
village ordinances is defined in §
1232.01.
      (9)   Violation or failure to comply with any of the provisions of this
section shall be considered a minor misdemeanor punishable per day per
occurrence. Nothing herein shall prevent the village from taking corrective
action or such other lawful action, including civil actions at law or equity,
including temporary restraining orders, preliminary injunctions and permanent
injunctions, as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violations.
(Ord. 3-93, passed 10-11-1993; Ord. 05-2017, passed 6-19-2017)
§ 1464.02 CONSTRUCTION OUTSIDE OF LOT LINES; POSTS AND SUPPORT STRUCTURES.
   No portion of a fence or wall shall be constructed outside of a dwelling lot
line, and all posts and support structures shall be on the inside of that side
of the premises that faces the installer’s dwelling.
(Ord. 3-93, passed 10-11-1993)
§ 1464.03 DESIGN AND MATERIALS.
   The design of any fence or wall and the material used for the construction
of the same shall be approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission. Wood fence
structures may include, but not be limited to, picket fences, hurdle fences,
post and rail fences, split fences and woven wood fences. Descriptions of the
same are on file with the Planning and Zoning Commission.
(Ord. 3-93, passed 10-11-1993)
§ 1464.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree for each offense. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a
violation or noncompliance occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 1466: GENERAL BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
1466.01   Grades.
1466.02   Curbs.
1466.03   Gravel spread on driveways.
1466.04   Basement walls and floor drains.
1466.05   Discharge of storm waters into sanitary sewerage system; drainage.
1466.06   Roof gutters.
1466.07   Covering for exterior walls.
1466.08   Sanitation at construction sites.
1466.99   Penalty.
Cross-reference:
   Construction in subdivisions, see §§
1218.01 et seq.
   OBOA One-, Two- and Three-Family Dwelling Code, see
Ch. 1422
   Operation and transportation of machinery and materials, see §
648.10
Statutory reference:
   Ohio Basic Building Code, see R.C. §§ 3781.10; B. & H.
Ch. 1420
   Power to regulate building erection, see R.C. §§ 715.26, 715.29, 737.28,
737.37
§ 1466.01 GRADES.
   No grade shall be higher or lower than the natural drainage grade and all
grades must conform to the grade of one’s neighbors or of adjoining lots, as
designated by the Building Inspector.
(Ord. 46, passed 10-11-1956)
§ 1466.02 CURBS.
   All curbs shall be cut and cemented prior to building and shall be subject
to the Building Inspector’s approval.
(Ord. 46, passed 10-11-1956)
§ 1466.03 GRAVEL SPREAD ON DRIVEWAYS.
   All driveways shall have gravel spread before the hauling of construction
materials begins. The gravel shall start at the cement where the curb has been
cut.
(Ord. 46, passed 10-11-1956)
§ 1466.04 BASEMENT WALLS AND FLOOR DRAINS.
   All basement walls shall be coated with an approved waterproofing material
on the outside and all basement floor drains shall be tiled.
(Ord. 46, passed 10-11-1956)
§ 1466.05 DISCHARGE OF STORM WATERS INTO SANITARY SEWERAGE SYSTEM; DRAINAGE.
   (a)   No person shall discharge, or cause or permit to be discharged, either
directly or indirectly, by any means, any storm water, roof water, surface or
subsurface drainage water, including water from building foundation drains or
subsoil drains, cooling water or unpolluted industrial process water, into the
sanitary sewerage system of the village. Existing connections of subsoil drains
to house sewers, heretofore lawfully made, may be retained, notwithstanding the
provisions of the preceding sentence.
   (b)   No foundation or subsoil shall be installed in such a manner as to
permit the drainage therefrom to overflow onto the basement floor.
   (c)   Each building basement shall be equipped with a sump and a sump pump
capable of discharging any subsurface drainage that might otherwise enter the
sanitary sewerage system. The sump pump shall be provided with a discharge line
leading to the street gutter, a storm sewer or a drainage ditch. If no such
outlet is available, the discharge line shall be led to such part of the
premises as, in the opinion of the Building Inspector, is best suited for
dissipating said water with the least possibility of damage to property or
persons.
   (d)   The Building Inspector shall have the authority to make regulations
relative to the design, construction, size, type of material and method of
installation of sumps, sump pumps and discharge lines for the purpose of
assuring the satisfactory functioning thereof. Any person aggrieved by a
decision of the Inspector in this regard shall have the right to appeal to
Council.
(Ord. 116, passed 5-9-1966)
§ 1466.06 ROOF GUTTERS.
   All roof gutters shall be tiled to the street upon which the house is
facing.
(Ord. 46, passed 10-11-1956)
§ 1466.07 COVERING FOR EXTERIOR WALLS.
   All exterior walls of cement or cinder block construction in all structures
shall be covered with a minimum of one-half inch cement stucco.
(Ord. 46, passed 10-11-1956; Ord. 60, passed 2-13-1958)
§ 1466.08 SANITATION AT CONSTRUCTION SITES.
   (a)   It shall be the duty of the owner of any lot and the duty of any
building contractor doing construction work on any lot to store any and all
building supplies, materials and equipment on the lot on which work is being
done, at least ten feet from the curb line.
   (b)   It shall be the duty of the owner of each lot on which construction
work is being performed and the duty of each contractor performing or
supervising construction work on any lot in the village, at the end of each
work day, to clean and remove all dirt and debris from the streets.
   (c)   If an owner or contractor fails to comply with division (a) or (b)
hereof, the Mayor of the village is authorized to employ such person or persons
as are necessary to carry into effect the provisions of such divisions and such
person or persons shall be paid from moneys deposited by the owner or
contractor. Such remedy shall be in addition to the penalty provided in §
1466.99.
   (d)   If an owner or contractor complies with divisions (a) and (b) hereof,
the Building Inspector shall certify such fact upon final inspection of the
building, and any funds remaining by reason of any deposit required by law
shall be refunded to the person making said deposit.
(Ord. 46, passed 10-11-1956)
§ 1466.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree for each offense. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a
violation or noncompliance occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 1476: SWIMMING POOLS
Section
1476.01   Swimming pool defined.
1476.02   Application of chapter.
1476.03   Construction; permit required; fee; deposit.
1476.04   Location, area and height.
1476.05   Protective barriers.
1476.06   Lights.
1476.07   Drainage.
1476.08   Filtration system.
1476.09   Violations.
1476.99   Penalty.
Cross-reference:
   Permits and fees generally, see
Ch. 1442
   Plumbing Inspector, see
Ch. 1444
   Sewers, see
Ch. 1042; §
1466.05
   Water, see
Ch. 1040
Statutory reference:
   Fences generally, see R.C. Ch. 971
§ 1476.01 SWIMMING POOL DEFINED.
   For purposes of this chapter, “swimming pool” means a body of water of
artificial construction used for swimming or recreational bathing, which is
over 24 inches in depth at any point or has more than 150 square feet of area
on the water surface when filled to capacity, together with the sides and
bottom of such pool and the equipment and appurtenances thereof.
(Ord. 73, passed 10-10-1960)
§ 1476.02 APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   All of the provisions of this chapter shall apply to private or
noncommercial swimming pools. The provisions of §§
1476.03 and
1476.05 through
1476.08 shall apply to all swimming pools.
(Ord. 73, passed 10-10-1960)
§ 1476.03 CONSTRUCTION; PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE; DEPOSIT.
   (a)   No person shall locate, construct or install a swimming pool, or make
any changes thereto or in the appurtenances thereof, without having first
submitted an application, plans and specifications therefor to, and having
obtained a permit from, the Building Inspector.
   (b)   The fee for the permit, to be collected by the Building Inspector,
shall be $15. No fee shall be required if the pool is built during the
construction of the house. No permit shall be issued unless and until the plans
and specifications have been approved by the Building Inspector as to the
structural safety of the pool and compliance of the pool with this chapter, and
unless and until the contractor has deposited a sum of $25 with the Building
Inspector. The deposit, less any fines levied, shall be returned when the
Building Inspector certifies that the contractor has complied with the
provisions of this chapter and with all other provisions of this Building and
Housing Code. The pool shall not be used until the construction thereof has
been approved by the Building Inspector.
(Ord. 73, passed 10-10-1960)
§ 1476.04 LOCATION, AREA AND HEIGHT.
   (a)   No swimming pool or any part thereof, exclusive of sidewalks, shall be
located nearer than five feet to the side or rear line of the lot or parcel
upon which it is situated or nearer to any street on which such lot or parcel
abuts than a distance ten feet greater than the building setback line, as fixed
by the Zoning Code. If a parcel consists of two lots and the house or garage is
built across the common lot line, the five-foot distance rule applies to the
boundaries of the parcel. If the house or garage does not cross the common lot
line, then the five-foot distance rule applies, unless the pool extends across
the common lot line at least three feet. The area of the pool proper, exclusive
of decks, walks and other appurtenances, shall not exceed 10% of the area of
the lot or parcel on which it is situated.
   (b)   The top of the walls, decks or walks of any swimming pool shall not
project more than two feet above the average finished grade of the pool site or
portion of the lot immediately surrounding the pool, the boundaries of which
portion extend 20 feet beyond the pool proper in each direction, except that
where any side of the pool is less than 20 feet from any lot line, the
difference between such distance and 20 feet shall be added to the required
distance of said portion beyond the opposite side thereof. In the event that
the foregoing formula cannot be applied with reasonable results, because of the
shape of the pool, the Building Inspector shall be authorized to fix the
location of the pool site to be used in determining the maximum grade of the
pool, in keeping with the results sought to be achieved by said formula. In the
event of dissatisfaction by any interested party with the determination of the
Building Inspector, an appeal may be taken to the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
   (c)   No lights, diving boards or other accessories shall project more than
ten feet above the average grade of the pool site, as determined under the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 73, passed 10-10-1960)
§ 1476.05 PROTECTIVE BARRIERS.
   (a)   Every swimming pool (including existing pools) shall have a protective
barrier such as a screened enclosure, a plastic dome or a fence of sturdy
construction. The fence shall not be less than 42 inches in height, measured
from the level of the ground where it is located, and shall be of such design
and construction as to effectually prevent a child from crawling or otherwise
passing through or under such fence. Each gate in such fence shall be provided
with a secure lock and shall be kept locked at all times when the depth of
water in the pool exceeds 18 inches, unless the pool is in use or is under the
immediate observation of a responsible person. No part of any fence shall be
located between the building setback line fixed by the Zoning Code and the
street on which the lot or parcel abuts.
   (b)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall have the power to make
exceptions to and modifications of the requirements set forth in division (a)
hereof for enclosures of existing pools in cases in which, in the Commission’s
opinion, such requirements are not essential to safety and the enforcement
thereof would work a hardship on the owner.
(Ord. 73, passed 10-10-1960)
§ 1476.06 LIGHTS.
   All lights used for illuminating any swimming pool or the surrounding areas
shall be designed, located and installed so as to confine the direct beams
thereof to the lot or parcel on which the pool is located and so as not to
constitute a nuisance or undue annoyance to occupants of abutting properties.
(Ord. 73, passed 10-10-1960)
§ 1476.07 DRAINAGE.
   Provision shall be made for the drainage of a swimming pool into a public
storm sewer where possible, unless there is a ditch or natural watercourse of
sufficient size and gradient adjacent to the pool to carry off the water
satisfactorily, in which case drainage may be made into such ditch or
watercourse.
(Ord. 73, passed 10-10-1960)
§ 1476.08 FILTRATION SYSTEM.
   Every swimming pool, including existing pools, shall be provided with a
filtration system approved by the County Board of Health.
(Ord. 73, passed 10-10-1960)
§ 1476.09 VIOLATIONS.
   No person shall use, operate, repair or maintain any swimming pool in
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, any lawful order of the
Building Inspector or any regulation of the County Board of Health or any order
of the Health Commissioner issued pursuant thereto.
(Ord. 73, passed 10-10-1960)
§ 1476.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree for each offense. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a
violation or noncompliance occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 1477: USES OF RIGHTS-OF-WAY
Section
1477.01   Purpose; scope.
1477.02   Definitions.
1477.03   Types of permits and franchises.
1477.04   Permit application.
1477.05   Criteria for granting permits.
1477.06   Terms of permits.
1477.07   Obligations of permittees.
1477.08   Permit fees.
1477.09   Construction and technical standards.
1477.10   Use of facilities by village.
1477.11   Indemnification and insurance.
1477.12   Removal of facilities.
1477.13   Permit revocation.
1477.14   Reservation of rights by village.
1477.15   Temporary removal of facilities.
1477.16   Permit non-transferable; exception.
1477.17   Separability.
1477.99   Penalty; equitable remedies.
Cross-reference:
   Cable television, see
Ch. 808 
   Electricity, see
Ch. 1046
   Gas, see
Ch. 1044
   “Property” defined to include cable television service, see §
606.01(o)
   “Services” defined to include cable television service, §
642.01(a), (r)
   Sewers, see
Ch. 1042
   Water, see
Ch. 1040
§ 1477.01 PURPOSE; SCOPE.
   (a)   The purpose of this chapter is to provide requirements for the use or
occupation of any and all rights-of-way in the village, the issuance of permits
to persons for such use or occupancy, and to set forth the policies of the
village relating thereto.
   (b)   This chapter does not take the place of any franchise, license or
permit which may be additionally required by law. Each permittee shall obtain
any and all such additional franchises, licenses or permits necessary to the
operation and conduct of its business.
   (c)   No person shall use, occupy, own or operate facilities in, under or
over any rights-of-way within the village unless such person first obtains a
franchise and/or permit conforming to the requirements set forth therein and in
this chapter.
   (d)   The policy of the village with regard to rights-of-way is hereby
declared to be:
      (1)   To promote public safety and protect public property;
      (2)   To promote the utilization of rights-of-way for the public health,
safety and welfare and to promote economic development in the village;
      (3)   To promote the availability of a wide range of utility,
communication and other services, including the rapid deployment of new
technologies and innovative services, to the village’s citizens and taxpayers
at reasonable rates;
      (4)   To promote cooperation among the village and the franchisees and
permittees in the occupation of rights-of-way, and work therein, in order to
minimize public inconvenience during work in the rights-of-way and avoid
uneconomic, unneeded and unsightly duplication of facilities;
      (5)   To ensure adequate public compensation for the regulation of the
private use of the rights- of-way and regulation thereof; and
      (6)   To promote and require reasonable accommodation of all uses of the
rights-of-way and to establish the following priority of use of the rights-of-
way, when all requested usage of the rights-of-way by permittees cannot be
accommodated:
         A.   Use by the village shall have first priority;
         B.   Use by another governmental entity with the village’s concurrence
or other uses required by law, and utility permittees and franchisees shall
have second priority;
         C.   Telecommunications permittees and franchisees shall have third
priority;
         D.   Special permittees shall have fourth priority; and
         E.   Residential permittees shall have the fifth priority;
      (7)   Provided, however, that the Mayor may reasonably require right-of-
way permittees and franchisees to cooperate to accommodate use by other
permittees and franchisees, and provided, further, that the Mayor may alter
these priorities when the Mayor reasonably determines a deviation therefrom to
be in the public interest.
   (e)   Nothing in this chapter should be construed to apply the provisions of
this chapter to facilities owned or operated by the village or any of its
operations.
   (f)   Unless otherwise specifically stated in a permit, all permits granted
hereunder shall be non- exclusive.
   (g)   This chapter shall have no effect on any existing permit until the
expiration of same.
(Ord. 6-97, passed 7-14-1997)
§ 1477.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include the future tense, words in
the plural number include the singular number, and words in the singular number
include the plural number. All capitalized terms used in the definition of any
other term shall have their meaning as otherwise defined in this chapter. The
words “shall” and “will” are mandatory and “may” is permissive. Words not
defined shall be given their common and ordinary meaning.
   (a)   “Applicant.” Any person applying for a permit hereunder.
   (b)   “Approved.” Approval by the village pursuant to this chapter or any
regulations adopted hereunder.
   (c)   “Best efforts.” The best reasonable efforts under the circumstances,
taking into consideration, among other appropriate matters, safety, expedition,
available technology and human resources and cost.
   (d)   “Cable television service.” The one-way transmission to subscribers of
video programming or any other programming service, and subscriber interaction,
if any, which is required for the selection or use of such video programming or
any other programming service.
   (e)   “Council.” The Council of the Village of Minerva Park.
   (f)   “Emergency.” A reasonably unforeseen occurrence with the potential to
endanger personal safety or health, or cause substantial damage to property,
that calls for immediate action.
   (g)   “Force majeure.” A strike, acts of God, acts of public enemies, orders
of any kind of the government of the United States of America or the State of
Ohio or any of its departments, agencies or political subdivisions, riots,
epidemics, landslides, lightning, earthquakes, fires, tornadoes, storms,
floods, civil disturbances, explosions, partial or entire failure of utilities
or any other cause or event not reasonably within the control of the disabled
party, but only to the extent that the disabled party notifies the other party
as soon as practicable regarding such “force majeure”, and then for only so
long as and to the extent that the “force majeure” prevents compliance or
causes non compliance with the provisions hereof.
   (h)   “Mayor.” The Director of Public Services (or the equivalent).
   (i)   “Permit.” The non-exclusive grant of authority to use or occupy all or
a portion of the village’s rights-of-way granted pursuant to this chapter.
   (j)   “Permittee.” Any person issued a permit pursuant to this chapter to
use or occupy all or a portion of the rights-of-way in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter and said permit.
   (k)   “Person.” Any natural person or any association, firm, partnership,
joint venture, corporation or other legally recognized entity, whether for
profit or not-for-profit.
   (l)   “Regulation.” Any rule adopted by and pursuant to the authority of
this chapter.
   (m)   “Residential related purposes.” Residential use of a right-of-way for
mailboxes, decorative purposes, curb cuts, driveways, irrigation systems and
other uses permitted in the right-of-way by ordinance.
   (n)   “Right-of-way” or “rights-of-way.” The surface of and the space above
and below any public street, public road, public highway, public freeway,
public lane, public path, public way, public alley, public court, public
sidewalk, public boulevard, public parkway, public drive or any public easement
or right-of-way now or hereafter held by the village which shall, within its
proper use, entitle a permittee, in accordance with the terms hereof and any
permit, to the use thereof for the purpose of installing or operating any
facilities as may be ordinarily necessary and pertinent to the provision of
utility, cable television, communications or other services as set forth in any
permit. “Right-of-way” shall also include publicly owned property, but only to
the extent that the use or occupation thereof is specifically granted in a
permit or by regulation.
   (o)   “Right-of-way work permit.” A permit granted by the Director,
authorizing actual physical work by a permittee in the right-of-way.
   (p)   “Telecommunications.” The transmission, between or among points
specified by the user, of information of the user’s choosing, without change in
the form or content of the information as sent and received.
(Ord. 6-97, passed 7-14-1997)
§ 1477.03 TYPES OF PERMITS AND FRANCHISES.
   (a)   The following types of permits and franchises are available for the
use of rights-of-way.
      (1)   Cable Television Franchise. A cable television franchise shall be
granted to providers of cable television service. The specific terms and
conditions of a cable television franchise shall be contained within such
franchise. This chapter shall be applicable to such franchises to the extent
specified within the franchise.
      (2)   Telecommunications or Utility Permit. A telecommunications or
utility permit shall be granted to persons who desire and are granted authority
to utilize rights-of-way to provide a public utility and/or telecommunications
service, other than cable television service.
      (3)   Special Permit. A special permit shall be granted to persons for a
specific, limited use of the rights-of-way or a specific portion thereof.
      (4)   Residential Permit. A residential permit shall be granted to an
adjacent or proximate residential landowner to occupy or use a portion of the
right-of-way for residential-related purposes.
   (b)   All permits shall specify the use or uses for which such permits are
granted and shall contain such other nondiscriminatory terms and conditions as
are appropriate and as are set forth in this chapter or conditions negotiated
and agreed to by the village and the permittee to provide for the public safety
or welfare.
(Ord. 6-97, passed 7-14-1997)
§ 1477.04 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (a)   Applications for cable television franchises shall be processed and
granted or denied pursuant to
Chapter 808 of the Business Regulation and Taxation Code; provided, however,
that a cable franchise shall only entitle the franchisee to utilize the rights-
of-way for purposes directly relating to the provision of the cable television
service. Any other right-of-way use by such franchisee shall require a separate
permit, unless specifically contained in an existing franchise agreement.
   (b)   Applicants for telecommunications or utility permits shall file an
application therefor, in such form as the village may require, along with an
application fee as established from time to time by Council. The Mayor shall
determine if the application is in order and, if so, forward the application to
Council to determine whether, in accordance with the criteria set forth in §
1477.05, the applicant should be granted a permit hereunder. Within 120 days
after receiving a complete application, Council shall make a final
determination as to whether or not such permit should be granted and, if so,
upon what terms and conditions.
   (c)   Applicants for special permits shall file an application therefor, in
such form as the village requires, along with an application fee as established
from time to time by Council. The Director shall determine if the application
is in order and if the Mayor also finds, in accordance with the criteria set
forth in §
1477.05, that the application should be granted, the Mayor shall grant such a
permit.
   (d)   Applicants for residential permits shall file an application therefor,
in such form as the village requires, along with an application fee as
established from time to time by Council. The Mayor shall determine if the
application is in order and, if so, shall grant the application so long as the
Mayor also finds, in accordance with the criteria set forth in §
1477.05, that the application should be granted. Residential permits shall be
valid until canceled by the Mayor upon 60 days’ written notice to the
permittee; provided, however, that upon a finding by the Mayor that an
emergency exists, the Mayor may cancel such permit upon such lesser notice as
is necessary under the circumstances.
   (e)   Any applicant may appeal the failure of the Mayor to grant a permit or
to recommend it to be granted upon terms and conditions acceptable to the
applicant. In order to perfect such appeal, the applicant shall file, within
ten days of the Mayor’s determination or recommendation, or within 90 days of
the filing of the application if the Mayor has taken no action, no appeal to
Council. Council shall then review the matter after affording the applicant an
opportunity to be heard, either in person or in writing. Except to the extent
otherwise appealable by law, Council’s decision shall be final.
   (f)   A permittee that desires to renew its permit under this chapter shall,
not more than 180 days nor less than 90 days before expiration of the current
permit, file an application with the village for renewal of its permit, which
shall include the information required in the original application. Within 90
days after receiving a complete application under this section, the village
shall issue a written determination granting or denying the renewal
application, in whole or in part, applying the criteria set forth in §
1477.05. If the renewal application is denied, the written determination shall
include the reasons for non-renewal. No permit shall be renewed until any
ongoing violations or defaults in the permittee’s performance of the permit, or
of the requirements of this chapter, have been cured, or a plan detailing the
corrective action to be taken by the permittee has been approved by the
village.
(Ord. 6-97, passed 7-14-1997)
§ 1477.05 CRITERIA FOR GRANTING PERMITS.
   (a)   Cable television franchises shall be granted pursuant to
Chapter 808 of the Business Regulation and Taxation Code.
   (b)   Telecommunications, utility and special permits shall be granted, or
renewed, to persons based upon a determination by the village that the
following criteria are met:
      (1)   The granting or renewal of the permit will contribute to the public
health, safety or welfare in the village;
      (2)   The granting or renewal of the permit will be consistent with the
policy of the village as set forth in §
1477.01;
      (3)   The applicant has and will continue to have liability insurance
which names the village as an additional insured, in effect in such amounts and
for such liability as the village may require, or will be self-insured pursuant
to the terms of this chapter;
      (4)   The applicant is a proper person to hold a permit and will fulfill
all of its obligations hereunder;
      (5)   The applicant possesses sufficient financial and technical ability;
      (6)   The application complies with applicable federal, state and local
telecommunications laws, rules and policies; and
      (7)   For permit renewals, that the rights-of-way possess a continuing
capacity to accommodate the applicant’s existing facilities; the applicant’s
compliance with the requirements of this chapter and the permit provisions; and
such other factors as may demonstrate that the continued grant to use the
rights-of-way will serve the community interest.
   (c)   Residential permits shall be granted if not inconsistent with the
public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 6-97, passed 7-14-1997)
§ 1477.06 TERMS OF PERMITS.
   (a)   Telecommunications and utility permits shall be granted for a term not
to exceed ten years.
   (b)   The terms of special permits shall be determined by the Mayor, but
shall in no event exceed ten years.
   (c)   Residential permits shall be granted for an indefinite period, but
shall be cancelable by the village upon 60 days’ written notice.
(Ord. 6-97, passed 7-14-1997)
§ 1477.07 OBLIGATIONS OF PERMITTEES.
   (a)   In addition to the other requirements set forth herein, each
telecommunications and/or utility and special permittee shall:
      (1)   Use its best efforts to cooperate with other franchisees and
permittees and the village for the best, most efficient, most aesthetic and
least obtrusive use of the rights-of-way, consistent with public safety, and to
minimize traffic and other disruptions, including street cuts;
      (2)   Participate in joint planning and advance notification of right-of-
way work, except such work performed in emergencies or other exigent
circumstances;
      (3)   Cooperate with other nonresidential permittees and franchisees in
the utilization of, construction in, and occupancy of, private rights-of-way,
but only to the extent that the same is not inconsistent with the grant thereof
or state or federal law;
      (4)   Upon written notice by, and at the direction of, the Director, and
at the permittees sole cost, promptly remove or rearrange facilities as
necessary, e.g., during any construction, repair or modification of any street,
sidewalk, village utility or other governmental use, or if additional or
subsequent village or other public uses of the rights-of-way are inconsistent
with then current uses of franchisees and permittees or for any other
reasonable cause as determined by the Mayor;
      (5)   Provide maps or other information in such form (including digital
form) and at such times as the village may reasonably require. Said maps and
information shall locate, describe and identify all structures and facilities
of such permittee, including pole attachments, above and in the rights-of-way;
      (6)   Perform all work, construction, maintenance or removal of
structures and facilities within the rights-of-way in accordance with good
engineering and construction practices, including any appropriate safety codes,
and in accordance with the best efforts to repair and replace any street, curb
or other portion of the right-of-way, or facilities or structures located
therein, to a condition materially equivalent to this condition prior to such
work, and to do so in a manner which minimizes inconvenience to the public, the
village and other franchisees and permittees, all in accordance with all
applicable regulations;
      (7)   Register with all appropriate underground reporting services;
      (8)   Unless otherwise set forth in a permit, not enter into leases or
other agreements for physical space, in or on the permittee’s facilities
located within the rights-of-way, without prior notice to the Mayor, to include
a general description of the uses to be made of the rights-of-way;
      (9)   Designate a single point of contact for all activities relating to
the permit in the village; and
      (10)   Ensure subcontractor compliance with all permit provisions.
(Ord. 6-97, passed 7-14-1997)
§ 1477.08 PERMIT FEES.
   Permit fees shall be as established from time to time by Council.
(Ord. 6-97, passed 7-14-1997)
§ 1477.09 CONSTRUCTION AND TECHNICAL STANDARDS.
   (a)   Upon the granting of a permit and in order to construct, operate and
maintain a telecommunications system or utility in the village, the permittee
may enter into contracts with any public utility company or any other owner or
lessee of any poles or underground facilities located within or without the
village; obtain right-of-way permits from appropriate village, state, county
and federal officials necessary to cross or otherwise use highways or roads
under their respective jurisdiction; obtain permission from the Federal
Aviation Administration to erect and maintain antennas; and obtain whatever
other permits a village, county, state or federal agency may require.
   (b)   In those areas of the village where telephone and electric services
are provided by underground facilities, all new facilities of a permittee shall
be placed underground. In all other areas, the permittee, upon request by the
village, shall use its best efforts to place facilities underground. However,
the term “facilities”, as used in the preceding sentence, shall not include
equipment which is customarily placed on or above the ground in conjunction
with underground transmission facilities (e.g., splice and terminal pedestals,
equipment cabinets and transformers). Where not otherwise required to be placed
underground by this chapter, the permittee’s system shall be located
underground at the request of the adjacent property owner, provided the
placement of such system shall be consistent with the permittee’s construction
and operating standards, and provided, further, that the excess cost over the
aerial location shall be borne by the property owner making the request. All
cable to be installed under the roadway shall be installed in conduit. Under no
circumstance shall a new pole be located in any area of the village, where it
is not replacing an existing pole, without written approval of the Director,
which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.
   (c)   A permittee shall construct, install, operate and maintain its system
in a manner consistent with all laws, ordinances, construction standards,
governmental requirements and FCC technical standards, which standards are
incorporated herein by reference.
   (d)   The permittee shall comply with the village’s normal permitting
process prior to commencing any work in the rights-of-way, except for
emergencies and as otherwise provided in this chapter. No work in the rights-
of-way shall be commenced until such time as any and all required permits have
been issued by the village. The village shall not unreasonably withhold the
granting of any permit.
   (e)   Any contractor proposed for performing the work of construction,
installation, operation, maintenance and repair of system equipment must be
properly licensed under the laws of the state and all local ordinances. The
contractor’s or permittee’s system and associated equipment erected by the
permittee within the village shall be so located as to cause minimal
interference with the proper use of streets, alleys and other public ways and
places, and to cause minimal interference with the rights and reasonable
convenience of property owners who adjoin any of said streets, alleys or other
public ways and places. No pole or other fixture placed in any public way by
the permittee shall be placed in such a manner as to interfere with normal
travel on such public way.
   (f)   The village does not guarantee the accuracy of any maps showing the
horizontal or vertical location of existing substructures. In the rights-of-
way, where necessary, the location shall be verified by excavation.
   (g)   Construction, installation, operation and maintenance of a utility or
telecommunications system shall be performed in an orderly and workmanlike
manner. When consistent with the safety codes and standards set forth in this
chapter, all cables and wires shall be installed, where possible, parallel with
electric and telephone lines. Multiple configurations shall be arranged in
parallel and bundled with due respect for engineering considerations.
   (h)   The permittee shall at all times comply with the applicable National
Electrical Safety Code (National Bureau of Standards); the applicable National
Electrical Code (National Fire Protection Association); applicable FCC or other
federal, state and local regulations; and standards as set forth in the permit.
   (i)   In any event, the system shall not endanger or interfere with the
safety of persons or property in the permit area or other areas where the
permittee may have equipment located.
   (j)   All worker facilities, conditions and procedures that are used during
construction, installation, operation and maintenance of the utility or
telecommunications system shall comply with applicable standards of the Federal
Occupational Safety and Health Administration.
   (k)   The permittee shall provide either a performance record (or self
bonding by the permittee having capitalization in excess of $50,000,000 as
determined by the Director), an irrevocable letter of credit acceptable to the
village, or a certified check in an amount determined by the Mayor, to pay the
cost of restoration of the right-of-way should the permittee fail to perform
restoration required by this chapter or the permit or to pay for the cost of
removal or relocation of the system required by this chapter should the
permittee fail to perform said removal or relocation.
   (l)   All permittees shall obtain a right-of-way work permit from the
Director prior to beginning the erection, installation or maintenance,
including tree trimming, of any lines or equipment. Prior village approval
shall not be required for emergency repairs, routine maintenance and repairs,
operations which do not require excavation in the rights-of-way, blockage of
any street or alley, or material disruption to any landscaping or structures
and/or irrigation systems. The permittee and/or its subcontractors shall leave
rights-of-way where such work is done in as good a condition or repair as they
were before such work was commenced and to the reasonable satisfaction of the
village. Such right-of-way work permit shall be issued in writing and is
subject to conditions that may be attached by the Director, including, but not
limited to, requirements concerning traffic control, safety, scheduling,
notification to adjoining property owners, and restoration with seed, sod or
specific plant materials as directed by the village. The permittee and/or its
subcontractors shall endeavor to complete, in a timely manner, repairs to the
rights- of-way. All workmanship and materials used by the permittee and/or its
subcontractors to repair the streets and roadways shall be subject to the
inspection and approval of the Director or his or her authorized agent and
shall be warranted for a period of one year from the date of completion for any
failure due to workmanship or quality of materials.
   (m)   The permittee shall furnish the village “as built” drawings not later
than 120 days after construction has been completed. Drawings shall show
ownership of conduits, ducts, poles and cables used for the telecommunications
or utility system. Drawings shall be drawn to a scale of one inch equals 100
feet using the standard format adopted by the village. The permittee shall
provide one set of such diskettes and one set of blue or black line “as built”
drawings to the Mayor, and one set of drawings and diskettes to the Village
Engineer. State plane coordinates shall be shown for benchmarks, curb lines and
structures. Drawings shall show horizontal dimensions from the curb line and
elevations.
(Ord. 6-97, passed 7-14-1997)
§ 1477.10 USE OF FACILITIES BY VILLAGE.
   (a)   The village shall have the option to request the right to install and
maintain, free of charge, upon any poles and within any underground pipes and
conduits or like facilities of any telecommunication and utility or special
permittee, communications facilities (“village facilities”) solely for
governmental use desired by the village unless:
      (1)   Such installation and maintenance unreasonably and materially
interferes with existing and future operations of the permittees; or
      (2)   Such installation and maintenance would be unduly burdensome to
such permittee. Each permittee shall cooperate with the village in the planning
and design of its facilities so as to accommodate the village’s reasonably
disclosed governmental requirements. Neither the village facilities nor the
capacity or bandwidth thereon shall be leased, licensed or otherwise made
available to third parties. The village’s use and occupancy of a permittee’s
conduit shall be limited to the right to occupy a single inner duct in any
given conduit and a single attachment to any given pole.
   (b)   The village’s right to use and occupy a permittee’s poles or conduit
shall be subject to any and all reasonable terms and conditions the permittee
requires of other third party users of its poles and conduit. The village shall
pay the permittee the reasonable cost to make the poles or conduit ready for
the village’s use and occupancy. Nothing herein shall be construed to require a
permittee to construct poles or conduits where none exist or to rearrange,
modify or alter its facilities on a pole or conduit in order to provide space
for village facilities where space is not otherwise available.
(Ord. 6-97, passed 7-14-1997)
§ 1477.11 INDEMNIFICATION AND INSURANCE.
   (a)   To the fullest extent permitted by law, all permittees shall, at their
sole cost and expense, fully indemnify, defend and hold harmless the village,
its officers, public officials, boards, commissions, agents and employees, from
and against any and all lawsuits, claims (including, without limitation,
worker’s compensation claims against the village or others), causes of actions,
actions, liability and judgments for injury or damage (including, but not
limited to, expenses for reasonable legal fees and disbursements assumed by the
village in connection therewith):
      (1)   To persons or property, in any way arising out of or through the
acts or omissions of the permittee, its subcontractors, agents or employees,
attributable to the occupation by the permittee of the right-of-way, to which
the permittee’s negligence shall in any way contribute, and regardless of
whether the village’s negligence or the negligence of any other party shall
have contributed to such claim, cause of action, judgment, injury or damage;
      (2)   Arising out of any claim for invasion of the right of privacy, for
defamation of any person, firm or corporation, or for the violation or
infringement of any copyright, trademark, trade name, service mark or patent or
any other right of any person, firm or corporation by the permittee, but
excluding claims arising out of or relating to village programming; and
      (3)   Arising out of the permittee’s failure to comply with the
provisions of any federal, state or local statute, ordinances or regulations
applicable to the permittee in its business hereunder.
   (b)   The foregoing indemnification is conditioned upon the village:
      (1)   Giving the permittee prompt notice of any claim or the commencement
of any action, suit or proceeding for which indemnification is sought;
      (2)   Affording the permittee the opportunity to participate in and fully
control any compromise, settlement or other resolution or disposition of any
claim or proceeding subject to indemnification; and
      (3)   Fully cooperating in the defense of such claim and making available
to the permittee all pertinent information under the village’s control.
   (c)   The village shall have the right to employ separate counsel in any
such action or proceeding and to participate in the investigation and defense
thereof, and the permittee shall pay the reasonable fees and expense of such
separate counsel, if employed with the approval and consent of the permittee,
or if representation of both the permittee and the village by the same attorney
would be inconsistent with accepted canons of professional ethics.
   (d)   Each permittee shall maintain insurance coverage (or self-insurance
coverage by a permittee having capitalization in excess of $50,000,000, as
determined by the Mayor) in accordance with the following.
      (1)   General Liability Insurance.
         A.   The permittee shall maintain, and, by its acceptance of any
permit granted hereunder, specifically agrees that it will maintain, throughout
the term of the permit, general liability insurance insuring the permittee in
the minimum amount of:
            1.   One million dollars per occurrence;
            2.   Two million dollars annual aggregate; and
            3.   One million dollars excess general liability per occurrence
and annual aggregate.
         B.   Such general liability insurance must be written on a
comprehensive coverage form, including the following: premises/operations;
explosion and collapse hazard; underground hazard; products/completed
operations hazard; contractual insurance; broad form property damage and
personal injury.
      (2)   Automobile Liability Insurance. The permittee shall maintain, and,
by its acceptance of any permit granted hereunder, specifically agrees that it
will maintain, throughout the term of the permit, automobile liability
insurance for owned, non-owned or rented vehicles in the minimum amount of:
         A.   One million dollars per occurrence; and
         B.   One million dollars excess automobile liability per occurrence.
      (3)   Worker’s Compensation and Employer’s Liability Insurance. The
permittee shall maintain, and, by its acceptance of any permit granted
hereunder, specifically agrees that it will maintain, throughout the term of
the franchise, worker’s compensation and employer’s liability insurance, valid
in the State of Ohio, in the minimum amount of:
         A.   Statutory limit for worker’s compensation;
         B.   One million dollars for employer’s liability per occurrence; and
         C.   One million dollars excess employer liability.
   (e)   The liability insurance policies required by this section shall be
maintained by the permittee throughout the term of the permit, and such other
period of time during which the permittee is operating without a permit
hereunder or is engaged in the removal of its telecommunications facilities.
Each such insurance policy shall contain the following endorsement:
   “It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be cancelled
nor the intention not to renew be stated until 90 days after receipt by the
village, by registered mail, of a written notice addressed to the Mayor of such
intent to cancel or not to renew. Within 60 days after receipt by the village
of said notice, and in no event later than 30 days prior to said cancellation,
the permittee shall obtain and furnish to the village replacement insurance
policies meeting the requirements of this section.”
(Ord. 6-97, passed 7-14-1997)
§ 1477.12 REMOVAL OF FACILITIES.
   (a)   In the event any nonresidential permittee intends to remove
facilities, excluding normal repairs and maintenance, or abandon any facilities
within the rights-of-way, such permittee shall submit a notice to the Mayor
describing the portion of the facilities to be removed or abandoned and the
date of removal or abandonment, which date shall not be less than 30 days from
the date such notice is submitted to the Mayor. The permittee may not remove,
destroy or permanently disable any such facilities after such notice without
the written approval of the Mayor. The permittee shall remove and secure such
facilities as set forth in the notice unless directed by the Mayor to abandon
such facilities in place.
   (b)   Upon such abandonment, the village may elect to accept title to the
abandoned facility. Such acceptance shall be in writing and upon such
acceptance, full title and ownership of such abandoned facility shall pass to
the village without the need to pay compensation to the permittee. The
permittee shall, however, continue to be responsible for all taxes on such
facilities or other liability associated therewith, until the date the same was
accepted by the village.
   (c)   Within 30 days following written notice from the village, any
permittee or other person that owns, controls or maintains any unauthorized
telecommunications facility or related appurtenances within the rights-of-way
of the village shall, at its own expense, remove such facilities or
appurtenances from the rights-of-way of the village. A telecommunications
facility is unauthorized and subject to removal in the following circumstances:
      (1)   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee’s permit;
      (2)   Upon abandonment of a facility within the rights-of-way of the
village;
      (3)   If the system or facility was constructed or installed without the
prior grant of a permit or franchise;
      (4)   If the system or facility was constructed or installed without the
prior issuance of a required construction permit; and
      (5)   If the system or facility was constructed or installed at a
location not permitted by the permittee’s permit.
   (d)   The village retains the right and privilege to cut or move any
telecommunications facilities located within the rights-of-way as the village
may determine to be necessary, appropriate or useful in response to any public
health or safety emergency.
   (e)   Unless directly and proximately caused by willful, intentional or
malicious acts by the village, the village shall not be liable for any damage
to or loss of any telecommunications facility within the rights-of-way as a
result of or in connection with any public works, public improvements,
construction, excavation, grading, filling or work of any kind in the rights-
of-way by or on behalf of the village.
   (f)   When a residential permit is cancelled, the permittee shall remove all
facilities installed in the right-of-way, at the permittee’s expense.
(Ord. 6-97, passed 7-14-1997)
§ 1477.13 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   (a)   In addition to any rights set out elsewhere in this chapter, the
village reserves the right to seek termination of a permit pursuant to the
provisions hereof, and all rights and privileges pertaining thereto, in the
event that any of the following are found to have occurred:
      (1)   A violation of any material provision of the permit;
      (2)   The permittee becomes insolvent, or is adjudged a bankrupt;
      (3)   An unauthorized sale, assignment or transfer of the permittee’s
permit or a substantial interest therein;
      (4)   Misrepresentation by or on behalf of a permittee in any application
to the village;
      (5)   Abandonment of telecommunications facilities in the rights-of-way;
      (6)   Failure to relocate or remove facilities as required in this
chapter; or
      (7)   Failure to pay taxes, compensation, fees or costs when and as due
the village.
   (b)   Upon failure of the permittee to comply with the material terms of the
permit, the village may by ordinance terminate the permit in accordance with
the procedures set forth in this section. Upon termination, all rights of the
permittee shall immediately be divested without further act upon the part of
the village. At the village’s option and to the extent permitted or in the
manner required by applicable state law, the village shall either purchase the
permittee’s facilities in accordance with §
1477.12 or the village shall require or seek to require, as the case may be,
the permittee to remove its facilities from the rights-of-way. If the village
requires removal, the permittee shall forthwith remove its structures or
property from the rights-of-way and restore them to such condition as the
village may require. Upon failure to do so, the village may perform the work
and collect the cost thereof from the permittee. The cost thereof shall be a
lien upon all facilities and property of the permittee. Such lien shall not
attach to property of the permittee located on the poles of other utilities
until removal of such property from the pole or poles.
   (c)   (1)   Upon written recommendation by the Director, or upon its own
motion, Council shall give written notice to the permittee of the existence of
a material violation or failure to comply with the permit. The permittee shall
have a period of 60 days after receipt of such notice from the village in which
to cease such violation and comply with the terms and provisions hereof. In the
event the permittee fails to cease such violation or to otherwise comply with
the terms hereof, then the permittee’s permit is subject to termination under
the following provisions, provided, however, that if the permittee commences
work or other efforts to cure such violations within 30 days after receipt of
written notice and shall thereafter prosecute each curative work with
reasonable diligence until such curative work is completed, then such
violations shall cease to exist, and the permit will not be terminated. If the
curative work is not completed within 90 days of commencement of such work, the
permittee and the Mayor shall report to the village with respect to the
progress made on such curative work and the anticipated completion date.
      (2)   Termination shall be declared only by a written decision of Council
after an appropriate public proceeding whereby the permittee is afforded the
full opportunity to be heard and to respond to any such notice of violation or
failure to comply. The permittee shall be provided at least ten days’ prior
written notice of any public hearing concerning the termination of the permit
and, in addition, ten days’ notice by publication shall be given of the date,
time and place of any public hearing to interested members of the public, which
notice shall be paid for by the permittee.
      (3)   Council, after a full public hearing, and upon finding a material
violation or failure to comply, may, in its discretion, terminate the permit or
impose a lesser penalty than termination of the permit, including, but not
limited to, a penalty of up to $1,000 per day per violation, or excuse the
violation or failure to comply upon a showing by the permittee of mitigating
circumstances or upon a showing of good cause for said violation or failure to
comply as may be determined by Council.
   (d)   The village shall have the right to terminate the permit 120 days
after the appointment of a receiver, or trustee, to take over and conduct the
business of the permittee, whether in receivership, reorganization, bankruptcy
or other action or proceeding, unless such receivership or trusteeship shall
have been vacated prior to the expiration of 120 day period or unless:
      (1)   Within 120 days after his or her election or appointment, such
receiver or trustee shall have fully complied with all the provisions of the
permit and remedied all defaults thereunder; and
      (2)   Such receiver or trustee, within said 120 days, shall have executed
an agreement, duly approved by the court having jurisdiction in the premises,
whereby such receiver or trustee assumes and agrees to be bound by each and
every provision of the permit.
(Ord. 6-97, passed 7-14-1997)
§ 1477.14 RESERVATION OF RIGHTS BY VILLAGE.
   (a)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the village from
constructing, maintaining, repairing or relocating any village utility,
communications or like facilities; grading, paving, maintaining, repairing,
relocating or altering any street or right-of-way; or constructing,
maintaining, relocating or repairing any sidewalk or other public work or
improvement.
   (b)   Nothing in this chapter should be construed so as to grant any right
or interest in any right-of- way, other than that explicitly set forth herein
or in a permit.
(Ord. 6-97, passed 7-14-1997)
§ 1477.15 TEMPORARY REMOVAL OF FACILITIES.
   In the event it is necessary temporarily to move or remove any of the
permittee’s wires, cable, poles or other facilities placed pursuant to this
chapter, in order to lawfully move a large object, vehicle, building or other
structure over the streets of the village, upon five days’ written notice by
the village to the permittee, the permittee shall, at the expense of the person
requesting the temporary removal of such facilities, comply with the village’s
request.
(Ord. 6-97, passed 7-14-1997)
§ 1477.16 PERMIT NON-TRANSFERABLE; EXCEPTION.
   A permit granted hereunder may not, directly or indirectly, be transferred,
assigned or disposed of by sale, lease, merger, consolidation or other act of
the permittee, by operation of law or otherwise, without the prior consent of
the village, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed, as
expressed by ordinance, and then only on such reasonable conditions as may be
prescribed therein. No transfer of a permit shall be approved unless the
assignee or transferee has the legal, technical, financial and other requisite
qualifications to own a permit pursuant to this chapter. Unless otherwise
provided in a permit, the permittee shall reimburse the village for all direct
and indirect fees, costs and expenses reasonably incurred by the village in
considering a request to transfer or assign a permit. Any transfer or
assignment of a permit without prior approval of the village or pursuant to a
permit shall be void and is cause for revocation of the permit.
(Ord. 6-97, passed 7-14-1997)
§ 1477.17 SEPARABILITY.
   If any section, division, sentence, clause, phrase or other portion of this
chapter, or its application to any person, is, for any reason, declared
invalid, in whole or in part, by any court or agency of competent jurisdiction,
said decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions hereof.
(Ord. 6-97, passed 7-14-1997)
§ 1477.99 PENALTY; EQUITABLE REMEDIES.
   (a)   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree for each offense. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a
violation or noncompliance occurs or continues.
   (b)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any judicial
remedies that the village may have, at law or in equity, for enforcement of
this chapter.
CHAPTER 1478: WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES
Section
1478.01   Purpose; intent.
1478.02   Application of chapter.
1478.03   Definitions.
1478.04   Permitted or conditional uses.
1478.05   General requirements.
1478.06   Permitted ancillary uses on structures.
1478.07   Nonresidential districts.
1478.08   Residential districts; exceptions.
1478.09   Criteria for a conditional use.
1478.10   Colocation requirements.
1478.11   Abandonment of towers.
1478.12   Variances and special exceptions.
1478.13   Enforcement.
1478.99   Penalty.
Cross-reference:
   Antennas, see §§
1274.06,
1274.07
   Cable television, see
Ch. 808 
   “Property” defined to include cable television service, see §
606.01(o)
   “Services” defined to include cable television service, see §
642.01(a), (r)
§ 1478.01 PURPOSE; INTENT.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the placement, construction and
modification of towers and wireless telecommunications facilities in order to
protect the health, safety and welfare of the public, while at the same time
not unreasonably interfering with the development of the competitive wireless
telecommunications marketplace in the village. Specifically, the purposes of
this chapter are to:
   (a)   Direct the location of towers and wireless telecommunications
facilities in the village;
   (b)   Protect residential areas and land uses from potential adverse impacts
of towers and wireless telecommunications facilities;
   (c)   Minimize adverse visual impacts of towers and wireless
telecommunications facilities through careful design, siting, landscaping and
innovative camouflaging techniques;
   (d)   Promote and encourage shared use/colocation of towers and antenna
support structures as a primary option rather than construction of additional
single-use towers;
   (e)   Avoid potential damage to adjacent properties caused by towers and
wireless telecommunications facilities by ensuring that such structures are
soundly and carefully designed, constructed, modified, maintained and removed;
   (f)   To the greatest extent feasible, ensure that towers and wireless
telecommunications facilities are compatible with surrounding land uses; and
   (g)   To the greatest extent feasible, ensure that proposed towers and
wireless telecommunications facilities are designed in harmony with natural
settings and in a manner consistent with current development patterns.
(Ord. 5-97, passed 7-14-1997)
§ 1478.02 APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   (a)   All towers, antenna support structures and wireless telecommunications
facilities, any portion of which are located within the village, are subject to
this chapter.
   (b)   Except as provided in this chapter, any use being made of an existing
tower or antenna support structure on the effective date of this chapter,
(hereinafter “nonconforming structures” shall be allowed to continue, even if
such use is in conflict with the terms of this chapter. Any tower site that has
received village approval in the form of either a special exception or building
permit, but has not yet been constructed or located, shall be considered a
nonconforming structure so long as such approval is current and not expired.
(Ord. 5-97, passed 7-14-1997)
§ 1478.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include the future tense, words in
the plural number include the singular number, and words in the singular number
include the plural number. All capitalized terms used in the definition of any
other term shall have their meaning as otherwise defined in this section. The
words “shall” and “will” are mandatory and “may” is permissive. Words not
defined shall be given their common and ordinary meaning.
   (a)   “Antenna support structure.” Any building or other structure other
than a tower which can be used for location of wireless telecommunications
facilities.
   (b)   “Applicant.” Any person that applies for a conditional use permit
pursuant to §
1478.09.
   (c)   “Application.” The process by which an applicant submits a request and
indicates a desire to be granted a conditional use permit under the provisions
of this chapter. An “application” includes all written documentation, verbal
statements and representations, in whatever form or forum, made by an applicant
to the village concerning such a request.
   (d)   “Code.” The codified ordinances of the village.
   (e)   “Colocation.” The use of a wireless telecommunications facility by
more than one wireless telecommunications provider.
   (f)   “Council.” The Village Council.
   (g)   “Emergency.” A reasonably unforeseen occurrence with a potential to
endanger personal safety or health, or cause substantial damage to property,
that calls for immediate action.
   (h)   “Engineer.” Any engineer license by the State of Ohio.
   (i)   “Equipment shelter.” The structure in which the electronic receiving
and relay equipment for a wireless telecommunications facility is housed.
   (j)   “FCC.” The Federal Communications Commission and any legally
appointed, designated or elected agent or successor.
   (k)   “Monopole.” A support structure constructed of a single, self-
supporting hollow metal tube securely anchored to a foundation.
   (l)   “Open space.” Land devoted to conservation or recreational purposes
and/or land designated by a municipality to remain undeveloped (may be
specified on a zoning map).
   (m)   “Person.” Any natural person, firm, partnership, association,
corporation, company or other legal entity, private or public, whether for
profit or not for profit.
   (n)   “Tower.” A self-supporting lattice, guyed or monopole structure
constructed from grade which supports wireless telecommunications facilities.
The term “tower” shall not include amateur radio operators’ equipment, as
licensed by the FCC.
   (o)   “Viewshed.” The area surrounding a wireless telecommunications
facility or antenna support structure, within which the facility or structure
is visible from street level.
   (p)   “Village.” The Village of Minerva Park, a municipal corporation, in
the State of Ohio, acting by and through its Village Council.
   (q)   “Wireless telecommunications facilities.” Any cables, wires, lines,
wave guides, antennas and any other equipment or facilities associated with the
transmission or reception of communications as authorized by the FCC which a
person seeks to locate or has installed upon a tower or antenna support
structure. However, the term shall not include:
      (1)   Any satellite earth station antenna two meters or less in diameter,
which is located in an area zoned industrial or commercial;
      (2)   Any satellite earth station antenna one meter or less in diameter,
regardless of zoning category; or
      (3)   Antennas used by amateur radio operators.
(Ord. 5-97, passed 7-14-1997)
§ 1478.04 PERMITTED OR CONDITIONAL USES.
   Wireless telecommunications facilities are either permitted uses or
conditional uses in a variety of zoning districts, contingent upon a number of
requirements being met. These criteria are in place in an attempt to minimize
adverse health, safety, public welfare or visual impacts through buffering,
siting, design and construction and reduction in the need for new towers.
(Ord. 5-97, passed 7-14-1997)
§ 1478.05 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The following requirements apply to all wireless telecommunications
facilities regardless of the zoning district in which they are to be located.
These general standards are to be supplemented with the specific regulations
for nonresidential and residential districts as set forth in §§
1478.07 and
1478.08.
   (a)   When the proposed wireless telecommunications facility or antenna
support structure is to include a new tower, a plot plan at a scale of not less
than one inch equals 100 feet shall be submitted. This plot plan shall indicate
all building uses within 200 feet of the proposed facility. Aerial photos and/
or renderings may augment the plot plan.
   (b)   A diagram or map showing the viewshed of the proposed wireless
telecommunications facilities or antenna support structure shall be provided.
   (c)   Photosimulations of the proposed facility from affected residential
properties and public rights- of-way at varying distances shall be provided.
   (d)   The location of the tower and equipment shelter and antenna support
structure shall comply with all natural resource protection standards
established in the Zoning Code, including those for floodplains, wetlands and
steep slopes.
   (e)   Security fencing eight feet in height shall surround the tower,
equipment shelter and any guy wires, either completely or individually, as
determined by the Planning and Zoning Commission. No barbed or razor wire shall
be permitted in residential neighborhoods. The village and colocators shall
have reasonable access. No fence shall be required on top of a building or
other structure if access to the roof or top of the structure or building is
secure.
   (f)   Buffer plantings may be located around the perimeter of the security
fence as deemed appropriate by the Planning and Zoning Commission. Options are
an evergreen screen to be planted that consists of either a hedge, planted
three feet on center maximum, or a row of evergreen trees planted five feet on
center maximum, or other screens determined to be appropriate by the Planning
and Zoning Commission.
   (g)   Existing vegetation (trees and shrubs) shall be preserved to the
maximum extent possible.
   (h)   Compliance with colocation requirements is required.
   (i)   Any application to locate a wireless telecommunications facility on a
building or structure that is listed on a historic register, or is in a
historic district, shall be subject to review by the village’s Planning and
Zoning Commission.
   (j)   The tower shall be painted a non-contrasting gray or similar color
minimizing its visibility, unless otherwise required by the Federal
Communications Commission (FCC) or the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA).
Except for tower or monopole structures, all appurtenances shall be
aesthetically and architecturally compatible with the surrounding environment.
   (k)   No advertising is permitted anywhere on the wireless
telecommunications facility, with the exception of identification signage.
   (l)   No tower under 150 feet shall be artificially lighted except to ensure
safety or as required by the FAA.
   (m)   “No Trespassing” signs shall be posted around the wireless
telecommunications facility with a telephone number of who to contact in the
event of an emergency.
   (n)   Underground equipment shelters are encouraged in residential districts
and may be requested by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (o)   Towers must be designed and certified by an engineer to be
structurally sound and, at a minimum, in compliance with the Ohio Basic
Building Code.
(Ord. 5-97, passed 7-14-1997)
§ 1478.06 PERMITTED ANCILLARY USES ON STRUCTURES.
   Any wireless telecommunications facilities which are not attached to a tower
shall be a permitted ancillary use to any commercial, industrial, professional,
institutional or multi-family structure, regardless of the zoning restrictions
applicable to the zoning district where the structure is located and without
having to obtain any prior authorization from the village, provided that the
person making such ancillary use files a written certification with the village
establishing the following:
   (a)   The total height of the antenna support structure and wireless
telecommunications facilities do not exceed the structural height limitations
of the FAA in the applicable zoning district under §
1274.07;
   (b)   The antenna support structure and wireless telecommunications
facilities comply with the Ohio Basic Building Code;
   (c)   Any wireless telecommunications facilities and their appurtenances,
located on the roof of a building, are set back one foot from the edge of the
roof, not including the penthouse, for each one foot in height of the wireless
telecommunications facilities. However, this setback requirement shall not
apply to antennas less than two inches in thickness, which are mounted to the
sides of antenna support structures, but which do not protrude more than six
inches from the side of such an antenna support structure. This requirement is
subject to change by the Planning and Zoning Commission upon review of the
photosimulation provided in compliance with §
1478.05(b); and
   (d)   The wireless telecommunications facilities will utilize camouflaging
techniques or will be side- mounted to an antenna support structure in order
that the wireless telecommunications facilities harmonize with the character
and environment of the area in which they are located.
(Ord. 5-97, passed 7-14-1997)
§ 1478.07 NONRESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   Wireless telecommunications facilities proposed for industrial, commercial
and institutional districts are subject to the following conditions.
   (a)   Sole Use on a Lot. A wireless telecommunications facility is permitted
as a sole use on a lot subject to the following.
      (1)   Minimum Lot Size. The minimum lot size for industrial, commercial
and institutional districts shall be 10,000 square feet.
      (2)   Minimum Yard Requirements. Minimum yard requirements shall be as
follows.
         A.   Tower. The minimum distance to any single-family or two-family
residential use or district lot line shall be 200 feet.
         B.   Equipment Shelter. The minimum setback shall be 30 feet between
the established building line and the street right-of-way. Side yards must be
18 feet or more, with a minimum of eight feet on one side, rear yards shall be
25% or more of the lot depth, except that a rear yard of more than 50 feet
shall not be required.
      (3)   Maximum Height. The maximum height of a tower or an equipment
shelter shall be as follows:
         A.   Tower: 200 feet (includes antenna); and
         B.   Equipment shelter: equipment shelters shall be not more than 35
feet in height.
      (4)   Maximum Size of Equipment Shelter. The maximum size of an equipment
shelter shall be 400 square feet for a single shelter or, if there is more than
one, 800 square feet.
   b.   Combined with Another Use. A wireless telecommunications facility is
permitted on a property with an existing use, subject to the following
conditions.
      (1)   Existing or Future Use on the Property. The existing or future use
on the property may be any permitted use in the district or any lawful
nonconforming use and need not be affiliated with the wireless
telecommunications provider. The wireless telecommunications facility will not
be considered an addition to the structure or the value of a nonconforming use.
      (2)   Fully-Automated Facility. The wireless telecommunications facility
shall be fully automated and unattended on a daily basis and shall be visited
only for periodic and necessary maintenance (except during construction or an
emergency).
      (3)   Minimum Lot Area. The minimum lot area shall be the area needed to
accommodate the tower (and guy wires, if used), the equipment shelter, security
fencing and buffer planting.
      (4)   Minimum Yard Requirements. Minimum yard requirements shall be as
follows.
         A.   Tower. The minimum distance to any single-family or two-family
residential use or district lot line shall be 200 feet.
         B.   Equipment Shelter. Equipment shelters shall comply with the
minimum setback requirements for the primary lot.
      (5)   Service Access. Service access to the equipment shelter shall,
whenever feasible, be provided along the circulation driveways of the existing
use.
      (6)   Maximum Height. The maximum height of a tower or equipment shelter
shall be as follows:
         A.   Tower: 200 feet (includes antenna); and
         B.   Equipment shelter: the maximum building height in industrial,
commercial and institutional districts shall be 35 feet.
      (7)   Maximum Size of Equipment Shelter. The maximum size of an equipment
shelter shall be 400 square feet for a single shelter or, if there is more than
one, 800 square feet.
   (c)   Combined with an Existing Structure. Where possible, an antenna for a
wireless telecommunications facility shall be attached to an existing structure
or building, subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   Maximum Height. The maximum height of an antenna shall be 20 feet,
or 20% of the building height above the existing building or structure,
whichever is greater.
      (2)   Separate Shelters. If the applicant proposes to locate the
telecommunications equipment in a separate shelter (not located on, or attached
to, the building), the shelter shall comply with the following.
         A.   The shelter shall comply with the minimum setback requirements
for the subject zoning district.
         B.   A buffer yard may be planted in accordance with §
1478.05(f).
         C.   Vehicular access to the shelter shall not interfere with parking
or vehicular circulation on the site for the principal use.
         D.   The maximum size of the equipment shelter shall be 400 square
feet or, if there is more than one, 800 square feet.
(Ord. 5-97, passed 7-14-1997)
§ 1478.08 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS; EXCEPTIONS.
   Wireless telecommunications facilities that include towers are not permitted
in single-family or two- family residential districts, with the exception of
the placement on any property with an institutional use (e.g., a church, park,
library, municipal/governmental building, facility or structure, hospital,
school or utility) located in either of these two districts. However, antennas
attached to existing buildings or structures are permitted. In applying for a
permit in any residential district, the applicant must present sufficient
evidence as to why it is not technically feasible to locate such facilities in
a more appropriate nonresidential zone. Once those efforts have been exhausted,
a wireless telecommunications facility may be located in a residential district
subject to the following conditions.
   (a)   Fully Automated Facility Required. The wireless telecommunications
facility shall be fully automated and unattended on a daily basis and shall be
visited only for periodic and necessary maintenance. This provision shall also
apply to divisions (b), (c), (d) and (e) hereof.
   (b)   Combined with a Nonresidential Use. An antenna may be attached to a
nonresidential building, or to a structure that is a permitted use in the
district, including, but not limited to, a church, a municipal or governmental
building or facility, an agricultural building and a building or structure
owned by a utility. The following conditions shall be met.
      (1)   The maximum height of an antenna shall be 20 feet above the
existing building or structure.
      (2)   If the applicant proposes to locate the telecommunications
equipment in a separate equipment shelter, the shelter shall comply with the
following.
         A.   The shelter shall comply with the minimum setback requirements
for the subject zoning district.
         B.   The maximum size of the equipment shelter shall be 400 square
feet or, if there is more than one, 800 square feet.
         C.   A buffer yard shall be planted in accordance with §
1478.05(f).
         D.   Vehicular access to the shelter shall not interfere with parking
or vehicular circulation on the site for the principal use.
   (c)   Located on a Nonresidential Property. A tower to support an antenna
may be constructed on a property with a nonresidential use that is a permitted
use within the district, including, but not limited to, a church, hospital,
school, municipal or governmental building, facility or structure, an
agricultural use and a utility use, subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   The tower shall be set back from any property line abutting a
single-family or two-family residential lot by 200 feet.
      (2)   The maximum height of a tower or equipment shelter shall be as
follows:
         A.   Tower: 200 feet (includes antenna); and
         B.   Equipment shelter: the equipment shelter shall be not more than
35 feet in height.
      (3)   The maximum size of the equipment shelter shall be 400 square feet
or, if there is more than one, 800 square feet.
      (4)   Vehicular access to the tower and equipment shelter shall, whenever
feasible, be provided along the circulation driveways of the existing use.
      (5)   In order to locate a telecommunications facility on a property that
is vacant or with an agricultural use, the tract shall be at least two and one-
half acres in size, or as otherwise determined by the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
   (d)   Located on a Residential Building. An antenna for a wireless
telecommunications facility may be attached to a mid-rise or high-rise
apartment building subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   The maximum height shall be 20 feet above the existing building.
      (2)   If the applicant proposes to locate the telecommunications
equipment in a separate equipment shelter (not located in, or attached to, the
building), the shelter shall comply with the following.
         A.   The shelter shall comply with the maximum setback requirements
for the subject zoning district.
         B.   The maximum size of the equipment shelter shall be 400 square
feet or, if there is more than one, 800 square feet.
         C.   A buffer yard shall be planted in accordance with §
1478.05(f).
         D.   Vehicular access to the shelter shall, if at all possible, use
the existing circulation system.
   (e)   Located in an Open Space or Park. A wireless telecommunications
facility is permitted on land that has been established as permanent open space
or a park, subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   Ownership. The open space shall be owned by the municipality, the
county, the state, a homeowners association, a charitable organization or a
private, nonprofit conservation organization.
      (2)   Maximum Height. The maximum height of a tower or equipment shelter
shall be as follows:
         A.   Tower: 200 feet (includes antenna); and
         B.   Equipment shelter: the equipment shelter must comply with the
maximum building height requirements for the district in which it is located.
      (3)   Maximum Size of Equipment Shelter. The maximum size of the
equipment shelter shall be 400 square feet for a single shelter or, if there is
more than one, 800 square feet.
      (4)   Tower Setback. The tower shall be set back from any single-family
or two-family property line 200 feet.
(Ord. 5-97, passed 7-14-1997)
§ 1478.09 CRITERIA FOR A CONDITIONAL USE.
   (a)   A wireless telecommunications facility, which includes a tower, may be
permitted as a conditional use in a residential or commercial district. In
order to be considered for review, the applicant must prove that a newly-
constructed tower is necessary because colocation on an existing tower is not
feasible in accordance with §
1478.10. The following steps must also be taken for the application to be
considered for review in this category.
      (1)   The applicant shall demonstrate that the telecommunications tower
must be located where it is proposed to order to service the applicant’s
service area. There shall be an explanation of why a tower and this proposed
site are technically necessary.
      (2)   Where the wireless telecommunications facility is located on a
property with another principal use, the applicant shall present documentation
that the owner of the property supports the application and that vehicular
access is provided to the facility.
      (3)   The applicant shall present a site/landscaping plan showing the
specific placement of the wireless telecommunications facilities on the site;
showing the location of existing structures, trees and other significant site
features; and indicating the types and locations of plant materials used to
screen the facilities and the proposed color of the facilities.
      (4)   The applicant shall present a signed statement indicating:
         A.   The applicant agrees to allow for the potential colocation of
additional wireless telecommunications facilities by other providers on the
applicant’s structure or within the same site location; and
         B.   The applicant agrees to remove the facility within 180 days after
the site’s use is discontinued.
   (b)   A conditional use permit must be approved by the Planning and Zoning
Commission and/or the Council, with a subsequent building permit issued by the
Building Commissioner for construction of new towers in nonindustrial
districts. Colocation of antennas on a single tower, antennas attached to
existing structures or buildings, towers located in industrial districts, or
replacement towers to be constructed at the site of a current tower, are
permitted uses and will not be subject to the conditional use permitting
process.
   (c)   Any decision to deny a request to place, construct or modify a
wireless telecommunications facility and/or tower shall be in writing and
supported by evidence contained in a written record of the proceedings of the
Planning and Zoning Commission.
(Ord. 5-97, passed 7-14-1997)
§ 1478.10 COLOCATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   (1)   In order to encourage the location of wireless
telecommunications facilities on publicly- owned property, the village shall
undertake an identification of publicly-owned properties that the village
determines are suitable for such use. The village shall regularly update such
identification and make the results of such identification available to the
public.
      (2)   Persons locating wireless telecommunications facilities upon such
identified publicly-owned properties shall be exempt from the requirements
herein regarding presentation of proof that colocation of facilities on towers
or structures owned by other persons or in other locations is not available.
However, persons locating wireless telecommunications facilities on publicly-
owned properties shall continue to be subject to the requirements contained in
division (b) hereof.
      (3)   In addition, persons locating wireless telecommunications
facilities on publicly-owned properties identified by the village to be
suitable for such purposes shall be exempt from the requirement of §§
1478.05(a) to (c) and
1478.09(a)(2) to (a)(4).
   (b)   No new tower shall be constructed in the village unless such tower is
capable of accommodating at least one additional wireless telecommunications
facility owned by other persons.
   (c)   A conditional use permit shall be issued only if there is not a
technically suitable space reasonably available on an existing tower or
structure within the geographic area to be served. With the permit application,
the applicant shall list the location of every tower, building or structure
within such area that could support the proposed antenna. The applicant must
demonstrate that a technically suitable location is not reasonably available on
an existing tower, building or structure. If another communications tower is
technically suitable, the applicant must show that it has offered to allow the
owner to colocate an antenna on another tower within the village owned by the
applicant on reciprocal terms and that the offer was not accepted, or the other
tower is presumed to be reasonably available.
(Ord. 5-97, passed 7-14-1997)
§ 1478.11 ABANDONMENT OF TOWERS.
   (a)   All providers utilizing towers shall present a report to the Mayor
notifying the Mayor of any tower facility located in the municipality whose use
will be discontinued and the date that use will cease. If, at any time, the use
of a facility is discontinued for 180 days, a designated local official may
declare the facility abandoned. (This excludes any dormancy period between
construction and the initial use of the facility.) The facility’s owner/
operator will receive written notice from the Building Commissioner and shall
be instructed to either reactivate the facility’s use within 180 days, or
dismantle and remove the facility. If reactivation or dismantling does not
occur, the municipality will remove or will contract to have removed the
facility and assess the owner/operator the costs.
   (b)   The village must provide the tower owner with three months’ notice and
an opportunity to be heard before the Planning and Zoning Commission prior to
initiating such action. After such notice has been provided, the village shall
have the authority to initiate proceedings to either acquire the tower and any
appurtenances attached thereto at the then fair market value, or in the
alternative, order the demolition of the tower and all appurtenances thereto.
   (c)   The village shall provide the tower owner with the right to a public
hearing before the Planning and Zoning Commission, which public hearing shall
follow the three-month notice required in division (b) hereof. All interested
parties shall be allowed an opportunity to be heard at the public hearing.
   (d)   After a public hearing is held pursuant to division (c) hereof, the
Planning and Zoning Commission may order the acquisition or demolition of the
tower. The village may require the licensee to pay for all expenses necessary
to acquire or demolish the tower.
(Ord. 5-97, passed 7-14-1997)
§ 1478.12 VARIANCES AND SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS.
   Any request to deviate from any of the requirements of this chapter shall
require variance approval in compliance with the procedures set forth in §
1212.05 of the Planning and Zoning Code.
(Ord. 5-97, passed 7-14-1997)
§ 1478.13 ENFORCEMENT.
   Nothing in this chapter shall preclude the village from exercising any right
or remedy it may have in law or equity to enforce the terms and conditions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 5-97, passed 7-14-1997)
§ 1478.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree for each offense. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a
violation or noncompliance occurs or continues.
TITLE EIGHT: HOUSING
CHAPTER 1480: HOUSING AND PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
Section
1480.01   General.
1480.02   Applicability.
1480.03   Administration and enforcement.
1480.04   Violations.
1480.05   Notices and orders.
1480.06   Unsafe structures and equipment.
1480.07   Emergency measures.
1480.08   Demolition.
1480.09   Means of appeal.
1480.10   Stop work order.
1480.11   Definitions.
1480.12   Exterior property areas.
1480.13   Exterior structure.
1480.14   Interior structure.
1480.15   Component serviceability.
1480.16   Handrails and guardrails.
1480.17   Rubbish and garbage.
1480.18   Pest elimination.
1480.19   Light, ventilation and space conditions.
1480.20   Plumbing.
1480.21   Mechanical and electrical facilities and equipment.
1480.22   Fire safety.
1480.23   Boarding standards.
1480.99   Prosecution of violations and penalties.
§ 1480.01 GENERAL.
   (a)   Title. These regulations shall be known as the Housing and Property
Maintenance Code of the Village of Minerva Park, hereinafter referred to as
“this code.”
   (b)   Scope. The provisions of this code shall apply to all existing
residential and nonresidential structures and all existing premises and
constitute minimum requirements and standards for premises, structures,
equipment and facilities for light, ventilation, space, heating, sanitation,
protection from the elements, life safety, safety from fire and other hazards,
and for safe and sanitary maintenance; the responsibility of owners, operators
and occupants; the occupancy of existing structures and premises, and for
administration, enforcement and penalties.
   (c)   Intent. This code shall be construed to secure its expressed intent,
which is to ensure public health, safety and welfare insofar as they are
affected by the continued occupancy and maintenance of structures and premises.
Existing structures and premises that do not comply with these provisions shall
be altered or repaired to provide a minimum level of health and safety as
required herein.
   (d)   Severability. If a section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of
this code is, for any reason, held to be unconstitutional, such decision shall
not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this code.
(Ord. 33-2017, passed 12-11-2017)
§ 1480.02 APPLICABILITY.
   (a)   General. Where there is a conflict between a general requirement and a
specific requirement, the specific requirement shall govern. Where differences
occur between provisions of this code and the referenced standards, the
provisions of this code shall apply. Where, in a specific case, different
sections of this code specify different requirements, the most restrictive
shall govern.
   (b)   Maintenance. Equipment, systems, devices and safeguards required by
this code or a previous regulation or code under which the structure or
premises was constructed, altered or repaired shall be maintained in good
working order. No owner, operator or occupant shall cause any service,
facility, equipment or utility which is required under this section to be
removed from or shut off from or discontinued for any occupied dwelling, except
for such temporary interruption as necessary while repairs or alterations are
in progress. The requirements of this code are not intended to provide the
basis for removal or abrogation of fire protection and safety systems and
devices in existing structures. Except as otherwise specified herein, the owner
or the owner’s designated agent shall be responsible for the maintenance of
buildings, structures and premises.
   (c)   Application of Other Codes. Repairs, additions or alterations to a
structure, or changes of occupancy, shall be done in accordance with the
procedures and provisions of all other codes adopted by the village.
   (d)   Existing Remedies. The provisions in this code shall not be construed
to abolish or impair existing remedies of the jurisdiction or its officers or
agencies relating to the removal or demolition of any structure which is
dangerous, unsafe and insanitary.
   (e)   Workmanship. Repairs, maintenance work, alterations or installations
which are caused directly or indirectly by the enforcement of this code shall
be executed and installed in a workmanlike manner and installed in accordance
with the manufacturer’s installation instructions.
   (f)   Historic Buildings. The provisions of this code shall not be mandatory
for existing buildings or structures designated as historic buildings when such
buildings or structures are judged by the Code Enforcement Officer to be safe
and in the public interest of health, safety and welfare.
   (g)   Requirements Not Covered by Code. Requirements necessary for the
strength, stability or proper operation of an existing fixture, structure or
equipment, or for the public safety, health and general welfare, not
specifically covered by this code, shall be determined by the Code Enforcement
Officer.
   (h)   Application of References. References to chapter or section numbers,
or to provisions not specifically identified by number, shall be construed to
refer to such chapter, section or provision of this code.
   (i)   Other Laws. The provisions of this code shall not be deemed to nullify
any provisions of local, state or federal law. In the event of a conflict, the
stricter law shall apply.
(Ord. 33-2017, passed 12-11-2017)
§ 1480.03 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (a)   General. The Code Enforcement Officer shall oversee the Housing and
Property Maintenance Code.
   (b)   Code Enforcement Officer. The Code Enforcement Officer shall be
appointed by the Mayor/Administrator.
   (c)   Duties and Powers of the Code Enforcement Officer.
      (1)   General. The Code Enforcement Officer is hereby authorized and
directed to enforce the provisions of this code. The Code Enforcement Officer
shall have the authority to render interpretations of this code and to adopt
policies and procedures in order to clarify the application of its provisions.
Such interpretations, policies and procedures shall be in compliance with the
intent and purpose of this code. Such policies and procedures shall not have
the effect of waiving requirements specifically provided for in this code.
      (2)   Inspections. The Code Enforcement Officer shall make all of the
required inspections, or shall accept reports of inspection by approved
agencies or individuals. All reports of such inspections shall be in writing
and be certified by a responsible officer of such approved agency or by the
responsible individual. The Code Enforcement Officer is authorized to engage
such expert opinion as deemed necessary to report upon unusual technical issues
that arise, subject to the approval of the appointing authority.
      (3)   Identification. The Code Enforcement Officer shall carry proper
identification when inspecting structures or premises in the performance of
duties under this code.
      (4)   Notices and Orders. The Code Enforcement Officer shall issue all
necessary notices or orders to ensure compliance with this code.
      (5)   Department Records. The Code Enforcement Officer shall keep
official records of all business and activities of the department specified in
the provisions of this code. Such records shall be retained in the official
records for the period required for retention of public records.
      (6)   Modifications. Whenever there are practical difficulties involved
in carrying out the provisions of this code, the Code Enforcement Officer shall
have the authority to grant modifications for individual cases upon application
of the owner or owner’s representative, provided the Code Enforcement Officer
shall first find that special individual reason makes the strict letter of this
code impractical and the modification is in compliance with the intent and
purpose of this code and that such modification does not lessen health, life
and fire safety requirements. The details of action granting modifications
shall be recorded and entered in the department files.
   (d)   Alternative Materials, Methods and Equipment. The provisions of this
code are not intended to prevent the installation of any material or to
prohibit any method of construction not specifically prescribed by this code,
provided that any such alternative has been approved. An alternative material
or method of construction shall be approved where the Code Enforcement Officer
finds that the proposed design is satisfactory and complies with the intent of
the provisions of this code, and that the material, method or work offered is,
for the purpose intended, at least the equivalent of that prescribed in this
code in quality, strength, effectiveness, fire resistance, durability and
safety.
      (1)   Required Testing. Whenever there is insufficient evidence of
compliance with the provisions of this code, or evidence that a material or
method does not conform to the requirements of this code, or in order to
substantiate claims for alternative materials or methods, the Code Enforcement
Officer shall have the authority to require tests to be made as evidence of
compliance at no expense to the jurisdiction.
      (2)   Test Methods. Test methods shall be as specified in this code or by
other recognized test standards. In the absence of recognized and accepted test
methods, the Code Enforcement Officer shall be permitted to approve appropriate
testing procedures performed by an approved agency.
      (3)   Test Reports. Reports of tests shall be retained by the Code
Enforcement Officer for the period required for retention of public records.
      (4)   Used Material and Equipment. The use of used materials which meet
the requirements of this code for new materials is permitted. Materials,
equipment and devices shall not be reused unless such elements are in good
repair or have been reconditioned and tested when necessary, placed in good and
proper working condition and approved by the Code Enforcement Officer.
      (5)   Approved Materials and Equipment. Materials, equipment and devices
approved by the Code Enforcement Officer shall be constructed and installed in
accordance with such approval.
      (6)   Research Reports. Supporting data, where necessary to assist in the
approval of materials or assemblies not specifically provided for in this code,
shall consist of valid research reports from approved sources.
(Ord. 33-2017, passed 12-11-2017)
§ 1480.04 VIOLATIONS.
   (a)   Unlawful Acts. It shall be unlawful for a person, firm or corporation
to be in conflict with or in violation of any of the provisions of this code.
   (b)   Notice of Violation. The Code Enforcement Officer shall serve a notice
of violation or order in accordance with §
1480.05 .
   (c)   Prosecution of Violation. Any person failing to comply with a notice
of violation or order served in accordance with §
1480.05  shall be prosecuted in accordance with §
1480.99 .
(Ord. 33-2017, passed 12-11-2017)
§ 1480.05 NOTICES AND ORDERS.
   (a)   Notice to Person Responsible. Whenever the Code Enforcement Officer
determines that there has been a violation of this code or has grounds to
believe that a violation has occurred, notice shall be given in the manner
prescribed in divisions (b) and (c) below to the person responsible for the
violation as specified in this code. Notices for condemnation procedures shall
also comply with §
1480.06 (i).
   (b)   Form. Such notice prescribed in division (a) shall be in accordance
with all of the following:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a description of the real estate sufficient for
identification;
      (3)   Include a statement of the violation or violations and why the
notice is being issued;
      (4)   Include a correction order allowing a reasonable time to make the
repairs and improvements required to bring the dwelling unit or structure into
compliance with the provisions of this code;
      (5)   Inform the property owner of the right to appeal as set forth in §
1480.09;
      (6)   Include a statement of the right to file a lien; and
      (7)   Inform the person responsible that if another violation of the same
or similar nature of any provisions of this code is committed within a year of
the date of the original notice, the village will proceed with the prosecution
of said violation without further notification.
   (c)   Method of Service. Such notice shall be deemed to be properly served
if a copy thereof is:
      (1)   Delivered personally;
      (2)   Sent by certified or first-class mail addressed to the last known
address; or
      (3)   If the notice is returned showing that the letter was not
delivered, a copy thereof shall be posted in a conspicuous place in or about
the structure affected by such notice.
   (d)   Unauthorized Tampering. Signs, tags or seals posted or affixed by the
Code Enforcement Officer shall not be mutilated, destroyed or tampered with, or
removed without authorization from the Code Enforcement Officer.
   (e)   Penalties. Penalties for noncompliance with orders and notices shall
be as set forth in §
1480.99 .
   (f)   Transfer of Ownership. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any
dwelling unit or structure who has received a compliance order or upon whom a
notice of violation has been served to sell, transfer, mortgage, lease or
otherwise dispose of such dwelling unit or structure to another until the
provisions of the compliance order or notice of violation have been complied
with, or until such owner shall first furnish the grantee, transferee,
mortgagee or lessee a true copy of any compliance order or notice of violation
issued by the Code Enforcement Officer and shall furnish to the Code
Enforcement Officer a signed and notarized statement from the grantee,
transferee, mortgagee or lessee, acknowledging the receipt of such compliance
order or notice of violation and fully accepting the responsibility without
condition for making the corrections or repairs required by such compliance
order or notice of violation.
(Ord. 33-2017, passed 12-11-2017)
§ 1480.06 UNSAFE STRUCTURES AND EQUIPMENT.
   (a)   General. When a structure or equipment is found by the Code
Enforcement Officer to be unsafe, or when a structure is found unfit for human
occupancy, or is found unlawful, such structure shall be condemned pursuant to
the provisions of this code.
   (b)   Unsafe Structures. An unsafe structure is one that is found to be
dangerous to the life, health, property or safety of the public or the
occupants of the structure by not providing minimum safeguards to protect or
warn occupants in the event of fire, or because such structure contains unsafe
equipment or is so damaged, decayed, dilapidated, structurally unsafe or of
such faulty construction or unstable foundation, that partial or complete
collapse is possible.
   (c)   Unsafe Equipment. Unsafe equipment includes any boiler, heating
equipment, elevator, moving stairway, electrical wiring or device, flammable
liquid containers or other equipment on the premises or within the structure
which is in such disrepair or condition that such equipment is a hazard to
life, health, property or safety of the public or occupants of the premises or
structure.
   (d)   Structure Unfit for Human Occupancy. A structure is unfit for human
occupancy whenever the Code Enforcement Officer finds that such structure is
unsafe, unlawful or, because of the degree to which the structure is in
disrepair or lacks maintenance, is insanitary, vermin or rat infested, contains
filth and contamination, or lacks ventilation, illumination, sanitary or
heating facilities or other essential equipment required by this code, or
because the location of the structure constitutes a hazard to the occupants of
the structure or to the public.
   (e)   Unlawful Structure. An unlawful structure is one found in whole or in
part to be occupied by more persons than permitted under this code, or was
erected, altered or occupied contrary to law.
   (f)   Dangerous Structure or Premises. For the purpose of this code, any
structure or premises that has any or all of the conditions or defects
described below shall be considered dangerous:
      (1)   Any door, aisle, passageway, stairway, exit or other means of
egress that does not conform to the approved Building or Fire Code of the
jurisdiction as related to the requirements for existing buildings;
      (2)   The walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway, exit or
other means of egress is so warped, worn loose, torn or otherwise unsafe as to
not provide safe and adequate means of egress;
      (3)   Any portion of a building, structure or appurtenance that has been
damaged by fire, earthquake, wind, flood, deterioration, neglect, abandonment,
vandalism or by any other cause to such an extent that it is likely to
partially or completely collapse, or to become detached or is lodged;
      (4)   Any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance or
ornamentation on the exterior thereof that is not of sufficient strength or
stability, or is not so anchored, attached or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting natural or artificial loads of one and one-half the
original designed value;
      (5)   The building or structure, or part of the building or structure,
because of dilapidation, deterioration, decay, faulty construction, the removal
or movement of some portion of the ground necessary for the support, or for any
other reason, is likely to partially or completely collapse, or some portion of
the foundation or underpinning of the building or structure is likely to fail
or give way;
      (6)   The building or structure, or any portion thereof, is clearly
unsafe for its use and occupancy;
      (7)   The building or structure is neglected, damaged, dilapidated,
unsecured or abandoned so as to become an attractive nuisance to children who
might play in the building or structure to their danger, becomes a harbor for
vagrants, criminals or immoral persons, or enables persons to resort to the
building or structure for committing a nuisance or an unlawful act;
      (8)   Any building or structure has been constructed, exists or is
maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition applicable
to such building or structure provided by the approved Building or Fire Code of
the jurisdiction, or of any law or ordinance to such an extent as to present
either a substantial risk of fire, building collapse or any other threat to
life and safety;
      (9)   A building or structure, used or intended to be used for dwelling
purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay, damage,
faulty construction or arrangement, inadequate light, ventilation, mechanical
or plumbing system, or otherwise, is determined by the Code Enforcement Officer
to be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation or in such a condition that is
likely to cause sickness or disease;
      (10)   Any building or structure, because of a lack of sufficient or
proper fire- resistance-rated construction, fire protection systems, electrical
system, fuel connections, mechanical system, plumbing system or other cause, is
determined by the Code Enforcement Officer to be a threat to life or health; or
      (11)   Any portion of a building remains on a site after the demolition
or destruction of the building or structure or whenever any building or
structure is abandoned so as to constitute such building or portion thereof as
an attractive nuisance or hazard to the public.
   (g)   Closing of Vacant Structures. If the structure is vacant and unfit for
human habitation and occupancy, and is not in danger of structural collapse,
the Code Enforcement Officer is authorized to post a placard of condemnation on
the premises and order the structure closed up so as not to be an attractive
nuisance. Upon failure of the owner to close up the premises within the time
specified in the order, the Code Enforcement Officer shall cause the premises
to be closed and secured through any available public agency or by contract or
arrangement by private persons and the cost thereof shall be charged against
the real estate upon which the structure is located and shall be a lien upon
such real estate and may be collected by any other legal resource.
   (h)   Authority to Disconnect Service Utilities. The Code Enforcement
Officer shall have the authority to authorize disconnection of utility service
to the building, structure or system regulated by this code and the other
adopted codes of the village in case of emergency where necessary to eliminate
an immediate hazard to life or property or when such utility connection has
been made without approval. The Code Enforcement Officer shall notify the
serving utility and, whenever possible, the owner and occupant of the building,
structure or service system of the decision to disconnect prior to taking such
action. If not notified prior to disconnection the owner or occupant of the
building structure or service system shall be notified in writing as soon as
practical thereafter.
   (i)   Notice. Whenever the Code Enforcement Officer has condemned a
structure or equipment under the provisions of this section, notice shall be
posted in a conspicuous place in or about the structure affected by such notice
and served on the owner or the person or persons responsible for the structure
or equipment in accordance with §
1480.05 (c). If the notice pertains to equipment, it shall also be placed on
the condemned equipment. The notice shall be in the form prescribed in §
1480.05 (b).
   (j)   Placarding. Upon failure of the owner or person responsible to comply
with the notice provisions within the time given, the Code Enforcement Officer
shall post on the premises or on defective equipment a placard bearing the word
“condemned” and a statement of the penalties provided for occupying the
premises, operating the equipment or removing the placard.
   (k)   Placard Removal. The Code Enforcement Officer shall remove the
condemnation placard whenever the defect or defects upon which the condemnation
and placarding action were based have been eliminated. Any person who defaces
or removes a condemnation placard without the approval of the Code Enforcement
Officer shall be subject to the penalties provided by this code.
   (l)   Prohibited Occupancy. Any occupied structure condemned and placarded
by the Code Enforcement Officer shall be vacated as ordered by the Code
Enforcement Officer. Any person who shall occupy a placarded premises or shall
operate placarded equipment, and any owner or any person responsible for the
premises who shall let anyone occupy a placarded premises or operate placarded
equipment shall be liable for the penalties provided by this code.
   (m)   Abatement Methods. The owner, operator or occupant of a building,
premises or equipment deemed unsafe by the Code Enforcement Officer shall abate
or cause to be abated or corrected such unsafe conditions either by repair,
rehabilitation, demolition or other approved corrective action.
   (n)   Record. The Code Enforcement Officer shall cause a report to be filed
on an unsafe condition. The report shall state the occupancy of the structure
and the nature of the unsafe condition.
   (o)   Permit Required Prior to Repair or Rehabilitation. Prior to repairing
or rehabilitating a building, premises, or equipment deemed unsafe by the Code
Enforcement Officer, the owner, operator, or occupant of the building, premises
or equipment shall apply for a condemnation reversal permit and pay a fee as
adopted by Council. The condemnation reversal permit does not take the place of
other permits required by the Zoning Administrator, Chief Building Official or
other outside agencies.
(Ord. 33-2017, passed 12-11-2017)
§ 1480.07 EMERGENCY MEASURES.
   (a)   Imminent Danger. When, in the opinion of the Code Enforcement Officer,
there is imminent danger of failure or collapse of a building or structure
which endangers life, or when any structure or part of a structure has fallen
and life is endangered by the occupation of the structure, or when there is
actual or potential danger to the building occupants or those in the proximity
of any structure because of explosives, explosive fumes or vapors or the
presence of toxic fumes, gases or materials, or operation of defective or
dangerous equipment, the Code Enforcement Officer is hereby authorized and
empowered to order and require the occupants to vacate the premises forthwith.
The Code Enforcement Officer shall cause to be posted at each entrance to such
structure a notice reading as follows: “This Structure Is Unsafe and Its
Occupancy Has Been Prohibited by the Code Enforcement Officer.” It shall be
unlawful for any person to enter such structure except for the purpose of
securing the structure, making the required repairs, removing the hazardous
condition or of demolishing the same.
   (b)   Temporary Safeguards. Notwithstanding other provisions of this code,
whenever, in the opinion of the Code Enforcement Officer, there is imminent
danger due to an unsafe condition, the Code Enforcement Officer shall order the
necessary work to be done, including the boarding up of openings, to render
such structure temporarily safe whether or not the legal procedure herein
described has been instituted; and shall cause such other action to be taken as
the Code Enforcement Officer deems necessary to meet such emergency.
   (c)   Closing Streets. When necessary for public safety, the Code
Enforcement Officer shall temporarily close structures and close, or order the
authority having jurisdiction to close, sidewalks, streets, public ways and
places adjacent to unsafe structures, and prohibit the same from being
utilized.
   (d)   Emergency Repairs. For the purposes of this section, the Code
Enforcement Officer shall employ the necessary labor and materials to perform
the required work as expeditiously as possible.
   (e)   Costs of Emergency Repairs. Costs incurred in the performance of
emergency work shall be paid by the jurisdiction and then charged against the
real estate upon which the structure is located and shall be a lien upon such
real estate.
   (f)   Hearing. Any person ordered to take emergency measures shall comply
with such order forthwith. Any affected person shall thereafter, upon petition
directed to the Appeals Board, be afforded a hearing as described in this code.
(Ord. 33-2017, passed 12-11-2017)
§ 1480.08 DEMOLITION.
   (a)   General. The Code Enforcement Officer shall order the owner of any
premises upon which is located any structure, which in the Code Enforcement
Officer judgment after review is so deteriorated or dilapidated or has become
so out of repair as to be dangerous, unsafe, insanitary or otherwise unfit for
human habitation or occupancy, and such that it is unreasonable to repair the
structure, to demolish and remove such structure; or if such structure is
capable of being made safe by repairs, to repair and make safe and sanitary, or
to board up and hold for future repair or to demolish and remove at the owner’s
option; or where there has been a cessation of normal construction of any
structure for a period of more than two years, the Code Enforcement Officer
shall order the owner to demolish and remove such structure, or board up until
future repair. Boarding the building up for future repair shall not extend
beyond one year, unless approved by the Building Official.
   (b)   Notices and Orders. All notices and orders shall comply with §
1480.05 .
   (c)   Failure to Comply. If the owner of a premises fails to comply with a
demolition order within the time prescribed, the Code Enforcement Officer shall
cause the structure to be demolished and removed, either through an available
public agency or by contract or arrangement with private persons, and the cost
of such demolition and removal shall be charged against the real estate upon
which the structure is located and shall be a lien upon such real estate.
   (d)   Salvage Materials. When any structure has been ordered demolished and
removed, the governing body or other designated officer under said contract or
arrangement aforesaid shall have the right to sell the salvage and valuable
materials at the highest price obtainable. The net proceeds of such sale, after
deducting the expenses of such demolition and removal, shall be promptly
remitted with a report of such sale or transaction, including the items of
expense and the amounts deducted, for the person who is entitled thereto,
subject to any order of a court. If such a surplus does not remain to be turned
over, the report shall so state.
(Ord. 33-2017, passed 12-11-2017)
§ 1480.09 MEANS OF APPEAL.
   (a)   Appeals Body. The Planning and Zoning Commission is designated as the
appeals body for all persons directly affected by a decision of the Code
Enforcement Officer or a notice or order issued under this code.
   (b)   Application for Appeal. Any person directly affected by a decision of
the Code Enforcement Officer or a notice or order issued under this code shall
have the right to appeal to the Planning and Zoning Commission, provided that a
written application for appeal is filed within five business days after the day
the decision, notice or order was served. An application for appeal shall be
based on a claim that the true intent of this code or the rules legally adopted
thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do
not fully apply, or the requirements of this code are adequately satisfied by
other means.
   (c)   Stays of Enforcement. Appeals of notices and orders (other than
imminent danger notices) shall stay the enforcement of the notice and order
until the appeal is heard by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
(Ord. 33-2017, passed 12-11-2017)
§ 1480.10 STOP WORK ORDER.
   (a)   Authority. Whenever the Code Enforcement Officer finds any work
regulated by this code being performed in a manner contrary to the provisions
of this code or in a dangerous or unsafe manner, the Code Enforcement Officer
is authorized to issue a stop work order.
   (b)   Issuance. A stop work order shall be in writing and shall be given to
the owner of the property, to the owner’s agent, or to the person doing the
work. Upon issuance of a stop work order, the cited work shall immediately
cease. The stop work order shall state the reason for the order and the
conditions under which the cited work is authorized to resume.
   (c)   Emergencies. Where an emergency exists, the Code Enforcement Officer
shall not be required to give a written notice prior to stopping the work.
   (d)   Failure to Comply. Any person who shall continue any work after having
been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed
to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be liable to a fine
of not less than $250 or more than $500. Every day the work continues shall be
considered a separate violation and subject to a separate fine.
   (e)   Removing a Stop Work Order. Any person who removes a properly posted
stop work order shall be liable for a fine of not less than $250 and not more
than $500.
(Ord. 33-2017, passed 12-11-2017)
§ 1480.11 DEFINITIONS.
   (a)   Scope. Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following terms shall,
for the purposes of this code, have the meanings shown in this chapter.
   (b)   Interchangeability. Words stated in the present tense include the
future; words stated in the masculine gender include the feminine and neuter;
the singular number includes the plural and the plural, the singular.
   (c)   Terms Defined in Other Codes. Where terms are not defined in this code
and are defined in other chapters of the village codified ordinances, such
terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them as in those codes.
   (d)   Terms Not Defined. Where terms are not defined through the methods
authorized by this section, such terms shall have ordinarily accepted meanings
such as the context implies.
   (e)   Parts. Whenever the words “dwelling unit,” “dwelling,” “premises,”
“building,” “rooming house,” “rooming unit,” “housekeeping unit” or “story” are
stated in this code, they shall be construed as though they were followed by
the words “or any part thereof.”
   (f)   Definitions.
      (1)   “Anchored.” Secured in a manner that provides positive connection.
      (2)   “Approved.” Approved by the Code Enforcement Officer.
      (3)   “Basement.” That portion of a building which is partly or
completely below grade.
      (4)   “Bathroom.” A room containing plumbing fixtures including a bathtub
or shower.
      (5)   “Bedroom.” Any room or space used or intended to be used for
sleeping purposes in either a dwelling or sleeping unit.
      (6)   “Code Enforcement Officer.” The official who is charged with the
administration and enforcement of this code, or any duly authorized
representative.
      (7)   “Condemn.” To adjudge unfit for occupancy.
      (8)   “Detached.” When a structural element is physically disconnected
from another and that connection is necessary to provide a positive connection.
      (9)   “Deterioration.” To weaken, disintegrate, corrode, rust or decay
and lose effectiveness.
      (10)   “Dwelling unit.” A single unit providing complete, independent
living facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for
living, sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
      (11)   “Easement.” That portion of land or property reserved for present
or future use by a person or agency other than the legal fee owner(s) of the
property. The easement shall be permitted to be for use under, on or above a
said lot or lots.
      (12)   “Equipment support.” Those structural members or assemblies of
members or manufactured elements, including braces, frames, lugs, snuggers,
hangers or saddles, that transmit gravity load, lateral load and operating load
between the equipment and the structure.
      (13)   “Exterior property.” The open space on the premises and on
adjoining property under the control of owners or operators of such premises.
      (14)   “Garbage.” The animal or vegetable waste resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
      (15)   “Guard.” A building component or a system of building components
located at or near the open sides of elevated walking surfaces that minimizes
the possibility of a fall from the walking surface to a lower level.
      (16)   “Habitable space.” Space in a structure for living, sleeping,
eating or cooking. Bathrooms, toilet rooms, closets, halls, storage or utility
spaces, and similar areas are not considered habitable spaces.
      (17)   “Housekeeping unit.” A room or group of rooms forming a single
habitable space equipped and intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking
and eating which does not contain, within such a unit, a toilet, lavatory and
bathtub or shower.
      (18)   “Imminent danger.” A condition which could cause serious or life-
threatening injury or death at any time.
      (19)   “Infestation.” The presence, within or contiguous to, a structure
or premises of insects, rats, vermin or other pests.
      (20)   “Inoperable motor vehicle.” A vehicle which cannot be driven upon
the public streets for reasons including but not limited to being unlicensed,
wrecked, abandoned, in a state of disrepair, or incapable of being moved under
its own power.
      (21)   “Labeled.” Equipment, materials or products to which have been
affixed a label, seal, symbol or other identifying mark of a nationally
recognized testing laboratory, inspection agency or other organization
concerned with product evaluation that maintains periodic inspection of the
production of the above-labeled items and whose labeling indicates either that
the equipment, material or product meets identified standards or has been
tested and found suitable for a specified purpose.
      (22)   “Let for occupancy or let.” To permit, provide or offer possession
or occupancy of a dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit, building, premise or
structure by a person who is or is not the legal owner of record thereof,
pursuant to a written or unwritten lease, agreement or license, or pursuant to
a recorded or unrecorded agreement of contract for the sale of land.
      (23)   “Neglect.” The lack of proper maintenance for a building or
structure.
      (24)   “NFPA 25.” Standard For The Inspection, Testing, And Maintenance
Of Water-Based Fire Protection Systems published by the National Fire
Protection Association.
      (25)   “NFPA 70.” National Electric Code published by the National Fire
Protection Association.
      (26)   “Occupancy.” The purpose for which a building or portion thereof
is utilized or occupied.
      (27)   “Occupant.” Any individual living or sleeping in a building, or
having possession of a space within a building.
      (28)   “Openable area.” That part of a window, skylight or door which is
available for unobstructed ventilation and which opens directly to the
outdoors.
      (29)   “Operator.” Any person who has charge, care or control of a
structure or premises which is let or offered for occupancy.
      (30)   “Owner.” Any person, agent, operator, firm or corporation having a
legal or equitable interest in the property; or recorded in the official
records of the state, county or municipality as holding title to the property;
or otherwise having control of the property, including the guardian of the
estate of any such person, and the executor or administrator of the estate of
such person if ordered to take possession of real property by a court.
      (31)   “Person.” An individual, corporation, partnership or any other
group acting as a unit.
      (32)   “Pest elimination.” The control and elimination of insects,
rodents or other pests by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or
making inaccessible materials that serve as their food or water; or by other
approved pest elimination methods.
      (33)   “Premises.” A lot, plot or parcel of land, easement or public way,
including any structures thereon.
      (34)   “Public way.” Any street, alley or similar parcel of land
essentially unobstructed from the ground to the sky, which is deeded, dedicated
or otherwise permanently appropriated to the public for public use.
      (35)   “Rooming house.” A building arranged or occupied for lodging, with
or without meals, for compensation and not occupied as a one- or two-family
dwelling.
      (36)   “Rooming unit.” Any room or group of rooms forming a single
habitable unit occupied or intended to be occupied for sleeping or living, but
not for cooking purposes.
      (37)   “Rubbish.” Combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except
garbage; the term shall include the residue from the burning of wood, coal,
coke and other combustible materials, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood,
excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals,
mineral matter, glass, crockery and dust and other similar materials.
      (38)   “Sleeping unit.” A room or space in which people sleep, which can
also include permanent provisions for living, eating and either sanitation or
kitchen facilities, but not both. Such rooms and spaces that are also part of a
dwelling unit are not sleeping units.
      (39)   “Strict liability offense.” An offense in which the prosecution in
a legal proceeding is not required to prove criminal intent as a part of its
case. It is enough to prove that the defendant either did an act which was
prohibited, or failed to do an act which the defendant was legally required to
do.
      (40)   “Structure.” That which is built or constructed or a portion
thereof.
      (41)   “Tenant.” A person, corporation, partnership or group, whether or
not the legal owner of record, occupying a building or portion thereof as a
unit.
      (42)   “Toilet room.” A room containing a water closet or urinal but not
a bathtub or shower.
      (43)   “Ultimate deformation.” The deformation at which failure occurs
and which shall be deemed to occur if the sustainable load reduces to 80% or
less of the maximum strength.
      (44)   “Ventilation.” The natural or mechanical process of supplying
conditioned or unconditioned air to, or removing such air from, any space.
      (45)   “Village.” Village of Minerva Park, Ohio.
      (46)   “Workmanlike.” Executed in a skilled manner; e.g., generally
plumb, level, square, in line, undamaged and without marring adjacent work.
      (47)   “Yard.” An open space on the same lot with a structure.
(Ord. 33-2017, passed 12-11-2017)
§ 1480.12 EXTERIOR PROPERTY AREAS.
   (a)   General. No owner or occupant of any premises shall maintain or permit
to be maintained the exterior property areas of such premises in a condition
that deteriorates or debases the appearance of the neighborhood; reduces
property values in the neighborhood; adversely alters the appearance and
general character of the neighborhood; creates a fire, safety or health hazard;
or is a public nuisance. Such violations include, but are not limited to the
following:
      (1)   Broken or dilapidated fences, walls or other structures;
      (2)   Motor vehicles, trailers, boats and/or other motorized vehicles
parked in grass or upon any premises except upon driveways, parking lots, in
garages or on areas improved for vehicular use and in accordance with other
codified ordinances;
      (3)   The storage of building materials or materials such as earth, sand,
or dirt upon any premises when such materials are not currently being used for
work on the property;
      (4)   Out of use or non-usable appliances or automobile parts;
      (5)   Rugs, rags or other materials hung on lines or in other places on
such premises in such a manner or for such period of time as to be unsightly or
offensive; broken, dilapidated or unusable furniture or outdoor use of
furniture intended for indoor use, mattresses or other household furnishings;
plastic materials, paints, miscellaneous coverings and/or any other materials,
including those described in this section, placed at or on the premises in such
a manner as to be unsightly, grotesque or offensive; and
      (6)   Improperly disposed of materials, materials collected for salvage,
unkempt garbage, trash, litter, and yard waste including brush, tree limbs,
leaves and weeds. Improperly disposed of materials include those materials set
out for collection by the waste haulers that do not meet the waste hauler’s
guidelines for collection.
   (b)   Grading and Drainage. All premises shall be graded and maintained to
prevent the erosion of soil and to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water
thereon, or within any structure located thereon. Exception: Approved retention
areas and reservoirs.
   (c)   Sidewalks and Driveways. All sidewalks, walkways, stairs, driveways,
parking spaces and similar areas shall be kept in a proper state of repair, and
maintained free from hazardous conditions.
   (d)   Weeds. Regulated by
Chapter 665.
   (e)   Rodent Harborage. All structures and exterior property shall be kept
free from rodent harborage and infestation. Where rodents are found, they shall
be promptly exterminated by approved processes which will not be injurious to
human health. After extermination, proper precautions shall be taken to
eliminate rodent harborage and prevent reinfestation.
   (f)   Exhaust Vents. Pipes, ducts, conductors, fans or blowers shall not
discharge gases, steam, vapor, hot air, grease, smoke, odors or other gaseous
or particulate wastes directly upon abutting or adjacent public or private
property or that of another tenant.
   (g)   Accessory Structures. All accessory structures, including detached
garages, fences and walls, shall be maintained structurally sound and in good
repair.
   (h)   Motor Vehicles. Except as provided for in other regulations, no
inoperative or unlicensed motor vehicle shall be parked, kept or stored on any
premises, and no vehicle shall at any time be in a state of major disassembly,
disrepair, or in the process of being stripped or dismantled. Painting of
vehicles is prohibited. Exception: A vehicle of any type is permitted to
undergo major overhaul, including body work, provided that such work is
performed inside a structure or similarly enclosed area designed and approved
for such purposes.
   (i)   Defacement of Property. No person shall willfully or wantonly damage,
mutilate or deface any exterior surface of any structure or building on any
private or public property by placing thereon any marking, carving or graffiti.
It shall be the responsibility of the owner to restore said surface to an
approved state of maintenance and repair, within seven days of being notified
of the presence of such graffiti.
   (j)   Swimming Pools, Spas and Hot Tubs. Swimming pools, spas, and hot tubs
shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition, and in good repair. All
swimming pools, spas and hot tubs that do not contain water must be covered at
all times. All swimming pools must be covered between the months of November
through April except for routine maintenance. All hot tubs and spas must be
covered when not in use.
(Ord. 33-2017, passed 12-11-2017)
§ 1480.13 EXTERIOR STRUCTURE.
   (a)   General. The exterior of a structure shall be maintained in good
repair, structurally sound and sanitary so as not to pose a threat to the
public health, safety or welfare.
   (b)   Unsafe Conditions. The following conditions shall be determined as
unsafe and shall be repaired or replaced to comply with the Residential Code of
Ohio or Ohio Building Code, whichever applies as well as the codes and
provisions adopted therein or the Residential Code of Ohio or Ohio Building
Code, whichever applies as well as the codes and provisions adopted therein as
required for existing buildings:
      (1)   The nominal strength of any structural member is exceeded by
nominal loads, the load effects or the required strength;
      (2)   The anchorage of the floor or roof to walls or columns, and of
walls and columns to foundations is not capable of resisting all nominal loads
or load effects;
      (3)   Structures or components thereof that have reached their limit
state;
      (4)   Siding and masonry joints including joints between the building
envelope and the perimeter of windows, doors and skylights are not maintained,
weather resistant or water tight;
      (5)   Structural members that have evidence of deterioration or that are
not capable of safely supporting all nominal loads and load effects;
      (6)   Foundation systems that are not firmly supported by footings, are
not plumb and free from open cracks and breaks, are not properly anchored or
are not capable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load effects;
      (7)   Exterior walls that are not anchored to supporting and supported
elements or are not plumb and free of holes, cracks or breaks and loose or
rotting materials, are not properly anchored or are not capable of supporting
all nominal loads and resisting all load effects;
      (8)   Roofing or roofing components that have defects that admit rain,
roof surfaces with inadequate drainage, or any portion of the roof framing that
is not in good repair with signs of deterioration, fatigue or without proper
anchorage and incapable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load
effects;
      (9)   Flooring and flooring components with defects that affect
serviceability or flooring components that show signs of deterioration or
fatigue, are not properly anchored or are incapable of supporting all nominal
loads and resisting all load effects;
      (10)   Veneer, cornices, belt courses, corbels, trim, wall facings and
similar decorative features not properly anchored or that are anchored with
connections not capable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load
effects;
      (11)   Overhang extensions or projections including, but not limited to,
trash chutes, canopies, marquees, signs, awnings, fire escapes, standpipes and
exhaust ducts not properly anchored or that are anchored with connections not
capable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load effects;
      (12)   Exterior stairs, decks, porches, balconies and all similar
appurtenances attached thereto, including guards and handrails, are not
structurally sound, not properly anchored or that are anchored with connections
not capable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load effects; or
      (13)   Chimneys, cooling towers, smokestacks and similar appurtenances
not structurally sound or not properly anchored, or that are anchored with
connections not capable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load
effects. Exceptions: When substantiated otherwise by an approved method,
demolition of unsafe conditions shall be permitted when approved by the Code
Enforcement Officer.
   (c)   Protective Treatment.
      (1)   All exterior surfaces, including but not limited to, doors, door
and window frames, cornices, porches, trim, balconies, decks and fences, shall
be maintained in good condition. Exterior wood surfaces, other than decay-
resistant woods, shall be protected from the elements and decay by painting or
other protective covering or treatment. Peeling, flaking and chipped paint
shall be eliminated and surfaces repainted. All siding and masonry joints, as
well as those between the building envelope and the perimeter of windows, doors
and skylights, shall be maintained weather resistant and water tight. All metal
surfaces subject to rust or corrosion shall be coated to inhibit such rust and
corrosion, and all surfaces with rust or corrosion shall be stabilized and
coated to inhibit future rust and corrosion. Oxidation stains shall be removed
from exterior surfaces. Surfaces designed for stabilization by oxidation are
exempt from this requirement.
      (2)   Tarps of any color may be used to temporarily weather-proof a
structure pending permanent repair for up to two weeks. Tarps remaining in
place longer than two weeks must receive approval by the Code Enforcement
Officer or other official designated by the Mayor. Tarps used to cover items
for longer than two weeks may only be brown, dark green or dark camouflage.
   (d)   Premises Identification. Buildings shall have approved address numbers
placed in a position to be plainly legible and visible from the street or road
fronting the property. These numbers shall contrast with their background.
Address numbers shall be Arabic numerals or alphabet letters. Numbers shall be
a minimum of four inches high with a minimum stroke width of five-tenths inch.
   (e)   Structural Members. All structural members shall be maintained free
from deterioration, and shall be capable of safely supporting the imposed dead
and live loads.
   (f)   Foundation Walls. All foundation walls shall be maintained plumb and
free from open cracks and breaks and shall be kept in such condition so as to
prevent the entry of rodents and other pests.
   (g)   Exterior Walls. All exterior walls shall be free from holes, breaks,
and loose or rotting materials, and maintained weatherproof and properly
surface coated where required to prevent deterioration.
   (h)   Roofs and Drainage. The roof and flashing shall be sound, tight and
not have defects that admit rain. Roof drainage shall be adequate to prevent
dampness or deterioration in the walls or interior portion of the structure.
Roof drains, gutters and downspouts shall be maintained in good repair and free
from obstructions. Roof water shall not be discharged in a manner that creates
a public nuisance.
   (i)   Decorative Features. All cornices, belt courses, corbels, terra cotta
trim, wall facings and similar decorative features shall be maintained in good
repair with proper anchorage and in a safe condition.
   (j)   Overhang Extensions. All overhang extensions including, but not
limited to canopies, marquees, signs, metal awnings, fire escapes, standpipes
and exhaust ducts shall be maintained in good repair and be properly anchored
so as to be kept in a sound condition. When required, all exposed surfaces of
metal or wood shall be protected from the elements and against decay or rust by
periodic application of weather-coating materials, such as paint or similar
surface treatment.
   (k)   Stairways, Decks, Porches and Balconies. Every exterior stairway,
deck, porch and balcony, and all appurtenances attached thereto, shall be
maintained structurally sound, in good repair, with proper anchorage and
capable of supporting the imposed loads.
   (l)   Chimneys and Towers. All chimneys, cooling towers, smoke stacks, and
similar appurtenances shall be maintained structurally safe and sound, and in
good repair. All exposed surfaces of metal or wood shall be protected from the
elements and against decay or rust by periodic application of weather-coating
materials, such as paint or similar surface treatment.
   (m)   Handrails and Guards. Every handrail and guard shall be firmly
fastened and capable of supporting normally imposed loads and shall be
maintained in good condition.
   (n)   Window, Skylight and Door Frames. Every window, skylight, door and
frame shall be kept in sound condition, good repair and weather tight.
      (1)   Glazing. All glazing materials shall be maintained free from cracks
and holes.
      (2)   Openable Windows. Every window, other than a fixed window, shall be
easily openable and capable of being held in position by window hardware.
   (o)   Insect Screens. At all times, every door, window and other outside
opening required for ventilation of habitable rooms, food preparation areas,
food service areas or any areas where products to be included or utilized in
food for human consumption are processed, manufactured, packaged or stored
shall be supplied with approved tightly fitting screens of not less than 16
mesh per inch (16 mesh per 25 mm), and every screen door used for insect
control shall have a self-closing device in good working condition. Exception:
screens shall not be required where other approved means, such as air curtains
or insect repellent fans, are employed.
   (p)   Doors. All exterior doors, door assemblies and hardware shall be
maintained in good condition. Locks at all entrances to dwelling units and
sleeping units shall tightly secure the door. Locks on means of egress doors
shall be in accordance with §
1480.23 (b)(2).
   (q)   Basement Hatchways. Every basement hatchway shall be maintained to
prevent the entrance of rodents, rain and surface drainage water.
   (r)   Guards for Basement Windows. Every basement window that is openable
shall be supplied with rodent shields, storm windows or other approved
protection against the entry of rodents.
   (s)   Building Security. Doors, windows or hatchways for dwelling units,
room units or housekeeping units shall be provided with devices designed to
provide security for the occupants and property within.
      (1)   Doors. Doors providing access to a dwelling unit, rooming unit or
housekeeping unit that is rented, leased or let shall be equipped with a
deadbolt lock designed to be readily openable from the side from which egress
is to be made without the need for keys, special knowledge or effort and shall
have a lock throw of not less than one inch (25 mm). Such deadbolt locks shall
be installed according to the manufacturer’s specifications and maintained in
good working order. For the purpose of this section, a sliding bolt shall not
be considered an acceptable deadbolt lock.
      (2)   Windows. Operable windows located in whole or in part within six
feet above ground level or a walking surface below that provide access to a
dwelling unit, rooming unit or housekeeping unit that is rented, leased or let
shall be equipped with a window sash locking device.
      (3)   Basement Hatchways. Basement hatchways that provide access to a
dwelling unit, rooming unit or housekeeping unit that is rented, leased or let
shall be equipped with devices that secure the units from unauthorized entry.
(Ord. 33-2017, passed 12-11-2017)
§ 1480.14 INTERIOR STRUCTURE.
   (a)   General. The interior of a structure and equipment therein shall be
maintained in good repair, structurally sound and in a sanitary condition.
Occupants shall keep that part of the structure which they occupy or control in
a clean and sanitary condition. Every owner of a structure containing a rooming
house, housekeeping units, a hotel, a dormitory, two or more dwelling units or
two or more nonresidential occupancies, shall maintain, in a clean and sanitary
condition, the shared or public areas of the structure and exterior property.
   (b)   Unsafe Conditions. The following conditions shall be determined as
unsafe and shall be repaired or replaced to comply with the Residential Code of
Ohio or Ohio Building Code, whichever applies as well as the codes and
provisions adopted therein as required for existing buildings:
      (1)   The nominal strength of any structural member is exceeded by
nominal loads, the load effects or the required strength;
      (2)   The anchorage of the floor or roof to walls or columns, and of
walls and columns to foundations is not capable of resisting all nominal loads
or load effects;
      (3)   Structures or components thereof that have reached their limit
state;
      (4)   Structural members are incapable of supporting nominal loads and
load effects;
      (5)   Stairs, landings, balconies and all similar walking surfaces,
including guards and handrails, are not structurally sound, not properly
anchored or are anchored with connections not capable of supporting all nominal
loads and resisting all load effects;
      (6)   Foundation systems that are not firmly supported by footings are
not plumb and free from open cracks and breaks, are not properly anchored or
are not capable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load effects;
      (7)   Demolition of unsafe conditions shall be permitted when approved by
the Code Enforcement Officer; or
      (8)   Exception: When substantiated otherwise by an approved method.
   (c)   Structural Members. All structural members shall be maintained
structurally sound and be capable of supporting the imposed loads.
   (d)   Interior Surfaces. All interior surfaces, including windows and doors,
shall be maintained in good, clean and sanitary condition. Peeling, chipping,
flaking or abraded paint shall be repaired, removed or covered. Cracked or
loose plaster, decayed wood and other defective surface conditions shall be
corrected.
   (e)   Stairs and Walking Surfaces. Every stair, ramp, landing, balcony,
porch, deck or other walking surface shall be maintained in sound condition and
good repair.
   (f)   Handrails and Guards. Every handrail and guard shall be firmly
fastened and capable of supporting normally imposed loads and shall be
maintained in good condition.
   (g)   Interior Doors. Every interior door shall fit reasonably well within
its frame and shall be capable of being opened and closed by being properly and
securely attached to jambs, headers or tracks as intended by the manufacturer
of the attachment hardware.
   (h)   Window Treatments. Every window opening having interior window
treatment shall be maintained in good working order without broken, torn, or
disheveled materials. Window treatments of temporary materials, clothing items
or bedding are not permitted.
(Ord. 33-2017, passed 12-11-2017)
§ 1480.15 COMPONENT SERVICEABILITY.
   (a)   General. The components of a structure and equipment therein shall be
maintained in good repair, structurally sound and in a sanitary condition.
   (b)   Unsafe Conditions. Where any of the following conditions cause the
component or system to be beyond its limit state, the component or system shall
be determined as unsafe and shall be repaired or replaced to comply with the
Residential Code of Ohio or Ohio Building Code, whichever applies, as well as
the codes and provisions adopted therein as required for existing buildings:
      (1)   Soils. Soils that have been subjected to any of the following
conditions:
         A.   Collapse of footing or foundation system;
         B.   Damage to footing, foundation, concrete or other structural
element due to soil expansion;
         C.   Adverse effects to the design strength of footing, foundation,
concrete or other structural element due to a chemical reaction from the soil;
         D.   Inadequate soil as determined by a geotechnical investigation;
         E.   Where the allowable bearing capacity of the soil is in doubt; or
         F.   Adverse effects to the footing, foundation, concrete or other
structural element due to the ground water table.
      (2)   Concrete or Asphalt Concrete or Asphalt. Concrete or asphalt
concrete or asphalt that has been subjected to any of the following conditions:
         A.   Deterioration;
         B.   Ultimate deformation;
         C.   Fractures;
         D.   Fissures;
         E.   Spalling;
         F.   Exposed reinforcement; or
         G.   Detached, dislodged or failing connections.
      (3)   Aluminum. Aluminum that has been subjected to any of the following
conditions:
         A.   Deterioration;
         B.   Corrosion;
         C.   Elastic deformation;
         D.   Ultimate deformation;
         E.   Stress or strain cracks;
         F.   Joint fatigue; or
         G.   Detached, dislodged or failing connections.
      (4)   Masonry. Masonry that has been subjected to any of the following
conditions:
         A.   Deterioration;
         B.   Ultimate deformation;
         C.   Fractures in masonry or mortar joints;
         D.   Fissures in masonry or mortar joints;
         E.   Spalling;
         F.   Exposed reinforcement; or
         G.   Detached, dislodged or failing connections.
      (5)   Steel. Steel that has been subjected to any of the following
conditions:
         A.   Deterioration;
         B.   Elastic deformation;
         C.   Ultimate deformation;
         D.   Metal fatigue; or
         E.   Detached, dislodged or failing connections.
      (6)   Wood. Wood that has been subjected to any of the following
conditions:
         A.   Ultimate deformation;
         B.   Deterioration;
         C.   Damage from insects, rodents and other vermin;
         D.   Fire damage beyond charring;
         E.   Significant splits and checks;
         F.   Horizontal shear cracks;
         G.   Vertical shear cracks;
         H.   Inadequate support;
         I.   Detached, dislodged or failing connections; or
         J.   Excessive cutting and notching.
      (7)   Demolition. Demolition of unsafe conditions shall be permitted when
approved by the Code Enforcement Officer.
      (8)   Exception. When substantiated otherwise by an approved method.
(Ord. 33-2017, passed 12-11-2017)
§ 1480.16 HANDRAILS AND GUARDRAILS.
   The standards of the Residential Code of Ohio or Ohio Building Code,
whichever applies, shall govern the standards for handrails and guardrails.
(Ord. 33-2017, passed 12-11-2017)
§ 1480.17 RUBBISH AND GARBAGE.
   (a)   Accumulation of Rubbish or Garbage. All exterior property and
premises, and the interior of every structure, shall be free from any
accumulation of rubbish or garbage.
   (b)   Disposal of Rubbish. Every occupant of a structure shall dispose of
all rubbish in a clean and sanitary manner by placing such rubbish in approved
containers.
   (c)   Rubbish Storage Facilities. The owner of every occupied premises shall
supply approved covered containers for rubbish, and the owner of the premises
shall be responsible for the removal of rubbish.
   (d)   Refrigerators. Refrigerators and similar equipment shall not be
discarded, abandoned or stored on the exterior of the premises.
   (e)   Disposal of Garbage. Every occupant of a structure shall dispose of
garbage in a clean and sanitary manner by placing such garbage in an approved
garbage disposal facility or approved garbage containers. Properly maintained
compost bins or piles are acceptable.
   (f)   Garbage Facilities. The owner of every dwelling shall supply one of
the following: an approved mechanical food waste grinder in each dwelling unit;
an approved incinerator unit in the structure available to the occupants in
each dwelling unit; or an approved leakproof, covered, outside garbage
container.
   (g)   Containers. The operator of every establishment producing garbage
shall provide, and at all times cause to be utilized, approved leakproof
containers provided with close-fitting covers for the storage of such materials
until removed from the premises for disposal.
(Ord. 33-2017, passed 12-11-2017)
§ 1480.18 PEST ELIMINATION.
   (a)   Infestation. All structures shall be kept free from insect and rodent
infestation. All structures in which insects or rodents are found shall be
promptly exterminated by approved processes that will not be injurious to human
health. After extermination, proper precautions shall be taken to prevent
reinfestation.
   (b)   Owner. The owner of any structure shall be responsible for
extermination within the structure prior to renting or leasing the structure.
   (c)   Single Occupant. The occupant of a one-family dwelling or of a single-
tenant nonresidential structure shall be responsible for extermination on the
premises.
   (d)   Multiple Occupancy. The owner of a structure containing two or more
dwelling units, a multiple occupancy, a rooming house or a nonresidential
structure shall be responsible for extermination in the public or shared areas
of the structure and exterior property. If infestation is caused by failure of
an occupant to prevent such infestation in the area occupied, the occupant and
owner shall be responsible for extermination.
   (e)   Occupant. The occupant of any structure shall be responsible for the
continued rodent and pest-free condition of the structure.
   (f)   Exception. Where the infestations are caused by defects in the
structure, the owner shall be responsible for extermination.
(Ord. 33-2017, passed 12-11-2017)
§ 1480.19 LIGHT, VENTILATION AND SPACE CONDITIONS.
   (a)   Responsibility. The owner of the structure shall provide and maintain
light, ventilation and space conditions in compliance with these requirements.
A person shall not occupy as owner-occupant, or permit another person to
occupy, any premises that do not comply with the requirements of this section.
   (b)   Alternative Devices. In lieu of the means for natural light and
ventilation herein prescribed, artificial light or mechanical ventilation
complying with the Residential Code of Ohio or Ohio Building Code, whichever
applies as well as the codes and provisions adopted therein shall be permitted.
   (c)   Light.
      (1)   Habitable Spaces. Every habitable space shall have at least one
window of approved size facing directly to the outdoors or to a court. The
minimum total glazed area for every habitable space shall be 8% of the floor
area of such room. Wherever walls or other portions of a structure face a
window of any room and such obstructions are located less than three feet from
the window and extend to a level above that of the ceiling of the room, such
window shall not be deemed to face directly to the outdoors nor to a court and
shall not be included as contributing to the required minimum total window area
for the room. Exception: where natural light for rooms or spaces without
exterior glazing areas is provided through an adjoining room, the unobstructed
opening to the adjoining room shall be at least 8% of the floor area of the
interior room or space, but not less than 25 square feet. The exterior glazing
area shall be based on the total floor area being served.
      (2)   Common Halls and Stairways. Every common hall and stairway in
residential occupancies, other than in one- and two-family dwellings, shall be
lighted at all times to one foot-candle or more. In the past, a 60-watt
standard incandescent light bulb for each 200 square feet of floor area or
equivalent illumination, provided that the spacing between lights shall not be
greater than 30 feet. In other than residential occupancies, means of egress,
including exterior means of egress, stairways shall be illuminated at all times
the building space served by the means of egress is occupied with a minimum of
one foot-candle at floors, landings and treads.
      (3)   Other Spaces. All other spaces shall be provided with natural or
artificial light sufficient to permit the maintenance of sanitary conditions,
and the safe occupancy of the space and utilization of the appliances,
equipment and fixtures.
   (d)   Ventilation.
      (1)   Habitable Spaces. Every habitable space shall have at least one
openable window. The total openable area of the window in every room shall be
equal to at least 45% of the minimum glazed area required in division (c)(1) of
this section. Exception: Where rooms and spaces without openings to the
outdoors are ventilated through an adjoining room, the unobstructed opening to
the adjoining room shall be at least 8% of the floor area of the interior room
or space, but not less than 25 square feet. The ventilation openings to the
outdoors shall be based on a total floor area being ventilated.
      (2)   Bathrooms and Toilet Rooms. Every bathroom and toilet room shall
comply with the ventilation requirements for habitable spaces as required by
division (d)(1) of this section except that a window shall not be required in
such spaces equipped with a mechanical ventilation system. Air exhausted by a
mechanical ventilation system from a bathroom or toilet room shall discharge to
the outdoors and shall not be recirculated.
      (3)   Cooking Facilities. Unless approved through the certificate of
occupancy, cooking shall not be permitted in any rooming unit or dormitory
unit, and a cooking facility or appliance shall not be permitted to be present
in the rooming unit or dormitory unit. For purposes of these regulations,
coffee pots and microwave ovens shall not be considered cooking appliances.
Exception: where specifically approved in writing by the Code Enforcement
Officer.
      (4)   Process Ventilation. Where injurious, toxic, irritating or noxious
fumes, gases, dusts or mists are generated, a local exhaust ventilation system
shall be provided to remove the contaminating agent at the source. Air shall be
exhausted to the exterior and not be recirculated to any space.
      (5)   Clothes Dryer Exhaust. Clothes dryer exhaust systems shall be
independent of all other systems and shall be exhausted outside the structure
in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions. Exception: listed and
labeled condensing (ductless) clothes dryers.
   (e)   Occupancy Limitations.
      (1)   Privacy. Dwelling units, hotel units, housekeeping units, rooming
units and dormitory units shall be arranged to provide privacy and be separate
from other adjoining spaces.
      (2)   Minimum Room Widths. Minimum room widths shall be defined by the
Residential Code of Ohio or Ohio Building Code, whichever applies.
      (3)   Minimum Ceiling Heights. Minimum ceiling heights shall be defined
by the Residential Code of Ohio or Ohio Building Code, whichever applies.
      (4)   Bedroom and Living Room Requirements. Every bedroom and living room
shall comply with the requirements of divisions (e)(5) through (9) of this
section.
      (5)   Room Area. Every living room shall contain at least 120 square feet
and every bedroom shall contain at least 70 square feet.
      (6)   Access from Bedrooms. Bedrooms shall not constitute the only means
of access to other bedrooms or habitable spaces and shall not serve as the only
means of egress from other habitable spaces. Exception: units that contain
fewer than two bedrooms.
      (7)   Water Closet Accessibility. Every bedroom shall have access to at
least one water closet and one lavatory without passing through another
bedroom. Every bedroom in a dwelling unit shall have access to at least one
water closet and lavatory located in the same story as the bedroom or an
adjacent story.
      (8)   Prohibited Occupancy. Kitchens and non-habitable spaces shall not
be used for sleeping purposes.
      (9)   Other Requirements. Bedrooms shall comply with the applicable
provisions of this code including, but not limited to, the light, ventilation,
room area, ceiling height and room width requirements of this section; the
plumbing facilities and water-heating facilities requirements of §
1480.20 ; the heating facilities and electrical receptacle requirements of §
1480.21 ; and the fire safety requirements of §
1480.22 .
      (10)   Overcrowding. The number of persons occupying a dwelling unit
shall not create conditions that, in the opinion of the Code Enforcement
Officer, endanger the life, health, safety or welfare of the occupants.
      (11)   Efficiency Unit. Nothing in this section shall prohibit an
efficiency living unit from meeting the following requirements:
         A.   A unit occupied by not more than two occupants shall have a clear
floor area of not less than 220 square feet. A unit occupied by three occupants
shall have a clear floor area of not less than 320 square feet. These required
areas shall be exclusive of the areas required in divisions (e)(11)B. and C. of
this section.
         B.   The unit shall be provided with a kitchen sink, cooking appliance
and refrigeration facilities, each having a clear working space of not less
than 30 inches in front. Light and ventilation conforming to this code shall be
provided.
         C.   The unit shall be provided with a separate bathroom containing a
water closet, lavatory and bathtub or shower.
         D.   The maximum number of occupants shall be three.
      (12)   Food Preparation. All spaces to be occupied for food preparation
purposes shall contain suitable space and equipment to store, prepare and serve
foods in a sanitary manner. There shall be adequate facilities and services for
the sanitary disposal of food wastes and refuse, including facilities for
temporary storage.
(Ord. 33-2017, passed 12-11-2017)
§ 1480.20 PLUMBING.
   (a)   Scope. The provisions of this section shall govern the minimum
plumbing systems, facilities and plumbing fixtures to be provided.
   (b)   Responsibility. The owner of the structure shall provide and maintain
such plumbing facilities and plumbing fixtures in compliance with these
requirements. A person shall not occupy as owner-occupant or permit another
person to occupy any structure or premises which does not comply with the
requirements of this chapter.
   (c)   Required Facilities.
      (1)   Dwelling Units. Every dwelling unit shall contain its own bathtub
or shower, lavatory, water closet and kitchen sink which shall be maintained in
a sanitary, safe working condition. The lavatory shall be placed in the same
room as the water closet or located in close proximity to the door leading
directly into the room in which such water closet is located. A kitchen sink
shall not be used as a substitute for the required lavatory.
      (2)   Rooming Houses. At least one water closet, lavatory and bathtub or
shower shall be supplied for each four rooming units.
      (3)   Hotels. Where private water closets, lavatories and baths are not
provided, one water closet, one lavatory and one bathtub or shower having
access from a public hallway shall be provided for each ten occupants.
      (4)   Employees’ Facilities. A minimum of one water closet, one lavatory
and one drinking facility shall be available to employees.
      (5)   Drinking Facilities. Drinking facilities shall be a drinking
fountain, water cooler, bottled water cooler or disposable cups next to a sink
or water dispenser. Drinking facilities shall not be located in toilet rooms or
bathrooms.
      (6)   Public Toilet Facilities. Public toilet facilities shall be
maintained in a safe sanitary and working condition in accordance with the Ohio
Plumbing Code. Except for periodic maintenance or cleaning, public access and
use shall be provided to the toilet facilities at all times during occupancy of
the premises.
   (d)   Toilet Rooms.
      (1)   Privacy. Toilet rooms and bathrooms shall provide privacy and shall
not constitute the only passageway to a hall or other space, or to the
exterior. A door and interior locking device shall be provided for all common
or shared bathrooms and toilet rooms in a multiple dwelling.
      (2)   Location. Toilet rooms and bathrooms serving hotel units, rooming
units or dormitory units or housekeeping units, shall have access by traversing
not more than one flight of stairs and shall have access from a common hall or
passageway.
      (3)   Location of Employee Toilet Facilities. Toilet facilities shall
have access from within the employees’ working area. The required toilet
facilities shall be located not more than one story above or below the
employees’ working area and the path of travel to such facilities shall not
exceed a distance of 500 feet. Employee facilities shall either be separate
facilities or combined employee and public facilities. Exception: facilities
that are required for employees in storage structures or kiosks, which are
located in adjacent structures under the same ownership, lease or control,
shall not exceed a travel distance of 500 feet from the employees’ regular
working area to the facilities.
      (4)   Floor Surface. In other than dwelling units, every toilet room
floor shall be maintained to be a smooth, hard, nonabsorbent surface to permit
such floor to be easily kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (e)   Plumbing Systems and Fixtures. All plumbing fixtures shall be properly
installed and maintained in working order, and shall be kept free from
obstructions, leaks and defects and be capable of performing the function for
which such plumbing fixtures are designed. All plumbing fixtures shall be
maintained in a safe, sanitary and functional condition.
      (1)   Fixture Clearances. Plumbing fixtures shall have adequate
clearances for usage and cleaning.
      (2)   Plumbing System Hazards. Where it is found that a plumbing system
in a structure constitutes a hazard to the occupants or the structure by reason
of inadequate service, inadequate venting, cross connection, back siphonage,
improper installation, deterioration or damage or for similar reasons, the Code
Enforcement Officer shall require the defects to be corrected to eliminate the
hazard.
   (f)   Water System. Every sink, lavatory, bathtub or shower, drinking
fountain, water closet or other plumbing fixture shall be properly connected to
either a public water system or to an approved private water system. All
kitchen sinks, lavatories, laundry facilities, bathtubs and showers shall be
supplied with hot or tempered and cold running water in accordance with the
Ohio Plumbing Code.
      (1)   Contamination. The water supply shall be maintained free from
contamination, and all water inlets for plumbing fixtures shall be located
above the flood-level rim of the fixture. Shampoo basin faucets, janitor sink
faucets and other hose bibs or faucets to which hoses are attached and left in
place, shall be protected by an approved atmospheric-type vacuum breaker or an
approved permanently attached hose connection vacuum breaker.
      (2)   Supply. The water supply system shall be installed and maintained
to provide a supply of water to plumbing fixtures, devices and appurtenances in
sufficient volume and at pressures adequate to enable the fixtures to function
properly, safely, and free from defects and leaks.
      (3)   Water Heating Facilities. Water heating facilities shall be
properly installed, maintained and capable of providing an adequate amount of
water to be drawn at every required sink, lavatory, bathtub, shower and laundry
facility at a temperature of not less than 110° F. (43° C). A gas-burning water
heater shall not be located in any bathroom, toilet room, bedroom or other
occupied room normally kept closed, unless adequate combustion air is provided.
An approved combination temperature and pressure-relief valve and relief valve
discharge pipe shall be properly installed and maintained on water heaters.
   (g)   Sanitary Drainage System. All plumbing fixtures shall be properly
connected to either a public sewer system or to an approved private sewage
disposal system.
      (1)   Maintenance. Every plumbing stack, vent, waste and sewer line shall
function properly and be kept free from obstructions, leaks and defects.
      (2)   Grease Interceptors. Where it has been determined that a grease
interceptor is not being maintained and serviced as intended by this code and
the manufacturer’s instructions, an approved interceptor monitoring system
shall be provided or a maintenance program shall be established with
documentation submitted to the Code Enforcement Officer.
   (h)   Storm Drainage. Drainage of roofs and paved areas, yards and courts,
and other open areas on the premises shall not be discharged in a manner that
creates a public nuisance.
(Ord. 33-2017, passed 12-11-2017)
§ 1480.21 MECHANICAL AND ELECTRICAL FACILITIES AND EQUIPMENT.
   (a)   Responsibility. The owner of the structure shall provide and maintain
mechanical and electrical facilities and equipment in compliance with these
requirements. A person shall not occupy as owner-occupant or permit another
person to occupy any premises which does not comply with the requirements of
this chapter.
   (b)   Heating Facilities. Heating facilities shall be provided in structures
as required by this section.
      (1)   Residential Occupancies. Dwellings shall be provided with heating
facilities capable of maintaining a room temperature of 68° F. (20° C.) in all
habitable rooms, bathrooms and toilet rooms. Cooking appliances shall not be
used to provide space heating to meet the requirements of this section.
         A.   Heat Supply. Every owner and operator of any building who rents,
leases or lets one or more dwelling units or sleeping units on terms, either
expressed or implied, to furnish heat to the occupants thereof shall supply
heat during the period from September 1 to May 31 to maintain a temperature of
not less than 68° F. (20° C.) in all habitable rooms, bathrooms and toilet
rooms.
         B.   Exception. When the outdoor temperature is below the winter
outdoor design temperature for the locality, maintenance of the minimum room
temperature shall not be required provided that the heating system is operating
at its full design capacity.
      (2)   Occupiable Work Spaces. Indoor occupiable work spaces shall be
supplied with heat during the period from September 1 to May 31 to maintain a
temperature of not less than 65° F. (18° C.) during the period the spaces are
occupied. Exceptions: processing, storage and operation areas that require
cooling or special temperature conditions; areas in which persons are primarily
engaged in vigorous physical activities.
      (3)   Room Temperature Measurement. The required room temperatures shall
be measured three feet above the floor near the center of the room and two feet
inward from the center of each exterior wall.
   (c)   Mechanical Appliances. All mechanical appliances, fireplaces, solid
fuel-burning appliances, cooking appliances and water heating appliances shall
be properly installed and maintained in a safe working condition, and shall be
capable of performing the intended function.
      (1)   Removal of Combustion Products. All fuel-burning equipment and
appliances shall be connected to an approved chimney or vent. Exception: fuel-
burning equipment and appliances which are labeled for unvented operation.
      (2)   Clearances. All required clearances to combustible materials shall
be maintained.
      (3)   Safety Controls. All safety controls for fuel-burning equipment
shall be maintained in effective operation.
      (4)   Combustion Air. A supply of air for complete combustion of the fuel
and for ventilation of the space containing the fuel-burning equipment shall be
provided for the fuel-burning equipment.
      (5)   Energy Conservation Devices. Devices intended to reduce fuel
consumption by attachment to a fuel-burning appliance, to the fuel supply line
thereto, or to the vent outlet or vent piping therefrom, shall not be installed
unless labeled for such purpose and the installation is specifically approved.
   (d)   Electrical Facilities. Every occupied building shall be provided with
an electrical system in compliance with the requirements of this section.
      (1)   Service. The size and usage of appliances and equipment shall serve
as a basis for determining the need for additional facilities in accordance
with the most current edition of NFPA 70. Dwelling units shall be served by a
three-wire, 120/240 volt, single-phase electrical service having a rating of
not less than 60 amperes.
      (2)   Electrical System Hazards. Where it is found that the electrical
system in a structure constitutes a hazard to the occupants or the structure by
reason of inadequate service, improper fusing, insufficient receptacle and
lighting outlets, improper wiring or installation, deterioration or damage, or
for similar reasons, the Code Enforcement Officer shall require the defects to
be corrected to eliminate the hazard.
      (3)   Abatement of Electrical Hazards Associated with Water Exposure. The
provisions of this section shall govern the repair and replacement of
electrical systems and equipment that have been exposed to water. Exception:
the following equipment shall be allowed to be repaired where an inspection
report from the equipment manufacturer or approved manufacturer’s
representative indicates that the equipment has not sustained damage that
requires replacement:
         A.   Enclosed switches, rated 600 volts or less;
         B.   Busway, rated 600 volts or less;
         C.   Panelboards, rated 600 volts or less;
         D.   Switchboards, rated 600 volts or less;
         E.   Fire pump controllers, rated 600 volts or less;
         F.   Manual and magnetic motor controllers;
         G.   Motor control centers;
         H.   Alternating current high-voltage circuit breakers;
         I.   Low-voltage power circuit breakers;
         J.   Protective relays, meters and current transformers;
         K.   Low- and medium-voltage switchgear;
         L.   Liquid-filled transformers;
         M.   Cast-resin transformers;
         N.   Wire or cable that is suitable for wet locations and whose ends
have not been exposed to water;
         O.   Wire or cable, not containing fillers, that is suitable for wet
locations and whose ends have not been exposed to water;
         P.   Luminaires that are listed as submersible;
         Q.   Motors; and
         R.   Electronic control, signaling and communication equipment.
      (4)   Abatement of Electrical Hazards Associated with Fire Exposure. The
provisions of this section shall govern the repair and replacement of
electrical systems and equipment that have been exposed to fire. Electrical
switches, receptacles and fixtures, including furnace, water heating, security
system and power distribution circuits, that have been exposed to fire, shall
be replaced in accordance with the provisions of the Residential Code of Ohio
or Ohio Building Code, whichever applies as well as the codes and provisions
adopted therein. Exception: electrical switches, receptacles and fixtures that
shall be allowed to be repaired where an inspection report from the equipment
manufacturer or approved manufacturer’s representative indicates that the
equipment has not sustained damage that requires replacement.
   (e)   Electrical Equipment.
      (1)   Installation. All electrical equipment, wiring and appliances shall
be properly installed and maintained in a safe and approved manner.
      (2)   Receptacles. Every habitable space in a dwelling shall contain at
least two separate and remote receptacle outlets. Every laundry area shall
contain at least one grounded-type receptacle or a receptacle with a ground
fault circuit interrupter. Every bathroom shall contain at least one
receptacle. Any new bathroom receptacle outlet shall have ground fault circuit
interrupter protection. Each dwelling unit shall be provided with a branch
circuit panel board with branch circuit over current protection devices. A
minimum of two 20 ampere appliance branch circuits shall be provided to the
kitchen area and any receptacles adjacent to the sink area shall be GFCI
protected in accordance with National Electric Code 210-8 and 210-52
requirements. A separate branch circuit shall be provided to the bathroom area
and the GFCI requirements shall be followed. The remaining habitable rooms
shall be provided with at least one wall switch controlled light fixture outlet
or switched receptacle and two other separate wall type electric convenience
outlets.
      (3)   Luminaires. Every public hall, interior stairway, toilet room,
kitchen, bathroom, laundry room, boiler room and furnace room shall contain at
least one electric luminaire.
      (4)   Additional Requirements for Multiple-Family Dwellings. In all
multiple family dwellings, all sub panels and switching for full time lighting
shall be located in areas not accessible to the public.
   (f)   NFPA 70. The most current edition of NFPA 70 is incorporated and made
part of this code.
   (g)   Elevators, Escalators and Dumbwaiters. Elevators, dumbwaiters and
escalators shall be maintained in compliance with ASME A17.1. The most current
certificate of inspection shall be on display at all times within the elevator
or attached to the escalator or dumbwaiter, be available for public inspection
in the office of the building operator or be posted in a publicly conspicuous
location approved by the Code Enforcement Officer. The inspection and tests
shall be performed at not less than the periodic intervals listed in ASME
A17.1, Appendix N, except where otherwise specified by the authority having
jurisdiction. In buildings equipped with passenger elevators, at least one
elevator shall be maintained in operation at all times when the building is
occupied. Exception: buildings equipped with only one elevator shall be
permitted to have the elevator temporarily out of service for testing or
servicing.
   (h)   Duct Systems. Duct systems shall be maintained free of obstructions
and shall be capable of performing the required function.
(Ord. 33-2017, passed 12-11-2017)
§ 1480.22 FIRE SAFETY.
   (a)   Responsibility. The owner of the premises shall provide and maintain
such fire safety facilities and equipment in compliance with these
requirements. A person shall not occupy as owner-occupant or permit another
person to occupy any premises that do not comply with the requirements of this
chapter.
   (b)   Means of Egress. A safe, continuous and unobstructed path of travel
shall be provided from any point in a building or structure to the public way.
Means of egress shall comply with the Ohio Fire Code. There will be a minimum
of two unobstructed forms of egress (doors) from all residential structures.
The minimum requirement cannot be met by having all means of egress on the same
side of the structure.
      (1)   Aisles. The required width of aisles in accordance with the Ohio
Fire Code shall be unobstructed.
      (2)   Locked Doors. All means of egress doors shall be readily openable
from the side from which egress is to be made without the need for keys,
special knowledge or effort, except where the door hardware conforms to that
permitted by the Residential Code of Ohio or Ohio Building Code, whichever
applies as well as the codes and provisions adopted therein.
      (3)   Emergency Escape Openings. Required emergency escape openings shall
be maintained in accordance with the code in effect at the time of construction
and the following. Required emergency escape and rescue openings shall be
operational from the inside of the room without the use of keys or tools. Bars,
grilles, grates or similar devices are permitted to be placed over emergency
escape and rescue openings provided the minimum net clear opening size complies
with the code that was in effect at the time of construction and such devices
shall be releasable or removable from the inside without the use of a key, tool
or force greater than that which is required for normal operation of the escape
and rescue opening.
   (c)   Fire-Resistance Ratings.
      (1)   Fire-Resistance-Rated Assemblies. The required fire-resistance
rating of fire-resistance- rated walls, fire stops, shaft enclosures,
partitions and floors shall be maintained.
      (2)   Opening Protectives. Required opening protectives shall be
maintained in an operative condition. All fire and smoke stop doors shall be
maintained in operable condition. Fire doors and smoke barrier doors shall not
be blocked, obstructed or otherwise made inoperable.
   (d)   Fire Protection Systems. All systems, devices and equipment to detect
a fire, actuate an alarm, or suppress or control a fire or any combination
thereof shall be maintained in an operable condition at all times in accordance
with the Ohio Fire Code.
      (1)   Automatic Sprinkler Systems. Inspection, testing and maintenance of
automatic sprinkler systems shall be in accordance with the most current
edition of NFPA 25.
      (2)   Smoke Alarms. Single- or multiple-station smoke alarms shall be
installed and maintained in Groups R-2, R-3, R-4 and in dwellings not regulated
in Group R occupancies, regardless of occupant load at all of the following
locations:
         A.   On the ceiling or wall outside of each separate sleeping area in
the immediate vicinity of bedrooms;
         B.   In each room used for sleeping purposes;
         C.   In each story within a dwelling unit, including basements and
cellars but not including crawl spaces and uninhabitable attics. In dwellings
or dwelling units with split levels and without an intervening door between the
adjacent levels, a smoke alarm installed on the upper level shall suffice for
the adjacent lower level provided that the lower level is less than one full
story below the upper level; or
         D.   Single- or multiple-station smoke alarms shall be installed in
other groups in accordance with the Ohio Fire Code.
      (3)   Power Source. In Group R occupancies and in dwellings not regulated
as Group R occupancies, single-station smoke alarms shall receive their primary
power from the building wiring provided that such wiring is served from a
commercial source and shall be equipped with a battery backup. Smoke alarms
shall emit a signal when the batteries are low. Wiring shall be permanent and
without a disconnecting switch other than as required for overcurrent
protection. Exception: smoke alarms are permitted to be solely battery operated
in buildings where no construction is taking place or buildings that are not
served from commercial power source.
      (4)   Interconnection. Where more than one smoke alarm is required to be
installed within an individual dwelling unit in Group R-2, R-3, R-4 and in
dwellings not regulated as Group R occupancies, the smoke alarms shall be
interconnected in such a manner that the activation of one alarm will activate
all of the alarms in the individual unit. The alarm shall be clearly audible in
all bedrooms over background noise levels with all intervening doors closed.
Exception: interconnection is not required in buildings which are not
undergoing alterations, repairs or construction of any kind.
(Ord. 33-2017, passed 12-11-2017)
§ 1480.23 BOARDING STANDARDS.
   (a)   General. All windows and doors shall be boarded in an approved manner
to prevent entry by unauthorized persons and shall be painted to correspond to
the color of the existing structure.
   (b)   Materials.
      (1)   Boarding Sheet Material. Boarding sheet material shall be minimum
1/2- inch thick wood structural panels complying with the Residential Code of
Ohio or Ohio Building Code, whichever applies as well as the codes and
provisions adopted therein.
      (2)   Boarding Framing Material. Boarding framing material shall be
minimum nominal two-inch by four-inch solid sawn lumber complying with the
Residential Code of Ohio or Ohio Building Code, whichever applies as well as
the codes and provisions adopted therein.
      (3)   Boarding Fasteners. Boarding fasteners shall be minimum 3/8-inch
diameter carriage bolts of such a length as required to penetrate the assembly
and as required to adequately attach the washers and nuts. Washers and nuts
shall comply with the Residential Code of Ohio or Ohio Building Code, whichever
applies as well as the codes and provisions adopted therein.
   (c)   Installation. Boarding installation shall be in accordance with
Figures A and B below and §
1480.23  herein.
   Figure A: Boarding of Door or Window
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5a43892f3b1e204d8e6c0594eaf73b0191967548/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2457.png]
 
   Figure B: Boarding of Door Wall
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5a43892f3b1e204d8e6c0594eaf73b0191967548/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2459.png]
 
   (d)   Boarding Sheet Material. The boarding sheet material shall be cut to
fit the door or window opening neatly or shall be cut to provide an equal
overlap at the perimeter of the door or window.
   (e)   Windows. The window shall be opened to allow the carriage bolt to pass
through or the window sash shall be removed and stored. The two-inch by four-
inch strong back framing material shall be cut minimum two inches wider than
the window opening and shall be placed on the inside of the window opening six
inches minimum above the bottom and below the top of the window opening. The
framing and boarding shall be predrilled. The assembly shall be aligned and the
bolts, washers and nuts shall be installed and secured.
   (f)   Door Walls. The door opening shall be framed with minimum two-inch by
four-inch framing material secured at the entire perimeter and vertical members
at not more than 24 inches on center. Blocking shall also be secured at not
more than 48 inches on center vertically. Boarding sheet material shall be
secured with screws and nails alternating every six inches on center.
   (g)   Doors. Doors shall be secured by the same method as for windows or
door openings. One door to the structure shall be available for authorized
entry and shall be secured and locked in an approved manner.
(Ord. 33-2017, passed 12-11-2017)
§ 1480.99 PROSECUTION OF VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (a)   Prosecution of Violation. Any person who violates or fails to comply
with a provision of this chapter shall be prosecuted within the limits provided
by state and local laws. After notice of the violation has been served,
pursuant to §
1480.05 , each day a violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (b)   Violation Penalties. A first violation shall be classified as a minor
misdemeanor. All subsequent violations of any kind shall be classified as a
fourth degree misdemeanor. Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall
be fined as prescribed in §
698.02 . Organizations found in violation of this chapter shall be fined as
prescribed in §
698.04 .
   (c)   Abatement of Violation. The imposition of the penalties herein
prescribed shall not preclude the Village Administrator from instituting
appropriate action to restrain, correct or abate a violation, or to prevent
illegal occupancy of a building, structure or premises, or to stop an illegal
act, conduct, business or utilization of the building, structure or premises.
(Ord. 33-2017, passed 12-11-2017)
PART SIXTEEN: FIRE PREVENTION CODE
      
CHAP. 1610.   OHIO FIRE CODE
CHAPTER 1610: OHIO FIRE CODE
Section
1610.01   Code adopted.
1610.02   Purpose.
1610.03   Application of Code.
1610.04   Enforcement; responsibilities of Municipal Fire Safety Inspector.
1610.05   Compliance required.
1610.06   Posting arson laws.
1610.07   Setting fires which spread.
1610.08   Responsibilities upon discovery of unfriendly fires.
1610.09   Inspections.
1610.10   Sale and use of fire equipment; standards; service and repair of
equipment.
1610.11   File and distribution copies.
1610.12   Conflicts of laws.
1610.99   Penalty.
Cross-reference:
   Fire Department and fire protection, see
Ch. 244
   Fireworks, see §
678.10
   Open burning, see §
660.08
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of technical codes, see R.C. § 731.231
   Fireworks, see R.C. Ch. 3743
   Gasoline, oils and paint, see R.C. Ch. 3741
   Power to regulate against fires, see R.C. §§ 737.27, 3737.22
   Power to regulate elevators, stairways and fire escapes, see R.C. § 715.26
   Right to examine buildings, see R.C. § 3737.14
   State Fire Marshal, see R.C. Ch. 3737
§ 1610.01 CODE ADOPTED.
    There is hereby adopted as the Fire Prevention Code of the village, for the
purpose of prescribing regulations for safeguarding of life and property from
the hazards of fire and explosion and from conditions hazardous to life or
property in the use or occupancy of buildings or premises, that certain code
known as the 2007 Ohio Fire Code based on the International Code Council 2007
Edition as amended by the State of Ohio Fire Marshal, subject to the amendments
provided under the sections of this chapter. At least three copies of the Fire
Prevention Code adopted herein are on file with the Fiscal Officer for
inspection by the public and the Fiscal Officer shall provide copies for
distribution to the public at cost.
§ 1610.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Ohio Fire Code, as adopted in §
1610.01, is to prescribe minimum standards and regulations governing conditions
hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion.
§ 1610.03 APPLICATION OF CODE.
   The Ohio Fire Code, as adopted in §
1610.01, applies to the use of all lands and properties within the village and
such other lands or properties owned by the village which are situated outside
the corporate limits thereof.
§ 1610.04 ENFORCEMENT; RESPONSIBILITIES OF MUNICIPAL FIRE SAFETY INSPECTOR.
   (a)   No person shall serve as a Municipal Fire Safety Inspector unless he
or she has received a certificate issued by the Ohio Superintendent of Public
Instruction under R.C. § 4765.55 evidencing his or her satisfactory completion
of a fire safety inspection training program.
(R.C. § 3737.34)
   (b)   The Municipal Fire Safety Inspector, upon examination or inspection,
shall issue citations when he or she finds conditions as specified in R.C. §
3737.41 which are especially dangerous to the safety of persons, buildings,
premises or property, and shall make any necessary remedial orders in
connection therewith. Citation enforcement may be by use of the procedures
established by R.C. § 3737.42 for hearing on the citation or R.C. § 3737.44 for
injunctive relief or a temporary restraining order and oral order for vacation
of the building or premises.
   (c)   The Municipal Fire Safety Inspector, upon reasonable belief and after
inspection or investigation, shall, with reasonable promptness, issue a
citation to the responsible person for a violation of the Ohio Fire Code or any
order issued by the Ohio Fire Marshal or any Municipal Fire Safety Inspector.
The citation shall fix a reasonable time for abatement of the violation. Each
citation issued under this division (c) shall be prominently posted by the
responsible person, as prescribed by the Ohio Fire Code, at or near each place
a violation referred to in the citation occurs.
   (d)   Upon request of the Municipal Fire Safety Inspector, the Law Director
shall institute and prosecute any necessary action or proceeding to enforce
this chapter or R.C. Ch. 3737.
§ 1610.05 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly violate any provision of the Ohio Fire Code
as adopted herein or any order issued pursuant thereto.
(R.C. § 3737.51(A))
   (b)   No person shall fail to comply with the fire prevention measures or
fire protection activities as prescribed in the Ohio Fire Code or fail to
comply with the village application and plan submission and processing
requirements, including payment of the fees designated therefor.
§ 1610.06 POSTING ARSON LAWS.
   The owner, operator or lessee of any transient residential building shall
post the provisions of R.C. §§ 2909.02 and 2909.03 in a conspicuous place in
each room occupied by guests in such building. The owner, operator or lessee of
any nontransient residential building, institution, school or place of assembly
shall post the provisions of such sections in conspicuous places upon such
premises. No person shall fail to comply with this section.
(R.C. § 3737.61)
§ 1610.07 SETTING FIRES WHICH SPREAD.
   No person shall set, kindle or cause to be set or kindled any fire which,
through his or her negligence, spreads beyond its immediate confines to any
structure, field or wood lot.
(R.C. § 3737.62)
§ 1610.08 RESPONSIBILITIES UPON DISCOVERY OF UNFRIENDLY FIRES.
   (a)   The owner, operator or lessee, an employee of any owner, operator or
lessee, an occupant, and any person in direct control of any building regulated
under the Ohio Basic Building Code, upon the discovery of an unfriendly fire or
upon receiving information that there is an unfriendly fire on the premises,
shall immediately and with all reasonable dispatch and diligence call or
otherwise notify the Columbus Fire Department concerning the fire and shall
spread an alarm immediately to all occupants of the building.
   (b)   For the purposes of this section, “unfriendly fire” means a fire of a
destructive nature as distinguished from a controlled fire intended for a
beneficial purpose.
   (c)   No person shall fail to comply with this section.
(R.C. § 3737.63)
§ 1610.09 INSPECTIONS.
   No person who is not a certified Fire Safety Inspector shall act as such or
hold himself or herself out to be such unless prior to commencing any
inspection function he or she discloses the purpose for which he or she is
making such inspection and the fact that he or she is not employed by any state
or local fire service or agency and that he or she is not acting in an official
capacity for any governmental subdivision or agency.
(R.C. § 3737.64)
§ 1610.10 SALE AND USE OF FIRE EQUIPMENT; STANDARDS; SERVICE AND REPAIR OF
EQUIPMENT.
   (a)   No person shall sell, offer for sale, or use any fire protection or
firefighting equipment that does not meet the minimum standards established by
the Ohio Fire Marshal in the Ohio Fire Code.
   (b)   Except for public and private mobile fire trucks, no person shall
service, test, repair or install for profit any fire protection or firefighting
equipment without a certificate issued by the Ohio Fire Marshal.
(R.C. § 3737.65)
§ 1610.11 FILE AND DISTRIBUTION COPIES.
   Complete copies of the Ohio Fire Code, as adopted in §
1610.01, are on file with the Fiscal Officer for inspection by the public.
Copies are also on file in the County Law Library. In addition, the Fiscal
Officer has copies available for distribution to the public, at cost.
§ 1610.12 CONFLICTS OF LAWS.
   (a)   The Ohio Basic Building Code shall supersede and govern any order,
standard, rule or regulation of the Ohio Fire Code or the Division of State
Fire Marshal, Department of Commerce, in all cases where any such order,
standard, rule or regulation is in conflict with the Ohio Basic Building Code,
except that rules adopted and orders issued by the Fire Marshal pursuant to
R.C. Ch. 3743 prevail in the event of a conflict.
(R.C. § 3781.11(B))
   (b)   In all other cases of conflict between the Ohio Fire Code and any
other village ordinance or technical code adopted thereby, the stricter
standard shall control.
§ 1610.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   Criminal Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates §
1610.05(a) is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 3737.99(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates §§
1610.05(b) or
1610.06 is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 3737.99(C))
      (3)   Whoever violates §§
1610.07 or
1610.09 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 3737.99(D))
      (4)   Whoever violates §§
1610.08 or
1610.10 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 3737.99(E))
   (b)   Civil Penalties.
      (1)   Any person who has received a citation for a serious violation of
the Ohio Fire Code or any order issued pursuant to it shall be assessed a civil
penalty for each such violation.
      (2)   Any person who has received a citation for a violation of the Ohio
Fire Code or any order issued pursuant to it, and such violation is
specifically determined not to be of a serious nature, may be assessed a civil
penalty for each such violation.
      (3)   Any person who fails to correct a violation for which a citation
has been issued, within the period permitted for its correction, may be
assessed a civil penalty for each day during which such failure or violation
continues.
      (4)   Any person who violates any of the posting requirements, as
prescribed by §
1610.04(c), shall be assessed a civil penalty for each violation.
      (5)   Due consideration to the appropriateness of the penalty with
respect to the gravity of the violation, the good faith of the person being
charged and the history of previous violations shall be given whenever a
penalty is assessed under this chapter.
      (6)   For purposes of this section, a serious violation shall be
considered to exist if there is a substantial probability that an occurrence
causing death or serious physical harm to persons could result from a condition
which exists, or from one or more practices, means, methods, operations or
processes which have been adopted or are in use, unless the person did not and
could not, with the exercise of reasonable diligence, know of the presence of
the violation.
      (7)   Civil penalties imposed under this chapter shall be paid to the
Fiscal Officer for deposit into the General Fund. Such penalties may be
recovered in a civil action in the name of the municipality brought in the
Court of Common Pleas.
(R.C. § 3737.51(B) to (H)).
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
EXPLANATION OF TABLES OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   The Codified Ordinances of Minerva Park comprises all ordinances and
resolutions of the Village of a general and permanent nature and new matter
ordained by the Adopting Ordinance. The provisions of such general and
permanent ordinances and resolutions are set forth in full in the Codified
Ordinances.
   References must be made frequently to many special ordinances and
resolutions, particularly those relating to property, such as easements,
vacations, dedications, plat approvals, purchases, sales, leases and the like.
In the following Tables A through J, all such ordinances and resolutions are
listed. These Tables list ordinances and resolutions chronologically by subject
and include both a citation to and a brief description of each ordinance and
resolution.
      Table
         
A.   FRANCHISES
         
B.   EASEMENTS
         
C.   VACATING OF STREETS AND ALLEYS
         
D.   DEDICATION AND PLAT APPROVAL
         
E.   ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL OF REAL PROPERTY
         
F.   LEASE OF REAL PROPERTY
         
G.   STREET GRADE LEVELS AND CHANGE OF STREET NAMES
         
H.   ANNEXATION AND DETACHMENT OF TERRITORY
         
I.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
         
J.   FINANCES AND TAXATION
TABLE A: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
9          7-25-1941   To the Columbus and Southern Ohio Electric Co. for
                       electrical services and facilities.
10         7-25-1941   Fixing rates charged by Columbus and Southern Ohio
                       Electric Co. for five years.
15         5-3-1945    Fixing rates charged by Columbus and Southern Electric
                       Co. for five years.
23         4-13-1950   Fixing rates charged by Columbus and Southern Electric
                       Co. for five years.
59         12-12-1957  To the Ohio Fuel Gas Co. for natural gas service for 15
                       years and fixing rates for five years.
68         11-12-1959  Fixing rates charged by Columbus and Southern Electric
                       Co. for ten years.
79         8-14-1961   Fixing rates charged by Columbus and Southern Electric
                       Co. Repeals Ord. 68.
86         11-12-1962  Fixing and regulating price charged by Ohio Fuel Gas for
                       four years.
93         7-8-1963    Fixing rates charged by Columbus and Southern Ohio
                       Electric Co. for three years. Repeals Ord. 79.
107        8-9-1965    Fixing rates charged by Columbus and Southern Electric
                       Co. Repeals Ord. 93.
120        9-12-1966   To the Columbus and Southern Ohio Electric Co. for
                       electrical services and facilities.
122        10-10-1966  Fixing and regulating rates charged by Columbia Gas of
                       Ohio, Inc., for four years.
134        10-8-1968   Fixing rates charged by Columbus and Southern Ohio
                       Electric Co.
158        7-16-1971   Fixing rates charged by Columbus and Southern Ohio
                       Electric Co.
161        8-14-1972   Fixing rates charged by Columbus and Southern Ohio
                       Electric Co.
206        12-13-1976  Establishing and fixing rate schedules for Columbia Gas
                       of Ohio, Inc., until August 1, 1978.
8-78       5-8-1978    To Coaxial Communications of Minerva Park, Inc., for
                       CATV system.
11-78      9-11-1978   To the Columbus and Southern Ohio Electric Co. for
                       furnishing, operating and maintaining a lighting system.
                       Approving transfer of permission to construct and
                       operate a CATV system from Coaxial Communications of
1-79       2-12-1979   Minerva Park, Inc., to Coaxial Communications of
                       Reynoldsburg, Inc., and thence to Warner Cable of
                       Reston, Inc.
10-79      9-10-1979   Fixing and regulating rates charged by Columbia Gas of
                       Ohio, Inc., for two years. Repeals Ord. 206.
11-79      9-10-1979   Repeals Ord. 8-78.
15-79      11-12-1979  To Warner Cable Corp. (QUBE) to operate a CATV system.
2-84       1-31-1984   Fixing and regulating rates charged by Columbia Gas of
                       Ohio, Inc., for two years.
11-84      7-9-1984    Fixing and regulating rates charged by Columbia Gas of
                       Ohio, Inc., until March 25, 1986.
9-91       10-14-1991  To Columbus Southern Power Co. for electrical services
                       and facilities for 25 years.
Res. 97-25 8-11-1997   To Time Warner Communications-Columbus Division, for
                       cable television service, for 15 years.
Res. 97-26 8-11-1997   To Ameritech New Media, Inc., for cable television
                       service, for 15 years.
                      
 
 
TABLE B: EASEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
74         9-12-1960   Partial release of an easement along the west side of
                       Lot 90 for the installation of public utilities.
                       Accepting easements for the construction and maintenance
Res. 98-7  3-23-1998   of masonry foundations and markers at the Minerva Lake
                       Rd. and Maplewood Dr. entrances to the village.
                       Accepting easement from D.L. Farley for landscaping
Res. 99-17 6-14-1999   purposes around the village entrance marker on Cleveland
                       and Maplewood Aves.
                       Accepting easement from M/I Homes of Central Ohio, LLC
10-2017    4-24-2017   to convey a sidewalk over, across and through a 0.007-
                       acre area of land.
08-2018    6-11-2018   Accepting a fence easement agreement from M/I Homes of
                       Central Ohio, LLC.
17-2018    10-8-2018   Accepting an easement agreement from M/I Homes of
                       Central Ohio, LLC.
12-2019    6-10-2019   Granting a storm sewer easement to Anthony D. and Karen
                       Duong over a portion of village property.
                       Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a temporary access
15-2019    7-8-2019    easement agreement with M/I Homes of Central Ohio, LLC
                       to provide for ingress and egress to and from certain
                       village property.
                      
 
TABLE C: VACATING OF STREETS AND ALLEYS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
64       8-14-1958   Part of Farview Rd.
112      12-29-1965  Part of Jordan Rd.
6-96     6-10-1996   0.173 acres of the Eastbridge Rd. right-of-way, south of
                     Maplewood Dr.
                    
 
 
TABLE D: DEDICATION AND PLAT APPROVAL
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
95       7-15-1963   Plat of Minerva Park North.
111      12-13-1965  Plat of Minerva Park West.
27-2016  12-12-2016  Final plat of Minerva Park Phase I.
19-2017  8-14-2017   Accepting public improvements of Minerva Park Phase I
35-2017  12-18-2017  Accepting public improvement of Minera Park Phase II
11-2018  8-13-2018   Accepting and executing plat for the Minerva Park
                     Subdivision Phases III and IV.
24-2018  12-10-2018  Dedicating a 0.071 acre portion of village property to
                     public use as road right-of-way.
18-2019  9-23-2019   Accepting public improvements in Minerva Park Phase VII.
14-2020  3-22-2021   Accepting an approximately 26.744 acre parcel from M/
                     I Homes.
07-2021  4-26-2021   Accepting an approximately 1.55 acre parcel from M/
                     I Homes.
                    
 
 
TABLE E: ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL OF REAL PROPERTY
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
65       1-8-1959    Authorizing sale of two tracts of land to H.V. and M.A.
                     Pollock.
                     Accepting conveyance of property upon which Sewer
81       10-2-1961   Improvement No. 678, Sewer District Mifflin No. 1, is
                     located.
                    
 
 
TABLE F: LEASE OF REAL PROPERTY
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
25       7-27-1950   Authorizing acquisition by lease of Reserves C, D and G on
                     the plat of the village with C.C. Berry and D. Kerr.
                    
 
 
TABLE G: STREET GRADE LEVELS AND CHANGE OF STREET NAMES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
123      10-10-1966  Jordan Rd. in Minerva Park West to Park Ln., and Jordan
                     Pl. to Park Lane Ct.
                    
 
 
TABLE H: ANNEXATION AND DETACHMENT OF TERRITORY
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
17           3-3-1947    Authorizes annexation of Lots 452 to 528 and Reserves
                         G and H, Minerva Park East Addition.
18           7-19-1947   Accepting annexation of East Minerva Addition.
94           7-8-1963    Accepting application of I.R. Stoltz, et al., for
                         annexation of 26.018 acres.
110          12-13-1965  Accepting application of G.D. Smeck, et al., for
                         annexation of 10.316 acres.
117          6-13-1966   Accepting application of T.L. Johnston, et al., for
                         annexation of 49.418 acres.
163          2-13-1973   Accepting application of K.L. and B.L. Carpenter, et
                         al., for annexation of 38.094 acres.
4-95         6-12-1995   Accepting application of a majority of residents for
                         annexation of 3.02 acres.
Res. 95-14   8-14-1995   Restating acceptance of 3.02 acres set forth in Ord.
                         4-95.
01-2016      2-8-2016    Accepting the annexation of a 99.2 acres.
                         Requesting the removal of recently annexed parcels
Res. 2016-17 7-11-2016   from the Blendon-Westerville Joint Economic
                         Development Zone.
12-2016      9-26-2016   Accepting and dedicating a 1.130 acre parcel of land
                         for road right-of-way.
                        
 
 
TABLE I: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Lots 274 to 277, from a Business District to an Apartment
72       5-13-1960   House District, and Lot 278, from a Dwelling House
                     District to an Apartment House District.
                     Zoning newly annexed parcels abutting Cleveland Ave. as a
199      3-29-1976   Business District and Parcels 3 to 30 as a Dwelling House
                     District.
                     Zoning tract of land at the southeast corner of Farview
5-79     7-9-1979    and E. Dublin-Granville Rds., annexed by Ord. 117, to
                     Business District-Suburban Office.
                     3047 E. Dublin-Granville Rd., from county zoning, Rural
5-81     8-10-1981   Residential, to village zoning, Business District-Suburban
                     Office.
                     3197 E. Dublin-Granville Rd., from county zoning, Rural
8-81     9-14-1981   Residential, to village zoning, Business District-Suburban
                     Office.
                     3.857 acres of land owned by A. Heil, et al., from county
9-87     5-21-1987   zoning, Rural Residential, to village zoning, Business
                     District.
2-97     6-9-1997    Zoning 3.02 acres of recently annexed property as R-
                     3 Suburban Residential District.
                     0.801 acre tract of land at the southwest corner of
2-2002   6-10-2002   Wexterville Rd. and east of Dublin-Granville Rd., from NC
                     to CC.
                     Approving a final development plan for homes on 102 acres
02-2016  2-8-2016    located at 2955 Minerva Lake Rd. and amending the zoning
                     map to PRD.
                     Approving an amended Planned Residential District (PRD)
12-2018  8-13-2018   zoning text for M/I Homes of Central Ohio LLC for 102+/
                     - acres located at 2955 Minerva Lake Road.
                     Approving an amended Planned Residential District (PRD)
23-2019  11-11-2019  zoning text for MI Homes of Central Ohio LLC for 102 +/
                     - acres located at 2955 Minerva Park Road.
                    
 
 
TABLE J: FINANCES AND TAXATION
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
-            4-11-2005   Sewer agreement.
Res. 600-07  7-10-2007   Intergovernmental agreement with Franklin County.
14-2007      12-10-2007  Sewer agreement.
Res. 2010-09 5-10-2010   Contract with American Legal Publishing Corporation.
Res. 2010-11 7-12-2010   Contract with Franklin County Prosecutor.
Res. 2012-28 11-12-2012  Contract for plumbing inspections.
Res. 2013-15 6-10-2013   Contract for a water service agreement.
07-2015      4-13-2015   Establishing the Law Enforcement Trust Fund.
23-2015      11-9-2015   Authorizing a Capital Projects Fund.
04-2016      3-14-2016   Creating a residential tax increment financing
                         incentive district.
Res. 2016-04 3-14-2016   Authorizing the sale of municipally owned property.
Res. 2016-05 3-14-2016   Execution of a contract with Resources International,
                         Inc.
Res. 2016-09 3-28-2016   Execution of a contract with Infintech Financial
                         Technologies, LLC.
Res. 2016-15 5-23-2016   Execution of a contract with Comresource, Inc.
Res. 2016-16 5-23-2016   Payment on a contract.
Res. 2016-22 6-27-2016   Authorizing the payment from top line armor systems.
Res. 2016-21 7-25-2016   Authorizing the transfer of the residual balance of
                         several funds.
Res. 2016-27 9-12-2016   Contract with Flowline, LLC.
Res. 2016-26 9-26-2016   Contract for leaf pickup.
Res. 2016-28 9-26-2016   Contract for the purchase of a police vehicle.
Res. 2016-31 9-26-2016   Towing agreements.
Res. 2016-29 10-10-2016  Advance to the Minerva Lake Road Project Fund.
Res. 2016-30 10-10-2016  Contracts with CH2M Hill.
16-2016      10-10-2016  Establishing the Minerva Lake Road Project Fund.
20-2016      10-10-2016  Establishing the Minerva Lakes Improvement Fund.
Res. 2016-33 11-14-2016  Contract with CH2M Hill.
Res. 2016-34 11-14-2016  Contract with EMH&T.
Res. 2016-35 11-14-2016  Contract with American Legal Publishing Corporation.
Res. 2016-36 11-14-2016  Contract with the Ohio Attorney General.
Res. 2016-39 11-14-2016  Transfer of funds.
Res. 2016-40 12-12-2016  Execution of multiple contracts.
Res. 2018-04 3-12-2018   Purchase of police vehicle equipment.
Res. 2018-06 3-26-2018   Contract with Flowline, LLC.
Res. 2018-07 4-9-2018    Contract with Amick Municipal Consulting Group.
Res. 2018-08 5-21-2018   Contract with Resource International, Inc.
                         Authorizing a partial return of advance to the general
Res. 2018-12 6-25-2018   fund from Minerva Lake Road project and dam and lake
                         improvement funds and converting part of the previous
                         advances to a transfer.
Res. 2018-15 7-9-2018    Right of entry cooperative agreement with James
                         Cannon.
Res. 2018-19 9-24-2018   Accepting amounts and rates as determined by the
                         Budget Commission.
Res. 2018-20 9-24-2018   Contract with McKinney Landscaping.
Res. 2018-21 11-19-2018  Various recurring contracts necessary for the
                         continuous operation of the Village.
Res. 2018-24 12-10-2018  Transfer of the residual balance of the EMS Vehicle
                         Acquisition Bond Fund.
Res. 2018-25 11-19-2018  Contract with Trans Associates.
Res. 2018-26 1-14-2019   Contract with StateWide Emergency Products.
Res. 2019-24 9-23-2019   Accepting amounts and rates as determined by the
                         Budget Commission.
Res. 2019-28 11-18-2019  Various recurring contracts necessary for the
                         continuous operation of the Village.
Res. 2020-03 2-10-2020   Contract for mosquito spraying.
Res. 2020-05 2-24-2020   Contract with Municode.
Res. 2020-07 3-9-2020    Contract with MKSK Studio Inc.
Res. 2020-12 5-11-2020   Authorizing request for a certification and estimate
                         of revenue from the renewal tax levy.
Res. 2020-13 5-18-2020   Transfer of funds.
Res. 2020-14 5-18-2020   Contract with Flowline, LLC.
Res. 2020-15 6-15-2020   Adopting tax budget.
Res. 2020-16 6-22-2020   Declaring necessity for and submitting the question of
                         a renewal tax levy.
Res. 2020-17 6-22-2020   Placing the issue on the ballot for a renewal tax
                         levy.
Res. 2020-23 7-27-2020   Contract for 2020 sewer improvements project.
Res. 2020-24 7-27-2020   Contract for waste collection services.
Res. 2021-09 3-22-2021   Requesting a certification and estimate of revenue for
                         a renewal tax levy.
Res. 2021-13 4-26-2021   Declaring necessity for and submitting the question of
                         a renewal tax levy.
Res. 2021-14 4-26-2021   Placing renewal tax levy on the ballot.
Res. 2021-17 6-14-2021   Authorizing Phase 2 of the agreement with Garmann
                         Miller & Associates Architects and Engineers.
Res. 2021-19 6-28-2021   Adopting tax budget.
Res. 2021-23 6-21-2021   Declaring necessity for a renewal levy of a tax and
                         requesting certification to Council.
Res. 2021-24 6-21-2021   Authorizing an advance to the Village Facilities Fund
                         from the General Fund.
Res. 2021-25 6-28-2021   Submitting the question of a renewal tax levy to the
                         electors.
Res. 2021-30 9-14-2021   Accepting amounts and rates as determined by the
                         Budget Commission.
Res. 2021-32 11-16-2021  Various recurring contracts necessary for the
                         continuous operation of the Village.
Res. 2021-33 10-26-2021  Contract with Resources International, Inc.
14-2021      11-9-2021   Contract with FBT Project Finance Advisors, LLC.
Res. 2022-02 2-24-2022   Contract with Resources International, Inc.
Res. 2022-04 1-27-2022   Accepting amounts and rates as determined by the
                         Budget Commission.
Res. 2022-06 2-24-2022   Contract with the City of Columbus for fire and EMS
                         services.
                        
 
COMPARATIVE SECTION TABLE
References to Ohio Revised Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO OHIO REVISED CODE
R.C. Section Code Section
R.C. Section                        Code Section
1.02                                202.02
1.05                                202.02
1.14                                202.03
1.15                                202.03
1.23                                202.05
1.42                                202.03
1.43                                202.03
1.44                                202.02
1.45                                202.03
1.50                                202.07
1.55                                202.05
1.57                                202.04
1.58                                202.04
1.59                                202.02
128.01(A)                           608.19
128.32(E)-(G)                       608.19
128.99(A),(B)                       608.19
701.01                              202.02
715.67                              202.99
718.04                              880.02
723.011                             660.05
901.51                              642.04
901.99(A)                           642.04
925.62                              618.06
925.99(B)                           618.06
951.02                              618.01
951.99                              618.01
955.10                              618.095
955.11(A)                           618.01
955.21                              618.08
955.22                              618.01
955.222                             618.01
955.24                              618.09
955.25                              618.10
955.54                              618.15
955.99(B)                           618.09 -
                                    618.10
955.99(E)                           618.01,
                                    618.08
955.99(F)                           618.01
955.99(G)                           618.01
955.99(H)                           618.01
955.99(J)                           618.01
955.99(L)                           618.01
955.99(M)                           618.01
955.99(N)                           618.01
955.99(O)                           618.15
955.99(P)                           618.01
955.99(Q)                           618.01
959.01                              618.02
959.02                              618.03
959.03                              618.04
959.13                              618.04
959.131                             618.04
959.21                              618.16
959.99(B)                           618.03
959.99(C)                           618.04
959.99(D)                           618.04
959.99(D)                           618.16
959.99(E)                           618.04
959.99(E)(3)                        618.02
959.99(E)(6)                        618.16
1349.17                             672.12
1349.99                             672.12
1546.01                             448.01
1547.02                             448.01
1547.03                             448.02
1547.04                             448.03
1547.05                             448.04
1547.051                            448.04
1547.052                            448.04
1547.06                             448.05
1547.07                             448.05
1547.071                            448.07
1547.072                            448.05
1547.08                             448.08
1547.09                             448.09
1547.10                             448.39
1547.11                             448.10
1547.111                            448.11
1547.12                             448.12
1547.132                            448.05
1547.14                             448.13
1547.15                             448.13
1547.16                             448.15
1547.18                             448.16
1547.19                             448.17
1547.20                             448.18
1547.21                             448.18
1547.22                             448.20
1547.23                             448.21
1547.24                             448.22
1547.25                             448.23
1547.251                            448.24
1547.26                             448.25
1547.27                             448.26
1547.28                             448.26
1547.29                             448.28
1547.30                             448.29
1547.301                            448.29
1547.302                            448.29
1547.303                            448.29
1547.304                            448.29
1547.31(A)-(H)                      448.30
1547.32                             448.32
1547.33                             448.32
1547.34                             448.32
1547.38                             448.31
1547.39                             448.32
1547.40                             448.32
1547.41                             448.32
1547.53                             448.36
1547.531                            448.37
1547.533                            448.37
1547.59                             448.39
1547.63                             448.40
1547.65                             448.44
1547.66                             448.38
1547.69                             448.45
1547.92                             448.46
                                    448.08,
1547.99(B)                          448.11,
                                    448.38,
                                    448.39
                                    448.02 -
                                    448.05,
                                    448.08,
                                    448.09,
                                    448.13,
                                    448.15 -
                                    448.18,
1547.99(C)                          448.20 -
                                    448.22,
                                    448.24 -
                                    448.29,
                                    448.32,
                                    448.36,
                                    448.37,
                                    448.39,
                                    448.99
1547.99(D)                          448.05,
                                    448.12
1547.99(E)                          448.05,
                                    448.12
                                    448.23,
                                    448.29,
1547.99(F)                          448.31,
                                    448.32,
                                    448.44 -
                                    448.46
1547.99(G)                          448.10
1547.99(H)                          448.29
1547.99(J)                          448.30
1547.99(K)                          448.04
1547.99(L)                          448.04,
                                    448.99
1548.01(B),(C)                      448.41
1548.03                             448.41
1548.05                             448.42
1548.18                             448.43
1548.99(A)                          448.43
2901.01                             606.01
2901.02                             606.01
2901.03                             606.03
2901.04                             606.03
2901.09                             606.13
2901.11                             606.05
2901.13                             606.06
2901.21                             606.07
2901.22                             606.08
2901.23                             606.09
2901.24                             606.10
2903.05                             636.01
2903.06                             434.10
2903.08(A)(3),(C)(3),(D)(3),(E)-(G) 434.10
2903.09                             636.001
2903.10                             636.23
2903.13                             636.02
2903.14                             636.03
2903.16                             636.23
2903.21                             636.04
2903.211                            636.05
2903.22                             636.06
2903.31                             636.20
2903.311(B), (C)                    636.20
2905.03                             636.07
2905.12                             636.10
2907.01                             666.01
2907.04                             666.02
2907.06                             666.03
2907.08                             666.05
2907.09                             666.06
2907.10                             666.05
2907.23                             666.07
2907.231                            666.07
2907.24                             666.08
2907.241                            666.085
2907.25                             666.09
2907.26                             666.10
2907.31                             666.10
2907.311                            666.12
2907.33                             666.15
2907.35                             666.16
2907.36                             666.17
2907.37                             666.18
2907.38                             666.18
2907.39                             666.20
2907.40                             666.21
2909.01                             642.01
2909.03                             642.06
2909.06                             642.08
2909.07                             642.09
2909.08(A)-(E)                      678.11
2909.09                             642.08
2909.10                             642.13
2909.101                            642.13
2909.11(B)-(D)                      642.07
2909.31                             608.18
2911.21                             642.10
2911.211                            642.11
2911.23                             642.10
2911.32                             672.05
2913.01                             642.01
2913.02                             672.01
2913.03                             672.08
2913.04                             642.03
2913.07                             672.24
2913.11                             672.09
2913.21                             672.10
2913.31(B),(C)(2)                   672.12
2913.32                             672.125
2913.33                             672.13
2913.40                             672.22
2913.401                            672.22
2913.41                             672.14
2913.42                             672.15
2913.43                             672.16
2913.44                             672.17
2913.441                            608.15
2913.45                             672.18
2913.47                             672.20
2913.48                             672.21
2913.51                             672.02
2913.61(B)-(E)                      672.03
2913.71                             672.04
2913.72                             672.045
2915.01                             630.01
2915.02(A)-(G),(K)                  630.02
2915.03                             630.03
2915.04                             630.04
2915.05                             630.05
2915.06                             630.14
2915.061                            630.14
2915.09                             630.06
2915.091                            630.10
2915.092                            630.11
2915.093                            630.12
2915.094                            630.13
2915.10                             630.07
2915.11                             630.07
2915.12                             630.09
2915.13                             630.12
2915.14                             630.15
2917.01                             648.11
2917.03                             648.01
2917.031                            648.01
2917.04                             648.02
2917.05                             648.03
2917.12                             648.05
2917.13                             648.06
2917.21                             636.15
2917.211                            666.24
2917.31                             648.07
2917.32                             648.08
2917.40                             636.19
2917.41                             672.06
2919.18                             636.25
2919.21                             636.11
2919.22(A)-(E),(H)                  636.12
2919.23                             636.13
2919.24                             636.14
2919.25                             636.18
2919.27                             636.05
2921.01                             606.01
2921.13                             608.01
2921.14                             608.02
2921.21                             608.03
2921.22                             608.04
2921.23                             608.05
2921.29                             608.18
2921.31                             608.06
2921.32                             608.07
2921.321                            642.12
2921.33                             608.08
2921.331(A)-(C),(E),(F)             608.09
2921.36                             612.09
2921.42                             608.10
2921.43                             608.10
2921.44                             608.12
2921.45                             608.13
2921.51                             608.14
2921.52(A)-(D)                      608.20
2923.02                             606.11
2923.03                             606.12
2923.11                             678.01,
                                    678.10
2923.12                             678.02
2923.1211(B),(C)                    678.14
2923.1212                           678.14
2923.122(C)-(G)                     678.13
2923.126                            678.14
2923.131                            678.025
2923.15                             678.03
2923.16                             678.04
2923.162                            678.095
2923.18                             678.05
2923.19                             678.06
2923.20                             678.07
2923.201                            678.15
2923.211                            678.085
2923.24                             678.12
2925.01                             624.01
2925.03(A)-(C), (I)                 624.02
2925.04(A), (B), (C)(5), (G)        624.025
2925.11                             624.03
2925.12                             624.04
2925.13(A)-(C), (F)                 624.05
2925.14                             624.06
2925.141                            624.06
2925.31                             624.07
2925.32(B)(4),(D)(2),(F),(G)        624.073
2925.33                             624.076
2925.34                             624.16
2925.36(A)-(C)                      624.08
2925.37(A),(G)                      624.09
2925.50                             624.13
2925.51                             624.12
2925.511                            624.12
2925.55                             624.15
2925.56                             624.15
2925.57                             624.15
2925.58                             624.15
2925.62                             624.17
2927.02                             636.21
2927.021                            636.21
2927.022                            636.21
2927.023                            636.21
2927.024                            636.21
2927.03                             636.23
2927.11                             642.05
2927.12                             636.21
2927.15                             636.25
2927.17                             666.21
2929.21                             698.02
2929.22                             698.03
2929.23                             666.99
2929.24                             698.02
2929.25                             698.02
2929.26                             698.02
2929.27                             698.02
2929.28                             698.02
2929.31                             698.04
2929.41                             698.05
2935.041                            608.17
2935.36(E)                          698.01
2981.07                             672.24
2981.11                             608.16
2981.12                             608.16
2981.13(A)                          608.16
3701.81                             660.02
3701.82                             660.01
3701.99(B)                          660.01
3701.99(C)                          660.02
3715.05                             624.15
3715.06                             624.15
3716.11                             636.17
3716.99(C)                          636.17
3719.08(A),(E)                      624.13
3719.172(A),(B)                     624.14
3719.19                             624.17
3719.99(C)                          624.13
3719.99(E)                          624.14
3737.34                             1610.04
3737.51(A)                          1610.05
3737.51(B) to (H)                   1610.99
3737.61                             1610.06
3737.62                             1610.06
3737.63                             1610.08
3737.64                             1610.08
3737.65                             1610.10
3737.99(B)                          1610.99
3737.99(C)                          1610.99
3737.99(D)                          1610.99
3737.99(E)                          1610.99
3743.01                             678.10
3743.45                             678.10
3743.54                             678.10
3743.60(E)-(L)                      678.10
3743.61(E)-(L)                      678.10
3743.63                             678.10
3743.64                             678.10
3743.65(A)-(E)                      678.10
3743.66                             678.10
3743.68(B)                          678.10
3743.80                             678.10
3743.99(C),(D)                      678.10
3767.13                             660.04
3767.29                             660.06
3767.32                             660.03
3767.99(C)                          660.03,
                                    660.04
3767.99(B)                          660.06,
                                    1610.12
3781.55                             666.06
3791.01                             1420.02
3791.02                             1420.02
3791.03                             1420.02
3791.031                            660.13
3791.04                             1420.02
4301.01                             612.01
4301.22(B)                          612.03
4301.22(A)(2)                       612.10
4301.244                            612.01
4301.62                             612.07
4301.63                             612.02
4301.631                            612.10
4301.633                            612.02
4301.634                            612.02
4301.637                            612.06
4301.64                             612.04
4301.65                             612.11
4301.69                             612.02
4301.70                             612.06
                                    612.06,
4301.99(A)                          612.07,
                                    612.11
4301.99(B)                          612.04,
                                    612.10
4301.99(C)                          612.02
4301.99(D),(H)                      612.03
4301.99(E)                          612.02,
                                    612.10
4301.99(F)                          612.02
4301.99(I)                          612.02
4301.99(J)                          612.11
4303.202(D)(2)                      612.08
4303.208(C)                         612.08
4303.25                             612.04
4303.99(D)                          612.08
4501.01(LL)                         Ch. 402
4501.01(TT)                         416.12
4503.11(A)                          436.09
4503.111                            436.09
4503.11(D)                          436.09
4503.12(A)                          436.09
4503.12(D)                          436.09
4503.21(A),(B)                      436.09
4503.21(C)                          436.09
4505.18                             436.08
4506.01                             442.01
4506.011                            442.02
4506.04(A),(B)                      442.03
4506.04(C)                          442.03
4506.10(A),(E)                      442.04
4506.12(I)                          442.03
4506.12(J)                          442.03
4506.15                             442.05
4506.19                             442.06
4506.20                             442.07
4506.23                             442.07
4507.02(A)(1)                       436.01
4507.02(A)(2)                       436.02
4507.03                             436.01
4507.04                             436.01
4507.05(F),(I)                      436.03
4507.071(B)-(J)                     436.035
4507.213                            436.01
4507.30                             436.04
4507.35                             436.06
4507.99                             436.02
4509.102                            608.01
4510.037(J)                         436.071
                                    436.071,
4510.04                             436.073,
                                    436.074,
                                    436.075
4510.05                             408.02
4510.11                             436.071
4510.111                            436.071
4510.12                             436.072
4510.14                             436.073
4510.16                             436.074
4510.21                             436.075
4510.44                             434.011
4511.01                             402.01
4511.03                             432.19
4511.031                            414.10
4511.04                             404.03
4511.041                            404.04
4511.042                            404.04
4511.05                             404.04
4511.051                            412.05
4511.12                             414.01
4511.121                            414.01
4511.13                             414.03
4511.131                            414.04
4511.132                            432.16
4511.14                             414.05
4511.16                             414.07
4511.17                             414.08
4511.18                             414.09
4511.181                            434.01
4511.191(A)                         434.01
4511.19(A)-(F)                      434.01
4511.191(D)                         434.01
4511.19(G) - (M)                    434.01
4511.192                            434.01
4511.194                            434.01
4511.20                             434.02
4511.201                            434.02
4511.202                            434.08
4511.203                            436.05
4511.205                            432.45
4511.21(A)-(G), (O), (P)            434.03
4511.211                            434.04
4511.213                            432.201
4511.214                            434.12
4511.215                            434.12
4511.216                            434.12
4511.22                             434.06
4511.23                             434.07
4511.24                             434.08
4511.25                             432.01
4511.251                            434.08
4511.26                             432.02
4511.27                             432.03
4511.28                             432.04
4511.29                             432.05
4511.30                             432.06
4511.31                             432.07
4511.32                             432.31
4511.33                             432.08
4511.34                             432.09
4511.35                             432.31
4511.36                             432.10
4511.37                             432.11
4511.38                             432.12
4511.39                             432.13
4511.40                             432.14
4511.41                             432.15
4511.42                             432.17
4511.43                             432.18
4511.431                            432.21
4511.432                            432.22
4511.44                             432.21
4511.441                            416.09
4511.45                             432.20
4511.451                            432.23
4511.452                            416.08
4511.454                            432.20
4511.46                             416.01
4511.47                             416.02
4511.48                             416.03
4511.481                            416.10
4511.49                             416.04
4511.491                            416.11
4511.50                             416.05
4511.51                             416.06
4511.511                            416.07
4511.512                            416.12
4511.513                            416.13
4511.514                            416.14
4511.52                             444.01
4511.521                            444.06
4511.522                            444.12
4511.53                             444.02
4511.54                             444.03
4511.55                             444.04
4511.56                             444.05
4511.60                             432.29
4511.61                             432.34
4511.62                             432.33
4511.63                             432.34
4511.64                             432.35
4511.65                             414.02
4511.66                             452.01
4511.661                            452.07
4511.67                             452.02
4511.68                             452.03
4511.681                            452.06
4511.69                             452.04
4511.70                             432.25,
                                    452.08
4511.701                            440.08
4511.71                             432.26
4511.711                            432.24
4511.712                            432.36
4511.713                            432.41
4511.714                            432.26
4511.72                             432.27
4511.73                             432.28
4511.74                             412.01
4511.75                             432.32
4511.79                             442.09
4511.81(A)-(H),(K),(L)              438.29
4511.82                             432.42
4511.84                             432.43
4511.85                             440.11
4511.99                             408.02
4511.991                            408.02
4513.02(A),(H)                      438.01
4513.021                            438.26
4513.03                             438.02
4513.04                             438.03
4513.05                             438.04
4513.06                             438.05
4513.07                             438.06
4513.071                            438.26
4513.08                             438.07
4513.09                             438.08
4513.10                             438.09
4513.11                             438.10
4513.11(I)                          438.10
4513.111                            438.10
4513.111(E)                         438.10
4513.12                             438.11
4513.13                             438.12
4513.14                             438.13
4513.15                             438.14
4513.16                             438.15
4513.17                             438.16
4513.171                            438.165
4513.182                            438.17
4513.19                             438.18
4513.20                             438.19
4513.21                             438.20
4513.22                             438.21
4513.23                             438.22
4513.24                             438.23
4513.241(C)-(J), (K)                438.24
4513.263                            438.30
4513.29                             440.04
4513.30                             438.25
4513.31                             440.05
4513.32                             440.05
4513.34                             440.01
4513.36                             404.02
4513.361                            404.09
4513.60                             452.06
4513.601                            452.06
4513.61                             452.05
4513.64                             452.05
4513.65                             660.07
4513.66                             436.14
4513.68                             436.14
                                    438.09,
                                    438.17,
                                    438.19,
4513.99                             438.25,
                                    440.01,
                                    440.04,
                                    440.05
4519.01                             446.01
4519.02                             446.08
4519.20                             446.02
4519.40                             446.03
4519.401                            434.11
4519.41                             446.04
4519.44                             446.05
4519.46                             446.06
4519.48                             446.07
4519.66                             446.09
4549.02                             436.10
4549.021                            436.12
4549.03                             436.13
4549.05                             404.01
4549.08                             436.10
4549.081(B)                         414.01
4549.081(C)                         414.01
4549.11(A)                          436.09
4549.11(B)                          436.09
4549.12(A)                          436.09
4549.12(B)                          436.09
4549.20                             438.31
4933.18                             672.06
4933.19                             672.06
5577.05                             440.02
5577.06                             440.02
5577.11                             440.03
5577.15                             440.05
5577.99(C)                          440.02
5577.99(E)                          440.03
5589.08                             440.07
5589.081                            440.07
5589.12                             642.02
5589.99(B)                          440.07,
                                    642.02
                                    
 
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
95-14    8-14-1995   TSO H
96-2     1-8-1996    1070.01
97-25    8-11-1997   TSO A
97-26    8-11-1997   TSO A
97-27    11-10-1997  1062.06
97-23    11-13-1997  1062.06
98-7     3-23-1998   TSO B
99-17    6-14-1999   TSO B
2007-05  2-11-2007   204.02
600-07   7-10-2007   TSO J
2008-38  12-8-2008   204.03
2010-09  5-10-2010   TSO J
2010-11  7-12-2010   TSO J
2012-28  11-12-2012  TSO J
2013-15  6-10-2013   TSO J
2016-04  3-14-2016   TSO J
2016-05  3-14-2016   TSO J
2016-09  3-28-2016   TSO J
2016-15  5-23-2016   TSO J
2016-16  5-23-2016   TSO J
2016-22  6-27-2016   TSO J
2016-17  7-11-2016   TSO H
2016-21  7-25-2016   TSO J
2016-27  9-12-2016   TSO J
2016-26  9-26-2016   TSO J
2016-28  9-26-2016   TSO J
2016-31  9-26-2016   TSO J
2016-29  10-10-2016  TSO J
2016-30  10-10-2016  TSO J
2016-33  11-14-2016  TSO J
2016-34  11-14-2016  TSO J
2016-35  11-14-2016  TSO J
2016-36  11-14-2016  TSO J
2016-39  11-14-2016  TSO J
2016-40  12-12-2016  TSO J
2018-04  3-12-2018   TSO J
2018-06  3-26-2018   TSO J
2018-07  4-9-2018    TSO J
2018-08  5-21-2018   TSO J
2018-12  6-25-2018   TSO J
2018-15  7-9-2018    TSO J
2018-19  9-24-2019   TSO J
2018-20  9-24-2018   TSO J
2018-21  11-19-2018  TSO J
2018-24  12-10-2018  TSO J
2018-25  11-19-2018  TSO J
2018-26  1-14-2019   TSO J
2019-24  9-23-2019   TSO J
2019-28  11-18-2019  TSO J
2020-03  2-10-2020   TSO J
2020-05  2-24-2020   TSO J
2020-07  3-9-2020    TSO J
2020-12  5-11-2020   TSO J
2020-13  5-18-2020   TSO J
2020-14  5-18-2020   TSO J
2020-15  6-15-2020   TSO J
2020-16  6-22-2020   TSO J
2020-17  6-22-2020   TSO J
2020-23  7-27-2020   TSO J
2020-24  7-27-2020   TSO J
2021-09  3-22-2021   TSO J
2021-13  4-26-2021   TSO J
2021-14  4-26-2021   TSO J
2021-17  6-14-2021   TSO J
2021-19  6-28-2021   TSO J
2021-23  6-21-2021   TSO J
2021-24  6-21-2021   TSO J
2021-25  6-28-2021   TSO J
2021-30  9-14-2021   TSO J
2021-32  11-16-2021  TSO J
2021-33  10-26-2021  TSO J
2022-02  2-24-2022   TSO J
2022-04  1-27-2022   TSO J
2022-06  2-24-2022   TSO J
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
5-89     5-8-1889    1214.04
9        7-25-1941   TSO A
10       7-25-1941   TSO A
15       5-3-1945    TSO A
17       3-3-1947    TSO H
18       7-19-1947   TSO H
23       4-13-1950   TSO A
25       7-27-1950   TSO F
42       3-14-1956   1042.05
                     1440.02 -
                     1440.04,
                     1442.02 -
46       10-11-1956  1442.05,
                     1466.01 -
                     1466.04,
                     1466.06 -
                     1466.08
59       12-12-1957  TSO A
60       2-13-1958   1466.07
64       8-14-1958   TSO C
65       1-8-1959    TSO E
68       11-12-1959  TSO A
72       5-13-1960   TSO I
74       9-12-1960   TSO B
73       10-10-1960  1476.01 -
                     1476.09
79       8-14-1961   TSO A
81       10-2-1961   TSO E
86       11-12-1962  TSO A
93       7-8-1963    TSO A
94       7-8-1963    TSO H
95       7-15-1963   TSO D
107      8-9-1965    TSO A
110      12-13-1965  TSO H
111      12-13-1965  TSO D
112      12-29-1965  TSO C
116      5-9-1966    1466.05
117      6-13-1966   TSO H
120      9-12-1966   TSO A
122      10-10-1966  TSO A
123      10-10-1966  TSO G
134      10-8-1968   TSO A
148      5-12-1970   452.13
156      4-12-1971   242.13
158      7-16-1971   TSO A
160      3-13-1972   648.09
161      8-14-1972   TSO A
163      2-13-1973   TSO H
171      4-8-1974    1460.01 -
                     1460.05
199      3-29-1976   TSO I
206      12-13-1976  TSO A
204      6-13-1977   1442.06
5-78     3-13-1978   444.11
8-78     5-8-1978    TSO A
11-78    9-11-1978   TSO A
12-78    11-13-1978  452.16
1-79     2-12-1979   TSO A
5-79     7-9-1979    TSO I
10-79    9-10-1979   TSO A
11-79    9-10-1979   TSO A
15-79    11-12-1979  TSO A
                     242.01 -
10-80    6-9-1980    242.05,
                     242.08
4-81     7-13-1981   660.15
5-81     8-10-1981   TSO I
8-81     9-14-1981   TSO I
1-82     3-8-1982    242.08
2-82     3-22-1982   1068.01 -
                     1068.04
                     1062.03 -
12-82    11-8-1982   1062.06,
                     1062.99
9-83     4-11-1983   804.01 -
                     804.06
2-84     1-31-1984   TSO A
7-84     6-11-1984   204.01
11-84    7-9-1984    TSO A
2-85     1-8-1985    290.01
7-85     2-11-1985   1284.01 -
                     1284.03
5-85     3-11-1985   236.01 -
                     236.03
                     1202.02 -
14-85    11-11-1985  1202.05,
                     1202.07
1-86     3-10-1986   242.07
9-87     5-21-1987   TSO I
3-88     4-11-1988   1444.01
5-88     9-12-1988   1442.10 -
                     1442.14
4-89     4-10-1989   1202.04
                     1210.01 -
                     1210.03,
                     1212.01 -
                     1212.05,
                     1212.99,
                     1214.01 -
                     1214.08,
                     1216.02,
                     1216.04 -
                     1216.10,
                     1218.01 -
                     1218.19,
                     1220.01 -
                     1220.06,
                     1230.01 -
                     1230.05,
                     1232.01 -
                     1232.03,
                     1234.01,
                     1236.01 -
                     1236.03,
                     1238.01 -
                     1238.05,
                     1240.01 -
                     1240.03,
                     1242.01,
                     1242.02,
                     1244.01 -
                     1244.03,
                     1246.01 -
                     1246.03,
                     1248.01 -
                     1248.05,
                     1250.01 -
5-89     5-8-1989    1250.03,
                     1252.01 -
                     1252.03,
                     1254.01 -
                     1254.03,
                     1256.01 -
                     1256.03,
                     1258.01 -
                     1258.03,
                     1260.01 -
                     1260.03,
                     1262.01 -
                     1262.03,
                     1264.01 -
                     1264.03,
                     1266.01 -
                     1266.03,
                     1268.01 -
                     1268.03,
                     1270.01,
                     1270.02,
                     1272.01 -
                     1272.07,
                     1274.01 -
                     1274.05,
                     1274.99,
                     1276.01 -
                     1276.03,
                     1278.01 -
                     1278.08,
                     1280.01 -
                     1280.10,
                     1282.01 -
                     1282.13,
                     1284.03
9-89     10-9-1989   1202.05
5-91     6-10-1991   1202.01
9-91     10-14-1991  TSO A
4-92     3-9-1992    1020.01
11-92    9-14-1992   242.07
12-92    9-14-1992   1064.01
13-92    2-8-1993    242.11
2-93     10-11-1993  1066.01 -
                     1066.06
3-93     10-11-1993  1464.01 -
                     1464.03
1-94     5-9-1994    1202.01
2-94     7-11-1994   222.02,
                     222.03
7-94     11-14-1994  648.10
10-94    11-14-1994  242.12
2-95     3-13-1995   242.03
4-95     6-12-1995   TSO H
3-95     7-10-1995   290.02
2-96     5-13-1996   242.10
4-96     5-13-1996   1267.01 -
                     1267.03
6-96     6-10-1996   TSO C
2-97     6-9-1997    TSO I
3-97     7-14-1997   1272.04
5-97     7-14-1997   1478.01 -
                     1478.13
6-97     7-14-1997   1477.01 -
                     1477.17
9-97     8-11-1997   808.01 -
                     808.27
7-97     10-13-1997  1062.02
4-99     5-10-1999   222.01
2-2002   6-10-2002   TSO I
3-2002   10-14-2002  1230.03
4-2002   10-14-2002  1232.99
5-2002   10-14-2002  1272.04
6-2002   10-14-2002  1282.08
02-2003  7-14-2003   220.01
4-2004   8-9-2004    1442.08
5-2004   8-9-2004    1442.09
09-2004  11-8-2004   230.01
–      4-11-2005   TSO J
02-2005  5-9-2005    248.01 -
                     248.11
01-2006  5-8-2006    1064.02
5-2007   5-7-2007    246.01
7-2007   5-7-2007    246.02
8-2007   5-7-2007    246.03
1-2007   6-11-2007   1259.01 -
                     1259.07
12-2007  6-11-2007   1446.01,
                     1446.02
11-2007  7-9-2007    244.01 -
                     244.12
13-2007  11-12-2007  666.23
14-2007  12-10-2007  TSO J
01-2008  - -         808.26
                     860.01 -
03-2008  8-10-2009   860.11,
                     860.99
02-2010  7-12-2010   1442.07
04-2010  12-13-2010  432.44
                     1422.01 -
01-2011  3-14-2011   1422.03,
                     1422.99
4-2011   6-13-2011   234.01 -
                     234.07
5-2012   2-11-2013   618.17
                     1238.04,
08-2013  9-9-2013    1253.01 -
                     1253.06
10-2013  12-9-2013   220.01
04-2014  6-2-2014    1218.06
05-2014  6-2-2014    1216.03
10-2014  10-13-2014  1214.02
11-2014  10-13-2014  1216.01
07-2015  4-13-2015   TSO J
15-2014  4-13-2015   242.14
03-2015  5-11-2015   251.10,
                     251.20
25-2015  10-12-2015  290.03
24-2015  10-26-2015  252.01 -
                     252.12
                     880.01 -
21-2015  11-9-2015   880.45,
                     880.99
23-2015  11-9-2015   TSO J
01-2016  2-8-2016    TSO H
02-2016  2-8-2016    TSO I
04-2016  3-14-2016   TSO J
07-2016  6-27-2016   242.15
12-2016  9-26-2016   TSO H
                     1040.01 -
                     1040.03,
13-2016  9-26-2016   1040.99,
                     1042.01 -
                     1042.04,
                     1042.99
16-2016  10-10-2016  TSO J
20-2016  10-10-2016  TSO J
27-2016  12-12-2016  TSO D
22-2016  1-9-2017    250.01
06-2017  3-13-2017   1272.04
28-2016  3-13-2017   252.09
10-2017  4-24-2017   TSO B
09-2017  5-22-2017   1274.06
03-2017  6-19-2017   1272.04
04-2017  6-19-2017   1278.04
05-2017  6-19-2017   1464.01
                     1202.04,
16-2017  6-19-2017   1202.06,
                     1202.07
19-2017  8-14-2017   TSO D
24-2017  9-11-2017   1202.06
                     665.01 -
12-2017  10-23-2017  665.11,
                     665.99
31-2017  12-11-2017  252.01 -
                     252.12
                     1480.01 -
33-2017  12-11-2017  1480.23,
                     1480.99
35-2017  12-18-2017  TSO D
01-2018  2-26-2018   Repeals 660.14
03-2018  3-26-2018   452.16
08-2018  6-11-2018   TSO B
11-2018  8-13-2018   TSO D
12-2018  8-13-2018   TSO I
17-2018  10-8-2018   TSO B
24-2018  12-10-2018  TSO D
08-2019  10-14-2019  618.18,
                     1290.01
12-2019  6-10-2019   TSO B
13-2019  10-28-2019  250.01
15-2019  7-8-2019    TSO B
18-2019  9-23-2019   TSO D
20-2019  11-11-2019  1282.08, Repeals 452.15
21-2019  11-11-2019  1280.05
22-2019  11-18-2019  252.01 -
                     252.12
23-2019  11-11-2019  TSO I
06-2020  5-11-2020   1202.01
09-2020  8-10-2020   1022.01 -
                     1022.09
10-2020  8-10-2020   250.01
14-2020  3-22-2021   TSO D
01-2021  2-8-2021    250.01
02-2021  2-8-2021    1202.01
05-2021  9-28-2021   204.01,
                     204.04
07-2021  4-26-2021   TSO D
12-2021  8-18-2021   648.04
14-2021  11-9-2021   TSO J
16-2021  12-14-2021  250.01
                    
 
 
