VILLAGE OF MOGADORE, OHIO
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-17 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2024-88, passed 12-4-24 and
Res. 2024-95, passed 12-18-24
State legislation current through 12-31-24
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
 
CHARTER
PREAMBLE
ARTICLE I
NAME AND BOUNDARIES
   
1.01   Name and Boundaries
ARTICLE II
FORM OF GOVERNMENT AND POWERS
   
2.01   Form of Government
   
2.02   Powers
   
2.03   Gender Neutral Statement
ARTICLE III
THE COUNCIL
   
3.01   Composition and Term
   
3.02   Qualifications
   
3.03   Compensation
   
3.04   Organization
   
3.05   Quorum
   
3.06   Rules and Journal of Council
   
3.07   Clerk of Council
   
3.08   Vacancies
   
3.09   Meetings
   
3.10   Powers
   
3.11   Provisions as to Legislative Action
   
3.12   Publication of Ordinances, Resolutions and Notices
   
3.13   Effective Date of Ordinances and Resolutions
   
3.14   Charter Corrections
ARTICLE IV
THE MAYOR
   
4.01   Election and Term
   
4.02   Qualifications
   
4.03   Absence or Vacancy
   
4.04   Executive Powers
   
4.05   Legislative Powers
   
4.06   Judicial Powers
ARTICLE V
CLERK-TREASURER
   
5.01   Election and Term
   
5.02   Qualifications
   
5.03   Absence or Vacancy
   
5.04   Clerk of Council
   
5.05   Fiscal Officer
   
5.06   Other Duties
ARTICLE VI
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SERVICE
   
6.01   Director of Public Service
   
6.02   Qualifications
   
6.03   Duties in General
   
6.04   Employees
   
6.05   Municipal Engineer
ARTICLE VII
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY
   
7.01   Director of Public Safety
   
7.02   Duties in General
   
7.03   Police Department
   
7.04   Fire Department
   
7.05   Rules for Government of Police and Fire Departments
ARTICLE VIII
DEPARTMENT OF LAW
   
8.01   Director of Law
   
8.02   Qualifications
   
8.03   Duties in General
ARTICLE IX
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
   
9.01   Composition and Term
   
9.02   Powers and Duties
ARTICLE X
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
   
10.01   Composition and Term
   
10.02   Jurisdiction
ARTICLE XI
CEMETERY, PARK AND RECREATION BOARD
   
11.01   Cemetery Board
   
11.02   Park and Recreation Board
ARTICLE XII
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION AND CIVIL SERVICE SYSTEM
   
12.01   Establishment
   
12.02   Composition and Term
   
12.03   Procedures
ARTICLE XIII
FRANCHISES
   
13.01   Function
ARTICLE XIV
FINANCE
   
14.01   Limitation on Rate of Taxation
   
14.02   Contracts and Fiscal Matters
   
14.03   Contracts and Purchasing
ARTICLE XV
NOMINATIONS AND ELECTIONS
   
15.01   Regular Municipal Election
   
15.02   Primary Election
   
15.03   Nominations
   
15.04   Caucus
   
15.05   Other Elections
   
15.06   General Provisions
ARTICLE XVI
GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
16.01   Terms of Present Officers
   
16.02   Effective Date of Charter and Continuance of Present Officers and
Employees
   
16.03   Effect of Charter on Existing Laws and Rights
   
16.04   Effects of Partial Invalidity
   
16.05   Interpretation of the Charter
   
16.06   Opening Prayer at Meetings
   
16.07   Succession
   
16.08   Organization of Boards and Commissions
ARTICLE XVII
AMENDMENTS TO CHARTER
   
17.01   Submission to Electors
ARTICLE XVIII
CHARTER REVIEW COMMISSION
   
18.01   Composition, Term and Dates
ARTICLE XIX
INITIATIVE, REFERENDUM AND RECALL
   
19.01   Initiative
   
19.02   Referendum
   
19.03   Recall
PREAMBLE
   We, the people of the Municipality of Mogadore, Ohio, in order to secure for
ourselves the benefits of Municipal Home Rule and to exercise all the powers of
local self-government under the constitution and laws of the State of Ohio, do
hereby adopt this Charter for our Municipality.
ARTICLE I
NAME AND BOUNDARIES
SECTION 1.01 NAME AND BOUNDARIES.
   The present Municipality, known as the Village of Mogadore, Ohio, shall
continue to be a body politic and corporate, under the name of the Village of
Mogadore, or the City of Mogadore, as the Constitution of Ohio requires, and
with the same boundaries, with powers and authority to change its boundaries
and annex other territory contiguous thereto in the manner authorized by the
General Laws of Ohio.
ARTICLE II
FORM OF GOVERNMENT AND POWERS
SECTION 2.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government established by this Charter shall be known as "Mayor-
Council." This shall consist of the Council and Mayor elected by the voters of
the Municipality and shall possess respectively the legislative and executive
and judicial powers specified in this Charter. The Municipality shall have only
such other officers as are provided for in this Charter or in ordinances
enacted hereunder.
SECTION 2.02 POWERS.
   The Municipality shall have all the powers, general or special, governmental
or proprietary, that now or hereafter may be possessed or exercised lawfully by
municipal corporations under the constitution and general laws of the State of
Ohio. The powers of this Municipality shall be exercised in the manner
prescribed in this Charter, or to the extent that the manner is not prescribed
herein, in such manner as the Council may determine. The powers of the
Municipality may also be exercised, except as a contrary intent or implication
appears in this Charter or in the enactments of the Council, in such manner as
may now or hereafter be provided by the general laws of the state of Ohio.
SECTION 2.03 GENDER NEUTRAL STATEMENT.
   Whenever the male gender is used in this Charter, it shall include the
female gender.
(Amendment passed by electorate 7-5-00)
ARTICLE III
THE COUNCIL
SECTION 3.01 COMPOSITION AND TERM.
   Council shall consist of seven (7) members, all of whom shall be elected at
large. The members of Council shall serve for a term of four (4) years
commencing on the first day of January next following their election, except
that with respect to the General Election held in 1995, four (4) members shall
be elected for a term of four (4) years commencing on January 1, 1996, and the
remaining three (3) members shall be elected for a term of two (2) years
commencing January 1, 1996, except as otherwise provided herein at Section
19.03. The four (4) elected members receiving the greatest number of votes at
the General Election in 1995 shall serve the four year terms and the remaining
three elected members shall serve the two year terms. If any member elected to
Council shall fail to qualify for office within fifteen (15) days following the
commencement of this term, such office shall thereupon be vacant and shall be
filled as provided in Section
3.08 of this Charter.
(Amendment passed by electorate 11-7-95)
SECTION 3.02 QUALIFICATIONS.
   A member of Council shall have been continuously a resident and an elector
of the Municipality for one (1) year immediately prior to the date of his/her
election or appointment, and each such member shall continue to be a resident
and an elector therein throughout his term of office. No member of Council
shall hold any other elective public office or any other municipal office or
employment except as otherwise provided in this Charter. Except for
compensation received as a member of Council, no member of Council shall be
interested in the profits, fee or salary of any contract, job, work or service
for which monies of the Municipality are expended. Council shall be the sole
and final judge of the election and qualification of its members.
SECTION 3.03 COMPENSATION.
   Council shall fix the compensation of the Mayor, members of Council, Clerk-
Treasurer, and each officer and employee, or member of any board or commission,
of the Municipality, whether elected or appointed except as specifically
provided otherwise in this Charter. Any changes in the compensation of the
Mayor, Clerk-Treasurer and each member of Council for the next term shall be
made not less than one hundred twenty (120) days immediately preceding the date
of the next municipal election and shall not thereafter be changed with respect
to such term. The compensation of every other employee, and member of any board
of commission, of this Municipality, as fixed by Council, may at any time be
changed by resolution or ordinance at the discretion of Council.
   The Mayor, Clerk-Treasurer, Director of Public Service, and such other
officials or employees, or members of boards or commissions as Council may by
resolution or ordinance require, shall give bond in such amount and form and
with such surety as may be approved by Council. The premium on such bonds shall
be paid by the Municipality.
SECTION 3.04 ORGANIZATION.
   On or after the 1st day of January but not later than the 5th day of January
following each regular municipal election, the members of Council shall meet at
the Council Chambers for the purpose of organization. At such meeting the
Council shall elect one of its members as President of the Council to serve
until his successor has been elected. In the event the President of the Council
ceases to be a member thereof, the Council shall elect another member to serve
as President until a successor has been elected.
SECTION 3.05 QUORUM.
   A majority of the members of Council shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business at any meeting of the Council, but a number less than a
quorum may adjourn the meeting from time to time and compel the attendance of
absent members in such manner and under such penalties as may be prescribed by
ordinance, resolution or by rules of the Council. At any meeting at which a
quorum is present, any action may be taken by the affirmative vote of a
majority of the members of Council unless a larger number be required by the
provisions of this Charter or the laws of the State of Ohio.
SECTION 3.06 RULES AND JOURNAL OF COUNCIL.
   The Council shall adopt its own rules, regulations or by-laws and shall keep
a journal of all of its proceedings. The journal shall be open for public
inspection at all reasonable times. The voting upon any ordinance, resolution,
or motion shall be by roll call, and the vote of each member of the Council
shall be entered upon the journal.
SECTION 3.07 CLERK OF COUNCIL.
   See Clerk-Treasurer, Section
5.04.
SECTION 3.08 VACANCIES.
   Whenever a Council office becomes vacant, the vacancy shall be filled by a
majority vote of all remaining members of Council. If the vacancy is not filled
within thirty (30) days, the Mayor shall fill it by appointment. A member of
Council appointed to fill a vacancy shall serve the balance of that term.
However, if a member is appointed within the first two (2) years of the four
(4) year term of that vacant office, an election shall beheld to fill the
unexpired term, during the next Municipal election that does not fall within
one hundred eighty (180) days of the appointment.
(Amendment passed by electorate 11-2-10)
SECTION 3.09 MEETINGS.
Regular Meetings.
   The Council shall meet in the Council Chambers at such times as may be
prescribed by its ordinances, resolutions or rules. Regular meetings shall be
held at least twice in each calendar month. All meetings of the Council,
whether regular or special, shall be open to the public in accordance with the
provisions, requirements, and exceptions set forth in Ohio Revised Code Section
121.22 and as otherwise might be required by law.
Special Meetings.
   Special meetings of the Council may be called as provided by its rules. In
the absence of such provisions, special meetings may be called by a vote of the
Council taken at any regular or special meeting thereof, or shall be called by
the Clerk upon the written request of the Mayor or President of Council or of
three (3) members of Council. Any such request shall state the time, place and
date thereof and the subject or subjects to be considered at the meeting.
Unless five (5) members in attendance concur, no other subject or subjects
shall be considered. Notice in writing of each such meeting called at the
request of the Mayor, President of Council or three (3) members of Council
shall be given to each member of Council and the Mayor by serving the same on
each of them personally or by leaving a copy thereof at his usual place of
residence not less than twenty-four (24) hours preceding the date and hour of
such meeting. Service of such notice may be waived either before or after such
a meeting in writing or by attendance at such special meeting.
(Amendment passed by electorate 11-5-96)
SECTION 3.10 POWERS.
   Except as otherwise required by the Constitution of the State of Ohio of
this Charter, the Council shall have and possess these powers:
A.   All of the legislative powers of the Municipality now or hereafter granted
by the Constitution and the laws of the State of Ohio to legislate bodies of
municipalities, and such other powers granted by this Charter and all powers
now or hereafter granted by the laws of the State of Ohio to Boards of Control,
Municipal Tax Commissions, Boards of Trustees of Public Affairs, Recreation
Boards, or any other municipal commission, board or body now or hereafter
created by law, except as otherwise provided by this Charter.
B.   The power to create, combine or abolish offices, departments, divisions,
boards or commissions of the Municipality except for those provided for in this
Charter and the power to fix the qualifications, duties, bonds and compensation
of all officers and members thereof not fixed in this Charter.
C.   The power to approve and confirm or to disapprove and reject the
appointment or removal by the Mayor of any appointive officer or head of a
department or division of the Municipality.
D.   The power to establish the number of employees in the various departments
of the Municipality and to determine the qualifications, duties, bonds and
compensation of such employees. Council may authorize the payment or
reimbursement of expenses incurred by any officer or employee, or member of any
board or commission of the Municipality, for traveling or other expenses
incidental to the authorized furtherance of the interests of the Municipality.
E.   The power to determine the method of and procedure for making, awarding,
advertising, modifying and enforcing contracts with the Municipality and the
method, procedure, time and manner of payment thereunder. No contract shall be
made on behalf of the Municipality unless authorized monies therefor have been
appropriated by the Council and no contract shall be binding upon the
Municipality unless the necessary money has been lawfully appropriated
therefor.
F.   The power to determine the method, manner, consideration and procedure for
the purchase of real and personal property on behalf of the Municipality and
the sale or disposal thereof.
G.   The power to determine the method, manner and procedure for making the
following improvements and for levying and collecting assessments on property
benefited thereby:
   (1)   construction, reconstruction or repair of sidewalks.
   (2)   lighting, sprinkling, cleaning or oiling of streets, highways, public
places and public grounds.
   (3)   cutting and disposal of weeds and abatement of nuisances on private
property.
   (4)   collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish and refuse.
H.   The power to expel or remove:
   (1)   any member of Council for gross misconduct, misfeasance, malfeasance
or nonfeasance in office, or disqualification for holding office, or for
conviction while in office of a crime involving moral turpitude, or for
violation of the oath of office, or for persistent failure to abide by the
rules of Council or for absence for three (3) consecutive regular meetings of
Council unless excused by Council.
   (2)   the Mayor or Clerk-Treasurer for gross misconduct, malfeasance,
misfeasance or nonfeasance in office or for disqualification for holding
office, or for conviction while in office of a crime involving moral turpitude,
or for the violation of the oath of office.
      No such expulsion or removal shall take place except on concurrence of
five (5) members of Council, nor until the accused person shall have been
notified in writing of the charge against him/her at least ten (10) days in
advance of any hearing upon such charge, and until his/her counsel shall have
been given the opportunity to appear before the Council and to be heard, to
present evidence and to examine witnesses appearing in support of the charge.
I.   The power to make such other general regulations as the Council may deem
necessary in the public interest including the exercise of the power granted in
Section
2.02 of this Charter.
SECTION 3.11 PROVISIONS AS TO LEGISLATIVE ACTION.
A.   All legislative action by the Council in the form of ordinance or
resolution shall be introduced in written or printed form. An affirmative vote
of at least a majority of the members of Council shall be required for the
passage of every ordinance or resolution.
B.   Every ordinance and resolution shall be read on three (3) different days
at meetings of Council unless five (5) members of Council vote to dispense with
the second and third readings thereof. All of these readings may be by title
only, unless otherwise requested by any member of Council.
C.   No ordinance or resolution shall contain more than one general subject,
which subject shall be clearly expressed in its title. Any ordinance or
resolution revising or amending previous legislation shall set forth the entire
section as it is to be revised or amended. It shall set forth the entire
section as revised or amended and state that the same section unrevised or as
it existed prior to amendment shall be deemed repealed.
D.   The Council may adopt standard codes prepared by public or private
agencies on such matters as fire prevention, building construction, electric
wiring, plumbing, heating, ventilating, air conditioning, and similar subjects
by reference to the date and source of such codes without reproducing the same
at length in the adopting ordinance. In case of such adoption, publication of
the code at length shall not be required but there shall be at the time of
adoption thereof and at all times thereafter on file for public inspection in
the office of the Clerk-Treasurer of the Municipality at least one copy of such
code. If the agency which originally promulgated or published code thereafter
amends said code, Council, if it has adopted said code by the provisions in
this section, may adopt such amendment or change by incorporation by reference
in an amending ordinance by the same procedure as required for the adoption of
the original code without the necessity of setting forth in full in the
amending ordinance the provisions of the original ordinance or code.
E.   Revisions, codification or rearrangements of ordinances may be published
in book form. If so revised, codified or rearranged under appropriate titles,
chapters and sections, such revisions, codification or rearrangements may be
made in one ordinance comprising one or more subjects. The publication in book
form as aforesaid with certification of the passage and adoption thereof by the
Clerk-Treasurer shall constitute sufficient publication of the ordinance or
ordinances contained therein. The book so published and certified shall be
received in evidence in any court, for the purpose of proving the ordinance or
ordinances therein contained, in the same manner and for the same purpose as
the original book, ordinances, minutes or journal would be received. If a
revision, codification or rearrangement of ordinances contains new matter not
previously published, a notice of the enactment thereof, setting forth the
titles of the ordinances and the titles of the chapters and sections containing
such new matter, shall be published in the manner provided in Section 3.12 of
this Article, which notice shall constitute a sufficient publication of such
new matter.
(Amendment passed by electorate 11-3-09)
SECTION 3.12 PUBLICATION OF ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND NOTICES.
A.   Except as herein otherwise provided, every ordinance or resolution of a
general or permanent nature, including but not limited to those granting,
renewing or extending a franchise, creating a right, involving expenditures of
money, levying of a tax, or concerning the purchase, lease, sale or transfer of
public property and every notice, statement, order, proclamation or report
required to be published, shall be published either by posting a copy thereof
in a conspicuous place in the Mogadore Municipal Building for a period of not
less than fifteen (15) days or by publishing the same in any English language
newspaper printed in and of general circulation in the Municipality. If there
is no such newspaper so printed, then such publication may be made in any
newspaper of general circulation therein, if so determined by Council.
B.   Council may by ordinance designate additional public places in the
Municipality for posting copies of ordinances or resolutions and may make
provision in any ordinance or resolution for the publication of such ordinance
or resolution in one English language newspaper of general circulation in the
Municipality.
C.   In the case of newspaper publication, ordinances and resolutions shall be
published once per week for two (2) consecutive weeks; notices shall be
published not less than two (2) nor more than four (4) consecutive weeks, and
all other matters once.
D.   Proof of any publication provided for in this Section shall be made by the
Clerk-Treasurer as provided by ordinance, or by the laws of the State of Ohio.
SECTION 3.13 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
A.   Each ordinance or resolution providing for the appropriation of money or
for any annual tax levy, or for the authorization or making of improvements
petitioned for by the owners of not less than a majority of the front footage
or area of property to be benefited and specially assessed therefor, or the
submission of any question to the vote of the electors of the Municipality, and
any emergency ordinance or resolution declared by the Council to be necessary
for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health or safety shall take
effect, unless a later date be specified therein, (1) upon its approval by the
Mayor, (2) upon the expiration of the time within which it may be disapproved
by the Mayor, or (3) upon the passage thereof after disapproval by the Mayor,
as the case may be.
B.   No other ordinance or resolution shall become effective until thirty (30)
days after, (1) its approval by the Mayor, (2) the expiration of the time
within which it may be disapproved by the Mayor, or (3) its passage after
disapproval by the Mayor, as the case may be. Each emergency measure shall
contain a statement of the necessity for such emergency action and shall
require the affirmative vote of at least five (5) members of Council for its
enactment, provided that if it fails to receive such affirmative vote but
receives the necessary majority for passage as a non-emergency measure, it
shall be considered passed and shall be effective as a non-emergency measure.
The first ordinance, resolution or action of the Council authorizing any change
in the boundaries of the Municipality, or authorizing the surrender or joint
exercise of its powers, or granting, renewing or extending any franchise, or
contracting for the supply to the Municipality or its inhabitants of the
product or service of any utility shall not be taken as an emergency measure.
SECTION 3.14 CHARTER CORRECTIONS.
   Village Council shall be authorized to make typographical corrections to or
changes or deletions in, as well as changes in the form of, the Charter;
however, the changes shall relate to matters of form; or, to make the Charter
Consistent with Ohio law upon the advice of the Law Director. Any such
modification, change, or correction shall, in all cases, be approved by
resolution of Council, prior to going into effect. No modification, change or
correction shall affect the construction, meaning, substance, or intent of the
Charter as adopted and amended by the people, except where the change corrects
the Charter to comply with Ohio law. The specific powers granted by this
Section include:
   (A)   Village Council may correct obvious misspellings and typographical
errors.
   (B)   Village Council may divide the text of any section or paragraph into
shorter paragraphs or subparagraphs and letter or number the same to improve
clarity and ease of reference.
   (C)   Village Council may renumber the sections and rearrange their order to
provide:
      (1)   More coherent grouping or sections related in subject matter; and
      (2)   Continuous, consecutive numbering of sections.
   (D)   Village Council may remove inconsistent language and correct language
that violates Ohio law to insure that the Charter complies with Ohio law.
   Upon the adoption of any amendment that creates or abolishes an office or
offices or changes the powers or duties of any existing officer or agency of
the Village, the Village Council shall make necessary correlative changes in
existing sections that refer to such offices, officers, or agencies by deleting
therefrom, as the case may be, the name of the office created or the title of
the officer of agency then having such powers or duties.
(Amendment passed by electorate 11-4-14)
ARTICLE IV
THE MAYOR
SECTION 4.01 ELECTION AND TERM.
   The Mayor shall be elected at the regular municipal election held in the
year 1995, and every fourth year thereafter, for four (4) years or until his
successor is chosen and qualified, except as otherwise provided in Section
19.03 of this Charter. The Mayor's term shall commence and the Mayor shall
assume office on the first day of January next following such election.
(Amendment passed by electorate 11-7-95)
SECTION 4.02 QUALIFICATIONS.
   The Mayor shall have been a resident and an elector of the Municipality for
at least two (2) years immediately prior to the date of his/her election and
shall continue to be a resident and an elector therein throughout his/her term
of office. Regardless of the minimum voting age, the Mayor shall have attained
twenty-one (21) years of age prior to his/her election. Except as provided in
this Charter, he/she shall not hold any other elective office, public office or
any other employment with any other local, state, or federal government body.
However, nothing contained in this Section shall prohibit the Mayor from
serving as a volunteer for any political subdivision and he/she receives no
compensation for the same. Except as to salary or reimbursement of expenses
received as Mayor or other role within the Municipality, he/she shall not,
directly or indirectly, solicit, contract for, receive or be interested in any
profits, fee or salary, from or on account of any contract, j ob, work or
service with or for the Municipality.
(Amendment passed by electorate 11-8-22)
SECTION 4.03 ABSENCE OR VACANCY.
A.   Absence.
   When the Mayor is absent or inaccessible or is unable for any cause or
reason to perform his duties, the President of Council shall become the Acting
Mayor and during such period shall have the same powers and perform the same
duties, including judicial, as the Mayor with the following exceptions:
   (1)   Said person cannot disapprove legislation of the Council.
   (2)   Said person does not have the power to break a tie vote of the
Council. He shall also continue as a member of Council with all the powers and
duties of such member.
B.   Vacancy.
   In the event the office of the Mayor shall become vacant for any reason, the
President of Council shall thereupon become the Mayor, and shall serve the
balance of that term. However, if a member is appointed within the first two
(2) years of the four (4) year term of that vacant office, an election shall be
held to fill the unexpired term, during the next Municipal election that does
not fall within one hundred eighty (180) days of the appointment. Upon becoming
Mayor, the offices of President of Council and member of Council shall become
vacant.
(Amendment passed by electorate 11-2-10)
C.   Absence of President of Council.
   In the event the President of Council shall be absent or inaccessible or for
any reason unable to perform his duties as Acting Mayor, and an emergency or
urgent necessity so requires, the Council, by vote of a majority of the
remaining members of Council may designate one of their number Acting Mayor for
the purposes and duration only of such emergency or urgent necessity, who
thereupon shall have the same powers and perform the same duties, including
judicial, as the Mayor with the following exceptions:
   (1)   Said person cannot disapprove legislation of the Council.
   (2)   Said person does not have the power to break a tie vote of the
Council.
SECTION 4.04 EXECUTIVE POWERS.
A.   The Mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the Municipality. He
shall supervise the administration of the affairs of the Municipality and shall
exercise control over all departments and divisions thereof. The Mayor shall be
the chief conservator of the peace within the Municipality and shall cause all
laws and ordinances to be enforced therein.
B.   The Mayor shall be responsible for the faithful observance and performance
of the conditions imposed in favor of the Municipality or its inhabitants by
any franchise or contract to which the Municipality is a party.
B-1.   During each year in which the State of Ohio does not conduct its own
audit of the Municipal Financial Records of the Village, such records may be
audited by the Village. In the event of such audit, the Council shall employ a
public audit firm to perform such audit or designate three of its members to
perform such audit.
C.   Except as otherwise provided by this Charter, the Mayor shall have the
power to appoint, promote, transfer, suspend for a period of not more than
thirty (30) days, reduce or remove any officer or employee of the Municipality
except elected officials, provided, however, that such appointment, promotion,
transfer, reduction or removal of officers including members of boards and
commissions provided for by this Charter and the heads of Departments or
Divisions established pursuant thereto shall not take effect without the
concurrence of a majority of the members of Council.
D.   After notice and public hearing as hereinafter provided the Mayor with the
concurrence of a majority of the members of Council may remove any member of a
Municipal Court or Commission for inefficiency, incapacity, incompetency,
neglect of duty, malfeasance, misfeasance or nonfeasance in office. To effect
such removal, the Mayor shall mail to the individual concerned, by registered
mail, a written notice to show cause why he should be removed accompanied by a
statement of reasons for removal and shall fix therein a date, time and place
for a public hearing not earlier than ten (10) days after the date of delivery
of such notice and statement. Pending such hearing the Mayor may suspend such
individual from office and prohibit him from exercising any duties, functions
or authority of his office or position. At such hearing such individual shall
have the right to be heard in person and to be represented by counsel in
respect to any charge specified in said written statement of the Mayor. If
following such hearing the Mayor shall remove such individual, the Mayor shall
file with the Clerk-Treasurer a signed order of removal accompanied by a
written statement of the findings at such hearing and the reasons for such
removal. Upon approval of such order with affirmative vote of five (5) members
of Council, such removal shall become final and the Clerk-Treasurer shall
notify the individual so removed.
E.   The Mayor and Clerk-Treasurer shall execute on behalf of the Municipality
all contracts, conveyances, evidences of indebtedness and all other instruments
to which it is a party. The Mayor shall be recognized as the official and
ceremonial head of the Municipality, by the Governor, for military purposes
and, by the courts, for the purpose of serving civil processes.
(Amendment passed by electorate 11-7-95)
SECTION 4.05 LEGISLATIVE POWERS.
A.   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Council but shall have no
vote therein except in the event of a tie vote of members of Council upon any
ordinance or resolution or other action of the Council including that required
by
Section 4.04 C. In the event of such tie vote, the Mayor, presiding at such
meeting, shall have the power to vote upon such ordinance, resolution or other
action and his vote shall have the same legal effect as a vote of a member of
Council. The Mayor, in addition to presiding at Council meetings, may take part
in the discussion upon all matters under consideration by the Council and may
introduce and propose ordinances and resolutions. If adoption thereof be moved
by a member of Council, the same shall be considered and acted upon as if
introduced and proposed by a member of Council.
B.   Every ordinance or resolution adopted by the Council shall be signed by
its President or in his absence by a President pro-tem, designated by the
Council, shall be attested by the Clerk-Treasurer, and promptly presented to
the Mayor. If the Mayor approves such ordinance or resolution, he shall sign it
within five (5) days after its passage by the Council. If he does not approve
it, he shall return the same to the Council, by delivery to the Clerk-
Treasurer, within said five (5) day period together with a written statement of
his objections, which statement in its entirety shall be entered on the journal
of the Council.
C.   The Mayor may approve or disapprove in the manner above provided, the
whole or any item of an ordinance or resolution appropriating money and the
item or items so disapproved shall be void unless repassed by the Council in
the manner herein prescribed, but otherwise his approval or disapproval shall
cover the entire ordinance or resolution.
D.   If the Mayor does not sign or disapprove an ordinance or resolution within
said five (5) day period after its passage by the Council, it shall take effect
in the same manner as if he had signed it on the last day of such five (5) day
period.
E.   The Council may reconsider the vote on the passage of any legislation
disapproved by the Mayor not later than thirty (30) days after the date upon
which the Mayor returned the same to the Council. If on reconsideration such
legislation is approved by five (5) members of the Council, it shall become
effective as of the time provided in Section
3.13.
SECTION 4.06 JUDICIAL POWERS.
   The Mayor shall have all judicial powers granted from time to time by the
general laws of the State of Ohio to mayors of municipalities.
ARTICLE V
CLERK-TREASURER
SECTION 5.01 ELECTION AND TERM.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the affirmative
vote of five (5) members of Council.
(Amendment passed by electorate 11-7-95; Amended passed by electorate 11-8-16)
SECTION 5.02 QUALIFICATIONS.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall have a Bachelor’s Degree or the equivalent of four
(4) years, experience in accounting or finance.
(Amendment passed by electorate 11-8-16)
SECTION 5.03 ABSENCE OR VACANCY.
A.   Absence.
   When the Clerk-Treasurer is absent or inaccessible or is unable for any
cause or reason to perform said duties, or there is a vacancy in such office,
Council may designate an Assistant to the Clerk-Treasurer to have the powers
and perform the duties of the Clerk-Treasurer in all respects.
(Amendment passed by electorate 11-2-10; Amendment passed by electorate 11-4-
14; Amendment passed by electorate 11-8-16)
SECTION 5.04 CLERK OF COUNCIL.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be the Clerk of the Council, and as such, shall
attend all meetings of the Council and shall keep a record of its proceedings
in a journal as prescribed in Section
3.06 of this Charter. The Clerk shall keep and have custody of the records of
all ordinances, resolutions, rules, regulations, and by-laws adopted by the
Council and of its proceedings, and such records shall be available for public
inspection.
SECTION 5.05 FISCAL OFFICER.
A.   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be the Fiscal Officer of the Municipality and
shall be the head of the Department of Finance, when created, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall be the financial advisor of the Municipality and shall at all
times keep the Mayor and the Council informed of the financial condition and
needs of the Municipality.
B.   To the extent required by the Constitution Of the State of Ohio the Clerk-
Treasurer shall comply with the applicable laws of the State of Ohio and the
terms of this Charter relating to certification for and expenditures of public
monies. The Clerk-Treasurer shall prepare and execute all warrants for the
disbursements of monies of the Municipality and shall audit all payrolls, bills
and other claims against the Municipality. Unless such payroll, bill or claim
is in proper form, correctly computed and duly approved; that the same is due
and payable; that a lawful appropriation has been made for the payment thereof;
and that the amount required to pay the same is in the Treasury or in the
process of collection to the credit of an appropriate fund, free from any
previous encumbrances, the Clerk-Treasurer shall issue no warrant for the
payment thereof.
C.   The Clerk-Treasurer shall prepare the annual estimate of receipts and
expenditures and all appropriation measures and submit the same to the Mayor
for transmittal to the Council.
D.   On or before the 31st day of March of each year, the Clerk-Treasurer shall
prepare and submit to the Mayor and Council a report of the financial condition
of the Municipality and of receipts and expenditures for the preceding calendar
year, which report shall be published in accordance with the provisions of
Section
3.12 of this Charter.
SECTION 5.06 OTHER DUTIES.
A.   The Clerk-Treasurer and the Mayor shall execute on behalf of the
Municipality all contracts, conveyances, evidences of indebtedness and other
instruments to which the Municipality is a party.
B.   The Clerk-Treasurer shall authenticate and have custody and charge of such
records, documents and instruments of the Municipality as may be from time to
time required by Council.
C.   The Clerk-Treasurer shall perform such other duties consistent with the
office as the Mayor or the Council may request or direct.
D.   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be custodian of all monies of the Municipality
and of all evidences of investments of Municipality monies, and shall keep and
preserve the same in such manner and at such place or places as shall be
determined by the Council.
E.   The Clerk-Treasurer shall pay out from the Municipality's Treasury only on
warrants and shall keep a detailed record of all receipts from taxes and other
sources, as well as a detailed record of all disbursements and a record of the
expenditures and balances of various appropriated funds.
F.   In general, and without limitation as to particularity the Clerk-Treasurer
shall discharge the duties and functions of the Clerk-Treasurer of a
Municipality except as otherwise provided in this Charter.
ARTICLE VI
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SERVICE
SECTION 6.01 DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC SERVICE.
   The Director of Public Service shall be the head of the Department of Public
Service. The Mayor, in addition to his other duties, shall be, and shall
perform the duties of the Director of Public Service, until such time as
Council may determine that it is in the best interest of the Municipality to
appoint some other person to that office. Upon making such determination, the
Council shall declare the office of Director of Public Service vacant, and the
Director of Public Service shall then be appointed by the Mayor.
SECTION 6.02 QUALIFICATIONS.
   The Director of Public Service shall be selected on the basis of his
executive and administrative qualifications with special references to his
experience in, and knowledge of, accepted practices in respect to the duties of
his office as hereinafter set forth, but he shall not necessarily be required
to be an engineer.
SECTION 6.03 DUTIES IN GENERAL.
   The Director of Public Service shall have the responsibility for
construction, improvement and maintenance of all public works, buildings,
grounds, roads, streets, and all other public places of the Municipality,
except as may be otherwise provided in this Charter. The Director of Public
Service shall have charge of and shall supervise the maintenance of all
Municipal property and equipment and the storage of all material and supplies
except as otherwise provided for in Article XI.
SECTION 6.04 EMPLOYEES.
   The Director of Public Service, subject to appropriation by Council, may
employ such assistance and employees as may from time to time be necessary.
SECTION 6.05 MUNICIPAL ENGINEER.
   The Mayor shall appoint within the Department of Public Service, subject to
an affirmative vote of five (5) members of Council, a Municipal Engineer for a
term not to exceed two (2) years. Such appointee shall be a registered civil
engineer and shall perform such duties as are from time to time required of him
by the Director of Public Service.
ARTICLE VII
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY
SECTION 7.01 DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC SAFETY.
   The Director of Public Safety shall be the head of the Department of Public
Safety. The Mayor, in addition to his other duties, shall be, and shall perform
the duties of, the Director of Public Safety, until such time as Council may
determine that it is in the best interest of the Municipality to appoint some
other person to that office. Upon making such determination, the Council shall
declare the Office Of Public Safety vacant, and the Director of Public Safety
shall then be appointed by the Mayor.
SECTION 7.02 DUTIES IN GENERAL.
   The Director of Public Safety shall be the head of the Police and Fire
Departments and shall be responsible for the enforcement of all police, fire,
health, safety and sanitary regulations that may be prescribed by resolutions
and ordinances of the Municipality or laws of Ohio.
SECTION 7.03 POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   The Police Department shall consist of a Chief of Police and such other
officers, patrolmen and personnel as Council shall deem necessary or advisable.
The Chief of Police shall be appointed by the Director of Public Safety with
the affirmative vote of five (5) members of council. Other officers, patrolmen
and personnel shall be appointed and promoted by the Director of Public Safety
subject only to applicable Civil Service provisions of this Charter. Members of
the Police Department shall be transferred, reduced, removed, suspended or
otherwise disciplined by the Director of Public Service subject only to the
applicable Civil Service provisions of this Charter.
A.   Notwithstanding any of the provisions of the Ohio Revised Code to the
contrary, the Village of Mogadore agrees to abide by all provisions contained
in Section 4117 of the Ohio Revised Code, and permit their full-time and part-
time police personnel, with the exception of the Police Chief and captains:
   (1)   The right to form, join, or participate in any employee organization
of their choosing;
   (2)   To bargain collectively with their public employer to determine wages,
hours, terms, and other conditions of employment, and to enter into collective
bargaining agreements; and
   (3)   To engage in other lawful concerted activities for the purpose of
collective bargaining including arbitration, except that said employees are
prohibited from engaging in any work stoppage or strike.
(Amendment passed by electorate 11-8-05; Amendment passed by electorate 11-2-
10)
SECTION 7.04 FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   The Fire Department shall consist of a Fire Chief and such other officers,
firemen and personnel as Council shall deem advisable. The Fire Chief shall be
appointed by the Director of Public Safety with the affirmative vote of five
(5) members of Council. Other officers, firemen and personnel shall be
appointed by the Director of Public Safety subject only to applicable Civil
Service provisions of this Charter. Members of the Fire Department shall be
transferred, reduced, removed, suspended or otherwise disciplined by the
Director of Public Service subject only to the applicable Civil Service
provisions of this Charter.
(Amendment passed by electorate 11-2-10)
SECTION 7.05 RULES FOR GOVERNMENT OF POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS.
   The Director of Public Safety shall make and publish with the approval of
Council, after consulting with Chiefs of the Police and Fire Departments,
written rules for the Government of the Police and Fire Departments and the
conduct and discipline of members thereof.
ARTICLE VIII
DEPARTMENT OF LAW
SECTION 8.01 DIRECTOR OF LAW.
   The Law Director shall be head of the Department of Law and shall be
appointed by the Mayor, with the affirmative vote of five (5) members of
Council to a term not to exceed two (2) years.
SECTION 8.02 QUALIFICATIONS.
   The Law Director shall be an attorney-at-law in good standing admitted to
practice in the courts of Ohio.
SECTION 8.03 DUTIES IN GENERAL.
   The Law Director shall be the legal advisor and attorney for the
Municipality in all of its affairs and shall perform such duties as are
consistent therewith and as may be required by Council or the Mayor.
ARTICLE IX
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
SECTION 9.01 COMPOSITION AND TERM.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall consist of five (5) members. One
member shall be a Councilman selected by the Council to serve during his term
as a Councilman. The other members shall be electors of the Municipality not
holding other Municipal office and appointed by the Mayor with approval by the
Council to serve, one for three, one for two years and one for one year or
until their successors are appointed and assume office. Their successors,
except for the Council member, shall be appointed in like manner for three
years or until their successors are appointed and assume office. The fifth
member of the commission shall be appointed in January 2011 to a three year
term. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired terms in the same manner as
original appointments. All members of this Commission shall have been
continuously a resident and an elector of the municipality for at least one (1)
year prior to the date of his/her appointment and each such member shall
continue to be a resident and an elector therein throughout his/her term.
(Amendment passed by electorate 11-7-06; Amendment passed by electorate 11-2-
10)
SECTION 9.02 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Commission shall have all of the powers and duties granted and imposed
by the laws of Ohio unless otherwise provided by Council, as well as the powers
and duties granted and imposed by this Charter and by ordinances not
inconsistent herewith. The adoption of this Charter shall not change the status
of presently zoned property in the Municipality.
ARTICLE X
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
SECTION 10.01 COMPOSITION AND TERM.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall consists of seven (7) members who are
electors of the Municipality. All members of this Board shall have been
continuously a resident and an elector of the Municipality for at least one (1)
year prior to the date of his/her appointment and each such member shall
continue to be a resident and an elector therein through his/her term. One
member shall be a member of Council selected by the Council to serve during the
remainder of his/her term on Council. The remaining six members of the Board of
Zoning Appeals shall be appointed by the Mayor with Council approval to serve
staggered three year terms, two new members being appointed each year to
replace the two members whose terms are expiring. Vacancies with respect to
those members appointed by the Mayor shall be filled by appointment by the
Mayor and the approval of Council for the remainder of the unexpired terms.
Vacancies with respect to the member appointed by the Council shall be filled
by the Council as provided in this Section.
(Amendment passed by electorate 11-5-96; Amendment passed by electorate 11-7-
06; Amended passed by electorate 11-8-22)
SECTION 10.02 JURISDICTION.
   The Board shall have the power and authority to grant relief from undue
hardship or practical difficulties which would result from the strict
application of zoning ordinance in any particular case in accordance with
standards therefor established by the Council but such action shall be
effective only on the affirmative vote of at least four (4) members.
(Amendment passed by electorate 11-7-06)
ARTICLE XI
CEMETERY, PARK AND RECREATION BOARD
SECTION 11.01 CEMETERY BOARD.
A.   Composition and Term.
   The Cemetery Board shall be composed of not less than three (3) members nor
more than five (5) members. One shall be the Director of Public Service. The
other members shall be appointed by the Mayor with Council approval to serve,
one for one year and one for two years or until their successors are appointed
and assume office. Thereafter, subsequent or additional members shall be
appointed in January of each year to serve for three years or until their
successors are appointed and assume office. Vacancies shall be filled by
similar appointment for the unexpired terms. All members of this Board shall
have been continuously a resident and an elector of the municipality for at
least one (1) year prior to the date of his/her appointment and each such
member shall continue to be a resident and an elector therein throughout his/
her term.
B.   Organization.
   On or before the 15th day in each January, the Mayor shall call the members
to organize the Cemetery Board.
C.   Powers and Duties.
   The duties and powers of the Cemetery Board shall be that of an advisory
board to the Mayor with respect to the overall operation of the Village
Cemetery facilities and shall include the submission of the yearly budget to
the Mayor. The administration, operation and maintenance of the facilities
shall be included within the powers and duties of the Mayor. The Cemetery Board
shall have and exercise such other similar duties and responsibilities as the
Council may confer.
D.   Meetings and Procedures.
   The Cemetery Board meetings shall be open to the public and a copy of its
minutes, to report its activities, shall be filed with the Clerk-Treasurer for
review by Council.
(Amended by electorate 11-7-06)
SECTION 11.02 PARK AND RECREATION BOARD.
A.   Composition and Term.
   The Park and Recreation Board shall be composed of not less than three (3)
members nor more than seven (7) members. One shall be the Director of Public
Service. The other members shall be appointed by the Mayor with Council
approval to serve, one for one year, one for two years or until their
successors are appointed and assume office. Thereafter, subsequent or
additional members shall be appointed in January of each year to serve for
three years or until their successors are appointed and assume office.
Vacancies shall be filled by similar appointment for the unexpired terms. All
members of this Board shall have been continuously a resident and an elector of
the municipality for at least one (1) year prior to the date of his/her
appointment and each such member shall continue to be a resident and an elector
therein throughout his/her term.
B.   Organization.
   On or before the 15th day in each January the Mayor shall call members to
organize the Park and Recreation Board.
C.   Powers and Duties.
   The duties and powers of the Parks and Recreation Board shall be that of an
Advisory Board to the Mayor with respect to the overall operation of the parks,
public playgrounds and recreational programs now or subsequently owned,
controlled or sponsored by the Municipality, and shall include the submission
of a yearly budget to the Mayor. The administration, operation and maintenance
of such facilities and programs shall be included within the powers and duties
of the Mayor. The Parks and Recreation Board shall have and exercise such other
similar duties and responsibilities as the Council may confer.
D.   Meetings and Procedures.
   The Park and Recreation Board meetings shall be open to the public and a
copy of its minutes, to report its activities, shall be filed with the Clerk-
Treasurer for review by Council.
(Amended by electorate 11-7-06)
ARTICLE XII
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION AND CIVIL SERVICE SYSTEM
SECTION 12.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   At such time as the Municipality shall become a City, the Council shall by
ordinance provide for and establish a Civil Service Commission and Civil
Service System or equivalent personnel system to provide for the appointment
and promotion of persons in the service of the Municipality according to merit
and fitness to be determined, as far as practicable, by competitive
examinations, and shall determine which employees of the Municipality shall be
within the classified service and which shall be within the unclassified
service or similar categories of service. Such ordinance shall provide that all
persons who have been continuously employed in the service of the Municipality
in the same or similar position included in the classified service or
equivalent category of service for at least ninety (90) days preceding the
effective date of the ordinance, shall retain their position without
examination until discharged, reduced, promoted, or transferred in accordance
with the rules and regulations of the Civil Service Commission or other body
authorized by ordinance to adopt such rules and regulations. The provisions of
the laws of Ohio regarding selection, promotion, and removal shall be
applicable except as otherwise provided by ordinance.
SECTION 12.02 COMPOSITION AND TERM.
   The Commission shall consist of five (5) members including the Mayor who
shall have no vote except in case of a tie. They shall be appointed by the
Mayor, with approval by the Council, to serve, one for one year, one for two
years, one for three years and one for four years or until their successors are
appointed and assume office. Thereafter one shall be appointed each year in
like manner to serve for four years or until their successors are appointed and
assume office. Vacancies shall be filled by similar appointment for unexpired
terms.
SECTION 12.03 PROCEDURES.
   Records of all the Commission's activities and meetings shall be made and
one copy shall be filed with the Municipality's Clerk-Treasurer. The Commission
shall have the power to adopt such rules and regulations as are proper to carry
out the provisions of this Article XII and the ordinances adopted thereunder.
ARTICLE XIII
FRANCHISES
SECTION 13.01 FUNCTION.
   The Council may, by legislation approved by five (5) members, grant a non-
exclusive franchise to any person, firm, or corporation to construct, operate
and maintain a public utility system or service in, on, above, across, over or
under any public street or property within the Municipality or any extension
thereof for a period of not more than twenty-five (25) years. The Council may,
by legislation approved by five (5) members, grant an exclusive franchise/
contract to any person, firm, or corporation to operate, maintain and/or
provide trash removal and/or recycling services within the Municipality or any
extension thereof for a period of not more than twenty-five (25) years. Any
franchise hereunder may be amended or extended in the same manner and subject
to the same provisions as herein provided for an original grant.
   The Council may, in like manner, prescribe the kind, quality, quantity or
type of the product or service which is to be furnished, provided or supplied
to the Municipality or to its inhabitants and the rates to be charged therefor.
   All such grants, amendments and rights of extension within the Municipality
and within annexed territory shall be made subject to the continuing right of
Council to enact and enforce reasonable regulations as may be necessary to
protect the interest or safety of the public.
(Amendment passed by electorate 4-20-20)
ARTICLE XIV
FINANCE
SECTION 14.01 LIMITATION ON RATE OF TAXATION.
   The Power of Council to levy taxes shall be limited to any tax or tax rate
imposed by said Council prior to January 1, 1971. Any additional tax or tax
rate increase shall be by simple majority vote of the people voting on said
issue.
SECTION 14.02 CONTRACTS AND FISCAL MATTERS.
   Provisions of the Constitution and laws of the State of Ohio relating
generally to budgets, appropriations, deposits, expenditures and the control
thereof, debts, tax levies, bonds, contracts and other fiscal matters of a
Municipality shall be applicable to this Municipality except as modified by, or
necessarily inconsistent with, the provisions of this Charter.
SECTION 14.03 CONTRACTS AND PURCHASING.
   The Clerk-Treasurer may, within the limits, amounts and items appropriated
therefor by Council make purchases and enter into contracts in the manner
provided in Section
5.06 A. on behalf of the Municipality, involving expenditures of less than one-
half (1/2) the amount that shall, from time to time, be determined by the Ohio
Revised Code for statutory municipalities except as may be otherwise provided
by Council.
   No purchase nor contract involving an expenditure of one-half (1/2) the said
statutory amount or more shall be made except from or with the lowest
responsive and responsible bidder as determined by Council after advertising
for bids once a week for a period of at least two weeks in a newspaper of
general circulation within the Municipality. Council shall have the authority
to establish standards for granting local preference to those contractors
located within the Village of Mogadore and/or Portage and Summit counties who
are bidding on municipal contracts. Council may authorize contracts for
personal services without advertising for bids and Council may authorize
purchases or enter into contracts involving an expenditure of one-half (1/2)
the said statutory amount or more without advertising forbids if it determines
and declares by affirmative vote of five (5) members that an emergency exists
affecting the public health, safety or welfare and specifying the nature
thereof in its minutes.
(Amendment passed by electorate 11-8-05; Amendment passed by electorate 11-2-
10)
ARTICLE XV
NOMINATIONS AND ELECTIONS
SECTION 15.01 REGULAR MUNICIPAL ELECTION.
   The regular Municipal election shall be non-partisan and held on the first
Tuesday after the first Monday in November of odd numbered years. All ballots
and ballot labels shall be without party mark or designation.
SECTION 15.02 PRIMARY ELECTION.
   There shall be no Primary Municipal Election for selection of candidates for
any elective office of this Municipality.
SECTION 15.03 NOMINATIONS.
   Nominations for each elective Municipal Office shall be made by petition
only, on the standard Forms provided by the County Boards of Elections for the
nomination of nonpartisan candidates, filed with such Board at least ninety
(90) days before the day of election. Each petition for the nomination of a
candidate for Municipal office shall be signed by not less than twenty-five
(25) qualified electors of the Municipality.
SECTION 15.04 CAUCUS.
   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the holding of a
caucus for the purpose of selecting nominees for elective Municipal offices.
SECTION 15.05 OTHER ELECTIONS.
   Council may, by resolution, order a special election to be held at any time,
the purpose and date of which shall be set forth in the resolution.
SECTION 15.06 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   Except as otherwise provided in this Charter, the laws of Ohio applicable to
elections shall govern.
ARTICLE XVI
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION 16.01 TERMS OF PRESENT OFFICERS.
   The terms of all elective officers shall terminate with the adoption of this
Charter. Those holding offices in Council and the Mayor at the tune of the
adoption of this Charter shall thereafter continue in office with all the
powers, duties, responsibilities and remunerances provided in this Charter for
Council and Mayor until January 1, 1966, when those duly elected to the offices
of Council and Mayor shall succeed them. The position of Clerk-Treasurer shall
be assumed by the person holding the office of Village Clerk at the time of
adoption of this Charter and shall continue with all the power, duties,
responsibilities and remunerances provided in this Charter for the Clerk-
Treasurer until January 1, 1966, when the person duly elected in the November,
1965 election shall assume office. The existing term of the Treasurer shall
terminate on December 31, 1964. Any vacancy occurring in the offices of Mayor,
Council or Clerk-Treasurer prior to January 1, 1966, shall be filled in the
manner provided in this Charter and the size of the Council shall be increased
to seven (7) members prior to such date by the appointed procedure set forth
herein at Section
3.08.
SECTION 16.02 EFFECTIVE DATE OF CHARTER AND CONTINUANCE OF PRESENT OFFICERS AND
EMPLOYEES.
   The provisions of this Charter shall become effective January 1, 1965. All
officers and members of boards and commissions holding office on December 31,
1964, shall continue in office and in the performance of duties until
provisions shall have been otherwise made in accordance with this Charter for
the performance or discontinuance of the duties of any such office. Every
employee of the Municipal Government on December 31, 1964, shall continue in
such employment subject to the provisions of this Charter.
SECTION 16.03 EFFECT OF CHARTER ON EXISTING LAWS AND RIGHTS.
   The adoption of this Charter shall not affect any pre-existing rights of the
Municipality, nor any right or liability or pending suit or prosecution either
on behalf of or against the Municipality or any other officer thereof, nor any
franchise granted by the Municipality, nor pending proceedings for the
authorization of public improvements or the levy of all assessments therefor.
Except as contrary intent appears herein, all acts of the Council shall
continue in effect until lawfully amended or repealed.
   No action or proceeding pending against the Municipality or an officer
thereof shall be abated or affected by the adoption of this Charter, but all
such actions or proceedings shall be prosecuted or defended under the laws in
effect at the time of the filing thereof.
SECTION 16.04 EFFECTS OF PARTIAL INVALIDITY.
   A determination that any part of this Charter is invalid shall not
invalidate or impair the force or effect of any other part thereof, except to
the extent that such other part is wholly dependent for its operation upon the
part declared invalid.
SECTION 16.05 INTERPRETATION OF THE CHARTER.
   The Article and Section headings herein have been inserted for convenient
reference and are not intended to define or limit the scope or effect of any
provision of this Charter.
SECTION 16.06 OPENING PRAYER AT MEETINGS.
   In recognition of our dependence upon God for guidance, each regular or
special meeting of Council shall be opened with prayer by the Mayor, a member
of Council, the Clerk-Treasurer, a guest, or by the observance of not less than
one (1) minute of silent prayer.
SECTION 16.07 SUCCESSION.
   The Village of Mogadore, under this Charter, is hereby declared to be the
legal successor of the Village of Mogadore, under the laws of the State of
Ohio, and as such it has title to all property, real and personal, owned by its
predecessor including all monies on deposit and all taxes in process of
collection together with all accounts receivable and rights of action. The
Municipality is liable for all outstanding orders, contracts and debts of its
predecessors, and for any other obligations for which it may be held liable, as
such successor, by any court of competent jurisdiction. All contracts entered
into by the Municipality for its benefit prior to November 3, 1964, shall
continue in full force and effect.
SECTION 16.08 ORGANIZATION OF BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS.
   Boards and Commissions created in accordance with this Charter shall elect
their officers from the appointed members and shall determine their own rules
of procedure, except as otherwise provided in this Charter or by ordinances
enacted pursuant thereto.
ARTICLE XVII
AMENDMENTS TO CHARTER
SECTION 17.01 SUBMISSION TO ELECTORS.
   Any provision of this Charter may be amended as provided in Article XVIII
Section 9 of the Ohio Constitution, by submission of a proposed amendment to
the voters of the Municipality and approval by a majority of those voting on
the question of its adoption.
ARTICLE XVIII
CHARTER REVIEW COMMISSION
SECTION 18.01 COMPOSITION, TERM AND DATES.
   Commencing in January of 2006 and every four (4) years thereafter an eight
(8) member panel shall be appointed to review this Charter, to be known as the
Mogadore Charter Review Commission. One member of the panel shall be an
alternate without voting rights, except in the event the alternate member is
selected to fill a vacancy on the Commission. The panel will be selected in the
following manner:
   (1)   Four (4) members to be selected by the Mayor no later than February 28
of the year in which the Commission is to meet; and
   (2)   Four members to be selected by a majority vote of Council no later
than February 28 of the year in which the Commission is to meet.
   Failure of the Mayor or Council to make selections as provided herein shall
authorize the Mayor to select such members as Council failed to select, and/or
Council, by majority vote, to select such members as the Mayor failed to
select, as the case may be.
   If both the Mayor and Council fail to meet the February closing date then
the Council, by majority vote, will select all eight (8) members of the Charter
Review Commission before March 30 of the year in which the Commission is to
meet.
   Upon selection of the eight member Commission, the alternate member shall be
designated. Designation of the alternate member shall be made by voluntary
nomination or by a lottery.
   Within five (5) calendar months after such appointment, the Charter Review
Commission shall recommend to Council such revisions or additions to the
Charter, as in its judgment are desirable. The Council must submit to the
electors not later than the next succeeding general election any such proposed
alterations, revisions or amendments, unless rejected by a three-fourths (3/4)
vote of the members of Council for each proposed amendment.
(Amendment passed by electorate 7-5-00; Amendment passed by electorate 11-8-05;
Amendment passed by electorate 11-4-14)
ARTICLE XIX
INITIATIVE, REFERENDUM AND RECALL
SECTION 19.01 INITIATIVE.
   The electors of this Municipality shall have the power to propose ordinances
and other measures by initiative petition in accordance with the provisions of
the Constitution and laws of Ohio.
SECTION 19.02 REFERENDUM.
   The electors of this Municipality shall have the power to approve or reject
at the polls any ordinance or other measure enacted by Council except as
otherwise provided by this Charter or the laws of Ohio. The exercise of said
power of referendum shall be in accordance with the provision of the
Constitution and laws of Ohio.
SECTION 19.03 RECALL.
   The electors shall have the power to remove from office by a recall election
any elected officer of this Municipality. No petition shall be filed against an
elective official during the first six (6) months of such official's term of
office. The procedure to effect such removal shall be:
A.   A petition form shall be filed with the Clerk-Treasurer containing the
following:
   (1)   the name, address and signatures of five (5) electors of the Village
who, as the Recall Committee, shall be responsible for the circulation and
filing of the petition;
   (2)   the name of the elective official whose removal is sought;
   (3)   a general statement, in not more than two hundred words, of the
grounds upon which removal is sought;
   (4)   space for the printed name, residence address, date and signature of
each elector to be affixed to the petition; and
   (5)   a circulator affidavit in a form identical in content to the
following:
      "I  (Circulators Name)  under the penalty of election falsification,
circulated this petition paper and witnessed the affixing of every signature
contained on it, that all signers were to the best of my knowledge and belief
residents of the Village of Mogadore and otherwise qualified to sign, that
every signature is to the best of my knowledge and belief the signature of the
person whose signature it purports to be, and this petition paper contains
(insert number of signatures') signatures."
   The petition form as filed with the Clerk-Treasurer shall contain no
signatures other than those of the Recall Committee. Upon the filing of a
recall petition form that the Clerk-Treasurer determines meets the requirements
hereof, the Clerk-Treasurer shall announce the receipt of the petition form at
the next regular meeting of Council. No recall form may be circulated for
signatures of anyone other than the Recall Committee until announced to Council
by the Clerk-Treasurer.
B.   A recall may be commenced by the filing with the Clerk-Treasurer of recall
petitions in a form previously accepted by the Clerk-Treasurer containing the
printed name, residence address, and signature of qualified electors equal in
number to at least twenty-five percent (25%) of the total number of persons
voting in the Municipality at the last general election. The Clerk-Treasurer
shall note the name and address of the person filing the petition and the date
of such filing.
C.   Within twenty (20) days after the day on which such petition is filed, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall consult with the appropriate Board of Elections to
determine the sufficiency of the petition. Such time may be extended only upon
written certification by the Board of Elections that the petitions were timely
delivered to it by the Clerk-Treasurer and the Board of Elections required
additional time to verify the signatures contained on the petitions.
   If the Clerk-Treasurer shall find the petition insufficient, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall immediately deliver such determination to the person who filed
the petition and make a record of such delivery. The delivery shall include a
statement of the Clerk-Treasurer containing the reason the petition was
insufficient. Such person shall be allowed a period of twenty (20) days after
the date on which such delivery was made in which to make the petition
sufficient.
   If the Clerk-Treasurer finds the petition sufficient or made sufficient with
said twenty (20) days, the Clerk-Treasurer shall so certify to the Council at
its next regular meeting and immediately deliver a copy of such a certificate
to the officer whose removal is sought, and shall make a record of such
delivery.
D.   If the petition is sufficient, and if the person whose removal is sought
does not resign within five (5) days after the day of delivery of the
certificate of sufficiency, the Council shall thereupon fix a day for holding a
recall election. The date of the recall election shall be at the next scheduled
general or primary election, provided that such an election is scheduled to
occur not less than sixty days nor more than ninety days from the date of
delivery of the certificate of sufficiency. In the event no general or primary
election is scheduled within such time period, Council shall authorize a
special election for the purpose of the recall. Such special election shall
occur not less than sixty days nor more than ninety days from the date of
delivery of the certificate of sufficiency.
E.   At a recall election this question shall be placed on the ballot: "Shall
(naming the officer) be recalled from office as (name of office)?" with
provision on the ballot for voting affirmatively or negatively on such
question. If a majority of the votes cast shall be voted affirmatively, such
officer shall be considered removed upon the announcement of the official
canvass of such election, the office shall be deemed vacant, and such vacancy
shall be filled as provided in this Charter. The officer so removed shall not
be eligible for appointment to the vacancy created thereby.
F.   In the event that the petition demands the removal of the Clerk-Treasurer,
then the duties imposed upon the Clerk-Treasurer shall be performed by the
Mayor.
(Amendment passed by electorate 11-8-05)
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.05   Construction of section references
   
10.06   Conflicting provisions
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Ordinances repealed
   
10.11   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.12   Ordinances saved
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the municipality,
as revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“municipal code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified
ordinances” or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the Code. (R.C.
§ 1.01)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to such
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AND may be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   BOND. Includes an undertaking.
   CHILD. Includes child by adoption.
   COUNCIL. The Legislative Authority of the municipality.
   COUNTY. The county or counties in which the municipality is located.
   FIRE CHIEF. Shall include the Chief of a fire department if such fire
department has been established in the municipality, and shall include the Fire
Prevention Officer if no fire department has been established in the
municipality.
   IMPRISONED. Shall have the same meaning as in R.C. § 1.05.
   INTERNET. The international computer network of both federal and non-federal
interoperable packet switched data networks, including the graphical subnetwork
known as the world wide web.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of incorporeal nature.
   LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY. The Legislative Authority of the municipality.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   MUNICIPALITY, CITY, TOWN, VILLAGE, or MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. When used in
this code, shall denote the municipality irrespective of its population or
legal classification.
   O.A.C. Refers to the Ohio Administrative Code.
   OATH. Includes affirmation; and SWEAR includes affirm.
   OF UNSOUND MIND. The person lacks the relevant mental capacity.
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner, or
tenant in common of the whole or part of such property.
   PERSON. Includes an individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership, and association.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real property.
   PLAN OF SEWERAGE, SYSTEM OF SEWERAGE, SEWER, and SEWERS. Includes sewers,
sewage disposal works and treatment plants, and sewage pumping stations,
together with facilities and appurtenances necessary and proper therefor.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates, and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state, or federal government, its officers, or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   R.C. or REVISED CODE. Refers to the Ohio Revised Code.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail; and CERTIFIED MAIL includes
registered mail.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The State of Ohio.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the municipality.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of such
premises, alone or with others.
   UNDERTAKING. Includes a bond.
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents, and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WRITING. Includes printing.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. The terms include any representation of words,
letters, symbols, or figures; this provision does not affect any law relating
to signatures.
   YEAR. Twelve consecutive months.
(R.C. §§ 1.02, 1.05, 1.44, 1.59, 701.01)
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Common and technical usage. Words and phrases shall be read in context
and construed according to the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and
phrases that have acquired a technical or particular meaning, whether by
legislative definition or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly. (R.C. §
1.42)
   (B)   Singular and plural; gender; tenses. As used in the code, unless the
context otherwise requires:
      (1)   The singular includes the plural, and the plural includes the
singular.
      (2)   Words of one gender include the other genders.
      (3)   Words in the present tense include the future. (R.C. § 1.43)
   (C)   Calendar; computation of time.
      (1)   The time within which an act is required by law to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day; except that when
the last day falls on Sunday or a legal holiday, then the act may be done on
the next succeeding day which is not a Sunday or a legal holiday.
      (2)   When a public office, in which an act required by law is to be
performed, is closed to the public for the entire day that constitutes the last
day for doing the act or before its usual closing time on that day, then such
act may be performed on the next succeeding day that is not a Sunday or a legal
holiday.
      (3)   LEGAL HOLIDAY, as used in divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) of this
section, means the following days:
         (a)   The first day of January, known as New Year’s day;
         (b)   The third Monday in January, known as Martin Luther King day;
         (c)   The third Monday in February, known as Washington-Lincoln day;
         (d)   The day designated in the “Act of June 28, 1968,” 82 Stat. 250,
5 U.S.C. § 6103, as amended, for the commemoration of Memorial day;
         (e)   The nineteenth day of June, known as Juneteenth day;
         (f)   The fourth day of July, known as Independence day;
         (g)   The first Monday in September, known as Labor day;
         (h)   The second Monday in October, known as Columbus day;
         (i)   The eleventh day of November, known as Veteran’s day;
         (j)   The fourth Thursday in November, known as Thanksgiving day;
         (k)   The twenty-fifth day of December, known as Christmas day;
         (l)   Any day appointed and recommended by the Governor of this state
or the President of the United States as a holiday.
      (4)   If any day designated in this section as a legal holiday falls on a
Sunday, the next succeeding day is a legal holiday.
(R.C. § 1.14)
      (5)   When an act is to take effect or become operative from and after a
day named, no part of that day shall be included. If priority of legal rights
depends upon the order of events on the same day, such priority shall be
determined by the times in the day at which they respectively occurred. (R.C. §
1.15)
      (6)   If a number of months is to be computed by counting the months from
a particular day, the period ends on the same numerical day in the concluding
month as the day of the month from which the computation is begun, unless there
are not that many days in the concluding month, in which case the period ends
on the last day of that month. (R.C. § 1.45)
      (7)   In all cases where the law shall require any act to be done in a
reasonable time or reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or notice
shall mean such time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of
such duty or compliance with such notice.
   (D)   Numbers. If there is a conflict between figures and words in
expressing a number, the words govern. (R.C. § 1.46)
   (E)   Authority. When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as
well be done by an agent as by the principal, such requirement shall be
construed to include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (F)   Joint authority. All words purporting to give joint authority to three
or more municipal officers or other persons shall be construed as giving such
authority to a majority of such officers or other persons, unless it shall be
otherwise expressly declared in the law giving the authority, or it is
inconsistent with state law or Charter provisions.
   (G)   Exceptions. The rules of construction shall not apply to any law which
shall contain any express provision excluding such construction, or when the
subject matter or context of such law may be repugnant thereto.
§ 10.04 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing statute does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein. (R.C. §
1.57)
   (B)   The re-enactment, amendment, or repeal of an ordinance does not,
except as provided in division (C) of this section:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation, or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded, or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal;
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding, or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment; and the
investigation, proceeding, or remedy may be instituted, continued, or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment for any offense is reduced
by a re-enactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture, or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended. (R.C. § 1.58)
   (D)   An ordinance which is re-enacted or amended is intended to be a
continuation of the prior ordinance and not a new enactment, so far as it is
the same as the prior ordinance.
(R.C. § 1.54)
§ 10.05 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, such reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code. (R.C. §
1.23)
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.06 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of this code or the application thereof to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions or applications of the section or related sections which can
be given effect without the invalid provision or application, and to this end
the provisions are severable.
(R.C. § 1.50)
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the village exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of such error.
§ 10.10 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
legislative body, or a certain municipal officer or employee, to make
additional ordinances or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the
intention of the ordinance, all ordinances and regulations of a similar nature
serving the purpose, effected prior to the codification and not inconsistent
thereto, shall remain in effect, and are saved.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty of fine or imprisonment is otherwise provided, the
offender shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned for not more than six
months, or both, for each offense or violation.
Cross-reference:
   Misdemeanor classifications, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Penalty for violation of municipal ordinances, see R.C. § 715.67
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   EXECUTIVE
      
32.   LEGISLATIVE
      
33.   JUDICIAL
      
34.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
35.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
36.   CIVIL ACTIONS AGAINST THE VILLAGE
      
37.   MUNICIPAL INCOME TAX
      
38.   VILLAGE POLICY
      
39.   INVESTMENT POLICY
      
40.   MOGADORE VACANCY PROGRAM
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Application of Title III
   
30.02   Qualifications; oaths
   
30.03   Bonds of officers and employees; amount of
   
30.04   Approval of bonds
   
30.05   Sufficiency of form of bond
   
30.06   Filling vacancies in offices
   
30.07   Dual signatures required on all checks
§ 30.01 APPLICATION OF TITLE III.
   Title III of this code of ordinances is designed to include and incorporate,
insofar as is practical, all legislation concerning the organization,
qualifications, appointment or election, terms of office, compensation, and the
powers and duties of the officials, boards, and bodies of the village.
Pertinent sections of the Revised Code of Ohio relative to these offices and
boards have been assembled and adopted as a part of this title. No material
changes of the code sections referred to by annotation have been made. The
purpose of including these sections is to afford easy reference to the
statutory provisions.
§ 30.02 QUALIFICATIONS; OATHS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section or in
another section of the Revised Code, each officer of the municipality or of any
department or board of the municipality, whether elected or appointed as a
substitute for a regular officer, shall be an elector of the municipality and,
before entering upon official duties, shall take an oath to support the
Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State and an oath
that the officer will faithfully, honestly, and impartially discharge the
duties of the office to which elected or appointed. These provisions as to
official oaths shall extend to deputies, but they need not be electors.
   (B)   Neither this section nor any section of the Revised Code requires, or
shall be construed to require, that a Fire Chief be an elector of the village.
(R.C. § 733.68)
§ 30.03 BONDS OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES; AMOUNT OF.
   Before entering upon the discharge of his duties, each officer and employee,
where such is required by the municipal authority, shall execute a bond
approved according to law in the amount set forth for his respective office or
position.
§ 30.04 APPROVAL OF BONDS.
   The official bonds of all municipal officers shall be prepared by the
Solicitor. Except as otherwise provided in state law, they shall be in a sum as
the Council prescribes by general or special ordinance, and be subject to the
approval of the Mayor, except that the Mayor's bond shall be approved by the
Council, or, if it is not legally organized, by the clerk of the court of
common pleas of the county in which the corporation or the larger part thereof
is situated.
(R.C. § 733.70)
§ 30.05 SUFFICIENCY OF FORM OF BOND.
   In each bond mentioned in §
30.04, the condition that the person elected or appointed shall faithfully
perform the duties of the office shall be sufficient. The fact that the
instrument is without a seal, that blanks for the date or amount have been
filled subsequent to its execution but before its acceptance, without the
consent of the sureties, that all the obligees named in the instrument have not
signed it, that new duties have been imposed on the officers or that any merely
formal objection exists shall not be available in any suit on the instrument.
(R.C. § 733.71)
§ 30.06 FILLING VACANCIES IN OFFICES.
Editor's note:
   For provisions concerning vacancies in various offices, see Charter § §
3.08,
4.03 and
5.03
§ 30.07 DUAL SIGNATURES REQUIRED ON ALL CHECKS.
   (A)   The Mayor and Clerk-Treasurer shall sign all village checks.
   (B)   In the event the Mayor is unavailable, the President of Council shall
sign checks with the Clerk- Treasurer.
   (C)   In the event both the Mayor and the President of Council are
unavailable, the Chairman of the Finance Committee shall sign checks with the
Clerk-Treasurer.
   (D)   All persons named in this section as qualified to sign checks shall be
bonded.
   (E)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to obtain, at village expense,
sufficient bonding for those persons authorized to sign checks.
(Ord. 16, passed 5-7-03)
CHAPTER 31: EXECUTIVE
Editor's note:
   For provisions concerning the executive powers of the village, especially
the Mayor and Clerk-Treasurer, see Charter Articles IV and V. For provisions
concerning the Law Director, see Charter Article VIII. For provisions
concerning the Department of Public Service, see Charter Article VI.
CHAPTER 32: LEGISLATIVE
Section
Rules of Council
   
32.01   Meetings
   
32.02   Organization
   
32.03   Parliamentary procedures
   
32.04   Debate and decorum
   
32.05   Amendment of rules
Editor's note:
   For provisions concerning the Council, see Charter Article III.
Cross-reference:
   Smoking prohibited in Council chambers, see §
38.02
Statutory reference:
   Ordinances and resolutions, R.C. § § 731.17 through 731.27
RULES OF COUNCIL
§ 32.01 MEETINGS.
   Regular meetings of the Village Council shall be on the first and third
Wednesdays of each month in the Council Chambers of the Mogadore Municipal
buildings or as otherwise permitted by law. Each regular meeting as set forth
in this chapter shall commence at 5:30 p.m. or as soon thereafter as practical.
In the event that any regular meeting conflicts with the celebration of a
holiday, Council shall meet in regular session on a different date selected by
a majority vote of Council for the same time and place.
(Ord. 58-1985. passed 9-18-85; Am. Ord. 2022-36, passed 5-4-22)
§ 32.02 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   Council shall set the time and date of regular meetings and shall
establish its Rules of Procedures.
   (B)   All meetings of the Council shall be public as provided by Ohio law
and any citizen shall have access to the minutes and records of these meetings
at all reasonable times.
   (C)   The elective officers of this Council shall be the President of
Council and any others that Council deems necessary.
   (D)   The President of Council shall be elected at the organizational
meeting of Council to be held within the first ten days of January of even
numbered years.
   (E)   The President of Council shall recommend one member of Council to
chair each of the six permanent committees of Council and two additional voting
members to serve on each committee.
   (F)   The officers of Council, Chairmen of Council Committees, and members
of said committees shall serve at the pleasure of Council. A vote of the
majority of the members of Council shall be required to confirm the appointment
or remove them from such positions.
   (G)   The President of Council shall be a non-voting member of each of the
committees and may not serve as chairman of any of the said committee.
   (H)   In the absence of a quorum at any committee meeting, the President of
Council may fill in for any absent member of Council and when doing so shall
have voting privileges.
   (I)   In the event of the death, resignation, or removal of a Council
member, the President of Council will serve such Council member's role as a
regular committee member with full powers for a maximum of 30 days. The
President will fill any vacancy occurring on a committee within 30 days after
the vacancy occurs by appointing another member of Council to fill the
unexpired term.
   (J)   The permanent committees of Council shall be as follows:
      (1)   Finance/Audit;
      (2)   Utilities;
      (3)   Planning and Zoning;
      (4)   Safety;
      (5)   Streets/Service and Grounds; and
      (6)   Parks and Recreation and Cemetery.
   (K)   The President of Council may appoint special committees as are
necessary to carry out the duties of Council, subject to the approval of a
majority of Council.
   (L)   The Council may resolve itself into a Committee of the Whole when it
wishes so that the entire Council may consider an issue.
   (M)   Unless the President of Council determines and announces an
alternative date, the permanent Council Committees shall meet in the Council
Chambers on the fourth Wednesday of each month. The Clerk, or the Clerk's
designate, will be present to take minutes at the Committee meetings and will
provide a brief list of the meetings, and will provide a brief list of all
matters before committees.
   (N)   The Committees shall consider every ordinance or resolution submitted
to Council. Unless approved by two-thirds of Council, no ordinance or
resolution shall be approved by Council until it has been considered and
approved by the appropriate committee. Anything referred to a committee must be
discussed at the next regular meeting of that committee or at any special
meeting of that committee.
   (O)   Committees containing three members must have two members present for
a quorum. A majority vote of the members present is necessary to take action.
   (P)   Council has the power to admonish or expel from a committee, any
members for failure to attend three consecutive committee meetings unless
excused by the chairman or said committee or the President of Council.
   (Q)   In order to be excused from a Council meeting, a member must notify
the Council President, if he is unable to attend the Council meeting.
   (R)   In the absence of a quorum, the Chairman has the option to appoint
another member of Council to the vacant seat on his committee.
   (S)   No business shall be transacted at any special meeting of Council
except the specific business for which said meeting was called.
   (T)   In the event an ordinance or resolution is introduced by a member or
members of Council, such ordinance or resolution shall bear the name of the
individual or individuals sponsoring such legislation.
(Ord. 58-1985. passed 9-18-85; Am. Ord. 17-1994, passed 3-16-94; Am. Res. 85,
passed 12-7-06; Am. Ord. 24, passed 4-19-06; Am. Ord. 2022-36, passed 5-4-22)
§ 32.03 PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURES.
   (A)   At the time appointed for the Council to meet, the Mayor, or the
President of Council in the absence of the Mayor, shall take the chair and
immediately call the meeting to order.
   (B)   Before proceeding with the business of Council the Clerk shall call
the roll and enter in the minutes the members who are present, absent, or
excused by Council.
   (C)   A majority of all the members of Council shall constitute a quorum. In
the absence of a quorum a majority of the members present may vote to recess
for not more than one hour in order to compel the attendance of absent members.
   (D)   Order of business at all regular Council meetings:
      (1)   Prayer;
      (2)   Pledge to the Flag;
      (3)   Roll Call;
      (4)   Approval of the Agenda;
      (5)   Minutes presented for correction, changes and adoption;
      (6)   Comments from audience on pending legislation;
      (7)   Committee reports;
      (8)   Comments on the bills;
      (9)   Old Business;
      (10) New Business;
      (11) Comments section:
         (a)   Public comment;
         (b)   Comments from the Mayor;
         (c)   Comments from the Clerk-Treasurer; and
         (d)   Comments from the Council;
      (12) Adjournment.
   (E)   These rules of procedure may be temporarily suspended by an
affirmative vote of two-thirds of the members of Council.
   (F)   When a motion has been made, the chair shall state the question, which
places the motion before Council. Following debate, the Chair shall put the
question and announce the results of the vote.
   (G)   The President of Council and any other member of Council may demand a
division, which shall be taken by a roll call. The motion calling the previous
question closes debate, stops further amendments to the last motion and brings
it to an immediate vote. The previous question applies only to the last motion
made. It is not in order for a member of Council to speak to the question under
consideration or to make a motion and immediately demand the previous
questions.
   (H)   Any member who previously voted with the prevailing side may move to
reconsider any vote or proceeding of the Council. This motion shall be made not
later than the next regular meeting. An action by Council may be reconsidered
only once.
   (I)   Raising a question of privilege is a motion which may interrupt
pending business because of its necessity for immediate consideration. When a
member raises the question of privilege, the presiding officer determines if it
is indeed a question of privilege and if it is urgent enough to interrupt
pending business. There are two types of questions of privilege. The first is
that of Council as a whole and may pertain to such matters as the organization
or existence of Council; the comfort or conduct of officers; employees or
visitors; punishment of members; the accuracy of published reports of the
proceedings; requests to go into executive session; etc. The second matter
pertains to the question of personal privilege and may concern an incorrect
record of a member's participation in a meeting; charges being circulated
against a member's character; etc. The first type takes precedence. If it is a
simple question of privilege, the matter may be handled informally. If it is
deemed to be of major importance, the issue may be considered by Council before
pending business is resumed.
   (J)   While Council is in session at any regular meeting, special meeting or
meeting of Council as a Committee of the Whole, the presiding officer shall
have the authority to order the removal by the Sgt. of Arms or the Mogadore
Police Dept., any person or persons who refuse to obey the Rules of Council or
who disturbs or interrupts said meeting to the extent of preventing the
transaction of business.
   (K)   A point of order is the motion made when a Council member thinks the
Rules of Council are being violated. This motion may be made when another
member has the floor and does not require a second. The presiding officer must
determine the validity of the motion. If the decision is that the Rules are
being violated, the presiding officer shall enforce the Rules of Council.
   (L)   A point of information is a request by a member of Council to the
presiding officer requesting information relevant to the business at hand. The
presiding officer shall direct the request to the appropriate person and all
information shall be exchanged through the presiding officer in order to
maintain decorum.
   (M) When Council resolves itself into a Committee of the Whole, the Mayor
shall leave the chair and the Council shall select a chairman. The rules of
Council shall be observed in the Committee of the Whole, if applicable. The
Council may establish time limitations for debate and discussion.
   (N)   No member shall be allowed to speak longer than five minutes at one
time without permission from the chair.
   (O)   An appeal to the Council from the decision of the Chair may be by
motion of any member, if duly seconded. The question shall not be debatable. On
such an appeal, the question shall be stated as follows: “An appeal has been
taken from the decision of the Chair: You who are of the opinion that the
appeal shall be heard will say “aye”, and you who are apposed will say “no”. If
the majority of the members of Council shall decide to hear the appeal, the
Chair, at once shall be vacated and the President of Council shall preside, or
in his absence on being required to vacate the Chair, the occupant shall call
any member of the Council to the Chair to preside over the appeal. The occupant
of the Chair from whom the appeal is taken may participate in a debate on the
appeal. The debate may be closed by a call for the question unless objection is
raised in which event a majority vote of the members of Council: “You who are
of the opinion that the decision of the Chair shall stand as a judgment of the
Council, say “aye”, and you who are of the opinion that the decision of the
Chair shall not stand as the judgment of the Council say “no”. Thereafter, the
presiding officer shall presume the Chair and the business of the Council
proceed.
   (P)   Any member of Council may protest against the actions of the Council
and upon request shall have his reasons for protest entered upon the Council
Record.
   (Q)   In the absence of any rule governing matters of business in either the
Rules of Council, the Statutes of the State of Ohio, or the Village Charter,
Roberts Rules of Order, Newly Revised, shall be the standard of parliamentary
usage.
(Ord. 58-1985. passed 9-18-85; Am. Ord. 24, passed 4-19-06)
§ 32.04 DEBATE AND DECORUM.
   (A)   The Chair shall preserve decorum and maintain order at all times,
prevent personal reflections during debate and in making assignments, and
confine members to the question before Council. The Chair or any other member
of Council may call to order any member who violates any of these rules. This
decision shall be subject to an appeal to Council at the request of one member,
who shall state the reasons for the appeal. There shall be no debate on such an
appeal, but the Chair shall have the right to answer the appeal.
   (B)   When Council members wish to speak they shall address themselves to
the Chair and shall not speak until recognized by the Chair. No member shall
speak more than once on the same motion until every member who so desires shall
have had an opportunity to speak on that motion. The speaker shall not be
interrupted except by the Mayor, who only may confine the member to the motion
under discussion.
   (C)   No member shall leave the Council floor while a meeting is in session
without the permission of the chair. Any member leaving without permission may
be admonished for this by a majority vote of the Council.
   (D)   The use of profane or vulgar language is forbidden, either by Council
member, Mayor, or any others attending a meeting of Council. At the request of
any member attending the meeting, one warning will be issued by the Chair and
any further violations are grounds for removal.
   (E)   No unsigned letters shall be read or summarized. The Clerk of Council
shall review, prior to Council meeting, all correspondence. No correspondence
shall be publicly read that is of an inflammatory nature or that would tend to
embarrass, degrade, ridicule or humiliate any person. Correspondence determined
by the Clerk to fall within the intent of this rule shall be turned over to the
President of the Council for disposition and circulation to all members of
Council. All correspondence shall be summarized and none shall be read in full
unless requested by Council.
   (F)   (1)   All residents shall be afforded the right to speak at all
Council meetings, however, they must limit their choice of topics to one (1)
per meeting. For purposes of this section, a resident shall include owners of
properties within the Village or persons that operate a business within the
Village.
      (2)   Non-residents that seek to offer comments shall register their
topic with the Village Clerk- Treasurer no later than 4:00 p.m. on the Tuesday
preceding the Council meeting they wish to address. No unsigned requests shall
be accepted by the Clerk-Treasurer. Permission to speak shall remain subject to
the approval of both the Mayor and the Council President. Upon such approval
and recognition, the party shall address the Chair, and state his or her name
and address. All remarks must be confined to the merits of the registered
topic. Speakers will be courteous and avoid the discussion of personalities.
      (3)   All public comment will be restricted to three (3) minutes and
shall be restricted to legislation currently pending before Council or other
matters on which Council action is desired.
(Ord. 58-1985. passed 9-18-85; Am. Ord. 24, passed 4-19-06)
§ 32.05 AMENDMENT OF RULES.
   These rules may be amended or altered or new rules adopted by a vote of two-
thirds of the members of Council at any meeting of the Council on the report of
the Committee to which the subject has been referred at a previous meeting.
(Ord. 58-1985. passed 9-18-85)
CHAPTER 33: JUDICIAL
Section
   
33.01   Jurisdiction in ordinance cases and traffic violations
   
33.02   Powers of Mayor in criminal matters
   
33.03   Duties; fees; office; seal
   
33.04   Mayor's court magistrate
§ 33.01 JURISDICTION IN ORDINANCE CASES AND TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The Mayor has jurisdiction, except as provided in divisions (B), (C),
and (E) of this section and subject to the limitation contained in R.C. §
1905.03 and the limitation contained in R.C. § 1905.031, to hear and determine
any prosecution for the violation of an ordinance of the village, to hear and
determine any case involving a violation of a vehicle parking or standing
ordinance of the village unless the violation is required to be handled by a
parking violations bureau or joint parking violations bureau pursuant to R.C.
Chapter 4521, and to hear and determine all criminal cases involving any moving
traffic violation occurring on a state highway located within the boundaries of
the village, subject to the limitations of R.C. § § 2937.08 and 2938.04.
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor has jurisdiction, subject to the limitation contained
in R.C. § 1905.03, to hear and determine prosecutions involving a violation of
an ordinance of the village relating to operating a vehicle while under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them or relating to
operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled
substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath, or urine, and to hear and determine criminal causes
involving a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance that occur on a state highway located within the boundaries of the
village, subject to the limitations of R.C. § § 2937.08 and 2938.04, only if
the person charged with the violation, within ten years of the date of the
violation charged, has not been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any of the
following:
         (a)   A violation of an ordinance of any municipality relating to
operating a vehicle while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a
combination of them or relating to operating a vehicle with a prohibited
concentration of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a
controlled substance in the whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or
urine;
         (b)    A violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance;
         (c)   A violation of any ordinance of any municipality or of any
section of the Revised Code that regulates the operation of vehicles, upon the
streets, in relation to which all of the following apply:
            1.   The person, in the case in which the conviction was obtained
or the plea of guilty was entered, had been charged with a violation of an
ordinance of a type described in division (B)(1)(a) of this section, or with a
violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
            2.   The charge of the violation described in division (B)(1)(c)1.
of this section was dismissed or reduced;
            3.   The violation of which the person was convicted or to which he
or she pleaded guilty arose out of the same facts and circumstances and the
same act as did the charge that was dismissed or reduced.
         (d)   A violation of a statute of the United States or of any other
state or a municipal ordinance of a municipality located in any other state
that is substantially equivalent to R.C. § 4511.19.
      (2)   The Mayor does not have jurisdiction to hear and determine any
prosecution or criminal cause involving a violation described in division (B)
(1)(a) or (B)(1)(b) of this section, regardless of where the violation
occurred, if the person charged with the violation, within ten years of the
violation charged, has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation
listed in division (B)(1)(a), (B)(1)(b), (B)(1)(c), or (B)(1)(d) of this
section.
      (3)   If the Mayor, in hearing a prosecution involving a violation of an
ordinance of the village relating to operating a vehicle while under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them or relating to
operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled
substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath, or urine, or in hearing a criminal cause involving a
violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
determines that the person charged, within ten years of the violation charged,
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation listed in division (B)
(1)(a), (B)(1)(b), (B)(1)(c), or (B)(1)(d) of this section, the Mayor
immediately shall transfer the case to the county court or municipal court with
jurisdiction over the violation charged, in accordance with R.C. § 1905.032.
   (C)   (1)   The Mayor, subject to R.C. § § 1901.031, 2937.08, and 2938.04,
has jurisdiction to hear and determine prosecutions involving a violation of a
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to R.C. § 4510.14(A) or
4510.16 and to hear and determine criminal causes that involve a moving traffic
violation, that involve a violation of R.C. § 4510.14(A) or 4510.16, and that
occur on a state highway located within the boundaries of the village only if
all of the following apply regarding the violation and the person charged:
         (a)   Regarding a violation of R.C. § 4510.16 or a violation of a
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to that division, the
person charged with the violation, within six years of the date of the
violation charged, has not been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any of the
following:
            1.   A violation of R.C. § 4510.16.
            2.   A violation of a municipal ordinance is substantially
equivalent to R.C. § 4510.16.
            3.   A violation of any municipal ordinance or section of the
Revised Code that regulates the operation of vehicles upon the highways or
streets, in a case in which, after a charge against the person of a violation
of a type described in division (C)(1)(a)1. or (C)(1)(a)2. of this section was
dismissed or reduced, the person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
violation that arose out of the same facts and circumstances and the same act
as did the charge that was dismissed or reduced.
         (b)   Regarding a violation of R.C. § 4510.14(A) or a violation of a
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to that division, the
person charged with the violation, within six years of the date of the
violation charged, has not been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any of the
following:
            1.   A violation of R.C. § 4510.14(A).
            2.   A violation of a municipal ordinance that is substantially
equivalent to R.C. § 4510.14(A).
            3.   A violation of any municipal ordinance or section of the
Revised Code that regulates the operation of vehicles upon the highways or
streets, in a case in which, after a charge against the person of a violation
of a type described in division (C)(1)(b)1. or (C)(1)(b)2. of this section was
dismissed or reduced, the person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
violation that arose out of the same facts and circumstances and the same act
as did the charge that was dismissed or reduced.
      (2)   The Mayor does not have jurisdiction to hear and determine any
prosecution or criminal cause involving a violation described in division (C)
(1)(a)1. or (C)(1)(a)2. of this section if the person charged with the
violation, within six years of the violation charged, has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to any violation listed in division (C)(1)(a)1. through (C)(1)
(a)3. of this section and does not have jurisdiction to hear and determine any
prosecution or criminal cause involving a violation described in division (C)
(1)(b)1. or (C)(1)(a)2. of this section if the person charged with the
violation, within six years of the violation charged, has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to any violation listed in division (C)(1)(b)1. through (C)(1)
(a)3. of this section.
      (3)   If the Mayor, in hearing a prosecution involving a violation of an
ordinance of the village that is substantially equivalent to R.C. § 4510.14(A)
or 4510.16 or a violation of R.C. § 4510.14(A) or 4510.16, determines that,
under division (C)(2) of this section, he or she does not have jurisdiction of
the prosecution, the Mayor immediately shall transfer the case to the county
court or municipal court with jurisdiction over the violation in accordance
with R.C. § 1905.032.
   (D)   If the Mayor has jurisdiction pursuant to division (B)(1) of this
section to hear and determine a prosecution or criminal cause involving a
violation described in division (B)(1)(a) or (B)(1)(b) of this section, the
authority of the Mayor to hear or determine the prosecution or cause is subject
to the limitation contained in R.C. § 1905.03(C). If the Mayor has jurisdiction
pursuant to division (A) or (C) of this section to hear and determine a
prosecution or criminal cause involving a violation other than a violation
described in division (B)(1)(a) or (B)(1)(b) of this section, the authority of
the Mayor to hear or determine the prosecution or cause is subject to the
limitation contained in R.C. § 1905.031(C).
   (E)   (1)   The Mayor does not have the jurisdiction to hear and determine
any prosecution or criminal cause involving any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of R.C. § 2919.25 or 2919.27;
         (b)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.11, 2903.12, 2903.13, 2903.211 or
2911.211 that involves a person who was a family or household member of the
defendant at the time of the violation;
         (c)   A violation of a municipal ordinance that is substantially
equivalent to an offense described in division (E)(1)(a) or (E)(1)(b) of this
section and that involves a person who was a family or household member of the
defendant at the time of the violation.
      (2)   The Mayor does not have the jurisdiction to hear and determine a
motion filed pursuant to R.C. § 2919.26 or filed pursuant to a municipal
ordinance that is substantially equivalent to that section or to issue a
protection order pursuant to that section or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
      (3)   As used in this section, FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 2919.25.
   (F)   In keeping a docket and files, the Mayor and a mayor's court
magistrate appointed under R.C. § 1905.05 shall be governed by the laws
pertaining to county courts.
(R.C. § 1905.01)
Cross-reference:
   Mayor, see Charter Article IV
§ 33.02 POWERS OF MAYOR IN CRIMINAL MATTERS.
   (A)   The Mayor has, within the corporation limits, all the powers conferred
upon sheriffs to suppress disorder and keep the peace.
   (B)   The Mayor shall award and issue all writs and process that are
necessary to enforce the administration of justice throughout the village. The
Mayor shall subscribe his or her name and affix his or her official seal to all
writs, process, transcripts, and other official papers. A mayor's court
magistrate, in hearing and determining prosecutions and criminal causes that
are within the scope of his or her authority under R.C. § 1905.05, has the same
powers and duties as are granted to or imposed upon the Mayor under this
division.
   (C)   The Mayor shall be disqualified in any criminal case in which he or
she was the arresting officer, assisted in the arrest, or was present at the
time of arrest, and shall not hear the case.
(R.C. § 1905.20)
§ 33.03 DUTIES; FEES; OFFICE; SEAL.
   (A)   The Mayor and a mayor's court magistrate shall keep a docket. Neither
the Mayor nor a mayor's court magistrate shall retain or receive for his or her
own use any of the fines, forfeitures, fees, or costs he or she collects. A
mayor's court magistrate shall account for all such fines, forfeitures, fees,
and costs he or she collects and transfer them to the Mayor. The Mayor shall
account for and dispose of all such fines, forfeitures, fees, and costs he or
she collects, including all such fines, forfeitures, fees, and costs that are
transferred to him or her by a mayor's court magistrate, as provided in R.C. §
733.40.
   (B)   The Mayor shall be paid such fixed annual salary as the Council
provides under R.C. § § 731.08 and 731.13, and a mayor's court magistrate shall
receive compensation as provided in R.C. § 1905.05.
   (C)   The Mayor shall keep an office, provided by the Council, at a
convenient place in the village, and shall be furnished by the Council with the
corporate seal of the village. In the center of the seal shall be the words,
“Mayor of the Village of Mogadore.”
(R.C. § 1905.21)
§ 33.04 MAYOR'S COURT MAGISTRATE.
   (A)   The Mayor may appoint a person as mayor's court magistrate to hear and
determine prosecutions and criminal cases in the mayor's court that are within
the jurisdiction of the mayor's court, as set forth in R.C. § 1905.01. No
person shall be appointed as a mayor's court magistrate unless the person has
been admitted to the practice of law in this state and, for a total of at least
three years preceding the person's appointment or the commencement of the
person's service as magistrate, has been engaged in the practice of law in this
state or served as a judge of a court of record in any jurisdiction in the
United States, or both.
      (1)   A person appointed as a mayor's court magistrate under this
division is entitled to hear and determine prosecutions and criminal cases in
the mayor's court that are within the jurisdiction of the mayor's court, as set
forth in R.C. § 1905.01. If the Mayor is prohibited from hearing or determining
a prosecution or cause that charges a person with a violation of R.C. § 4511.19
or a municipal OVI ordinance as defined in R.C. § 4511.181 due to the operation
of R.C. § 1905.03(C), or is prohibited from hearing or determining any other
prosecution or cause due to the operation of R.C. § 1905.031(C), the
prohibition against the Mayor hearing or determining the prosecution or causes
does not affect and shall not be construed as affecting the jurisdiction or
authority of a person appointed as a mayor's court magistrate under this
division to hear and determine the prosecution or cause in accordance with this
section. In hearing and determining such prosecutions and causes, the
magistrate has the same powers, duties, and authority as does a mayor who
conducts a mayor's court to hear and determine prosecutions and causes in
general, including, but not limited to, the power and authority to decide the
prosecution or cause, enter judgement, and impose sentence; the powers, duties,
and authority granted to mayors of mayor's courts by this chapter, in relation
to the hearing and determination of prosecutions and causes in mayor's courts;
and the powers, duties, and authority granted to mayors of mayor's courts by
any other provisions of the Revised Code, in relation to the hearing and
determination of prosecutions and causes in mayor's courts. A judgement entered
and a sentence imposed by a mayor's court magistrate do not have to be reviewed
or approved by the mayor who appointed the magistrate, and have the same force
and effect as if they had been entered or imposed by the Mayor.
      (2)   A person appointed as a mayor's court magistrate under this
division is not entitled to hear or determine any prosecution or criminal cause
other than prosecutions and causes that are within the jurisdiction of the
mayor's court, as set forth in R.C. § 1905.01.
      (3)   A municipal corporation that a mayor's court magistrate serves
shall pay the compensation for the services of the magistrate, which shall be
either a fixed annual salary set by the Council or a fixed annual amount or
fees for services rendered set under a contract the magistrate and the
municipal corporation enter into.
   (B)   The appointment of a person as a mayor's court magistrate under
division (A) of this section does not preclude the Mayor that appointed the
magistrate, subject to the limitation contained in R.C. § 1905.03 and the
limitation contained in R.C. § 1905.031, from also hearing and determining
prosecutions and criminal causes in the mayor's court that are within the
jurisdiction of the mayor's court, as set forth in R.C. § 1905.01.
(R.C. § 1905.05)
CHAPTER 34: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Editor's note:  
   For provisions concerning the Police Department, see Charter §§
7.03 and
7.05
CHAPTER 35: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
Emergency Medical Service
   
35.01   Village to provide emergency medical service
   
35.02   Definitions
   
35.03   Fees
   
35.04   Employee handbook
Editor's note:
   For additional provisions concerning the Fire Department, see Charter §§
7.04 and
7.05
EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICE
§ 35.01 VILLAGE TO PROVIDE EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICE.
   To the extent that adequate manpower and equipment is available, the village
shall provide emergency medical service in response to a call for such service
within the village and outside of the village under provisions of a mutual aid
agreement or applicable law permitting mutual aid.
(Ord. 7, passed 3-16-05)
§ 35.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVANCED LIFE SUPPORT. A multifaceted system designed to resuscitate,
stabilize, transport, and give definitive care to a victim of severe need basis
or trauma. In the pre-hospital phase, this care is usually delivered by
emergency medical technician-paramedics (EMT-P) who are trained to use the
treatment mobilities, such as advanced airway management, placement of
intravenous line, electrical defibrillation, and administration of medication
to stabilize the patient and prepare him or her for transport.
   AMBULANCE or EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICE VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle that is
used, or is intended to be used, for the purpose of transporting patients in a
prone, supine or horizontal position. This shall also include any motor vehicle
used, or intended to be used, for the purpose of  responding to any emergency
or life-threatening situation, while providing emergency medical service, the
transportation of emergency patients, and the administration of emergency care
procedures to those patients before or during the transportation.
   BASIC LIFE SUPPORT. Any pre-hospital non-invasive intervention by personnel
certified at the level of EMT-Basic as described in R.C. Ch. 4765. Such
interventions include, but are not limited to, non-invasive methods of airway
control, oxygen administration, bleeding control, splinting of fractures,
treatment of shock, patient assessment, and recording vital signs.
   EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN or EMT. Emergency medical technician-ambulance,
advanced emergency medical technician-ambulance and emergency medical
technician-paramedic as defined below, unless otherwise specified:
      (1)   ADVANCED EMT-A (ADV EMT-A). Emergency medical technician-ambulance
as defined below, but further certified under R.C. § § 3303.08 et seq.
      (2)   EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-AMBULANCE (EMT-A). An individual
certified under R.C. § § 3303.08 et seq.
      (3)   EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-PARAMEDIC (EMT-P). An EMERGENCY
MEDICAL TECHNICIAN PARAMEDIC (EMT-P) shall be specifically trained beyond the
EMT-A and ADV-EMT levels as defined above, and certified under R.C. § § 3303.08
et seq.
   MEDICAL CONTROL. A designated medical facility staffed by the appropriate
emergency medical service personnel which provides prompt physician supervision
through radio or telephonic communication to the paramedic in the field and
which directs the transportation of the patient to the appropriate facility for
definitive care.
   NON-RESIDENT. For purposes of this subchapter only, a person not domiciled
within the village or otherwise considered a resident under the definition of
resident in this section.
   PATIENT. An individual who is sick, injured, wounded, or otherwise
incapacitated or helpless.
   RESIDENT. For purpose of this section only:
      (1)   A person domiciled within the village; or
      (2)   A person domiciled within the municipal boundaries of any city,
village, or township with a mutual aid agreement with the village when the
emergency service is being supplied pursuant to such mutual aid agreement.
   TRANSPORT. To carry or convey a person by publicly owned or operated motor
vehicle being used in response to a call for emergency medical service from one
location to another.
(Ord. 7, passed 3-16-05; Am. Ord. 2019-16, passed 2-20-19)
§ 35.03 FEES.
   (A)   (1)   Effective July 1, 2019, each person receiving emergency medical
service from the village shall pay a utilization charge as determined in the
village’s duly adopted EMS fee table.
      (2)   As long as the village is a designated Medicare, Medicaid and/or
Workers’ Compensation provider, the village shall accept as total payment the
rates and co-payments established for all individuals covered by these programs
for the prevailing rate applicable to Mogadore, for both residents and non-
residents.
      (3)   As long as the village is a designated Medicare, Medicaid and/or
Workers’ Compensation provider, the village shall accept as total payment the
rates and co-payments established for all individuals covered by these programs
for the prevailing rate applicable to Mogadore, for both residents and non-
residents.
   (B)   Waiver. Upon the affirmative vote of at least five of the members
elected and appointed to Council, and upon the recommendation by the Fire Chief
that the person receiving such services is indigent or otherwise unable to pay
for such services, and there is no other source for the payment, the village
may waive the aforesaid fee or a portion thereof. The Fire Chief shall submit
to Council such recommendations on a quarterly basis. Each person billed for
emergency medical services shall be notified of the terms of this division (B).
   (C)   The fees herein shall be in addition to any other charges payable for
such services, including but not limited to, any tax levied, all or part of
which pays any portion of the cost of emergency medical services, and/or any
charges or services rendered by others.
   (D)   The Mayor and Clerk-Treasurer are hereby authorized to enter into one
or more service contracts for the necessary billing and collection services to
enforce this fee schedule subject to general bidding requirements established
by Council.
   (E)   The fees set forth herein shall be reviewed periodically on an annual
basis by the Mayor, Fire Chief, and the Safety Committee. The amount of the
fees may be amended by legislation as necessary, upon determination by these
individuals, to reflect changing costs for such services.
   (F)   The Fire Chief shall be responsible for overseeing billing and
collection fees provided for herein.
   (G)   The revenues generated by the charges for emergency medical services
herein shall be deposited into one or more funds established by Council for the
purposes of the acquisition of emergency medical service vehicle(s) and
equipment, the payment of any of the costs of providing emergency medical and
related services to the public and the costs of financing thereof, and any
costs incurred in the collection of such fees. All interest earned on the
moneys to the credit of such fund(s) shall be credited to the same fund or
otherwise in accordance with the distribution of interest legislatively adopted
by Council.
(Ord. 7, passed 3-16-05; Am. Ord. 2009-7, passed 2-4-09; Am. Ord. 2013-8,
passed 2-7-13; Am. Ord. 2019-16, passed 2-20-19; Am. Ord. 2021-25, passed 5-20-
21)
§ 35.04 EMPLOYEE HANDBOOK.
   The Fire Department employee handbook, as attached to Ord. 2022-61 as
Exhibit “A” is hereby incorporated and adopted as if laid out herein in full.
(Ord. 2019-99, passed 12-4-19; Am. Ord. 2022-61, passed 10-5-22; Am. Ord. 2022-
85, passed 12-7-22)
CHAPTER 36: CIVIL ACTIONS AGAINST THE VILLAGE
Section
   
36.01   Definitions
   
36.02   Nonliability of village; exceptions
   
36.03   Defenses and immunities
   
36.04   Limitation of actions
   
36.05   Satisfaction of judgments
   
36.06   Defending and indemnifying employees
   
36.07   Liability insurance
   
36.08   Certain actions unaffected
§ 36.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMERGENCY CALL. A call to duty including, but not limited to, communications
from citizens, police dispatches, and personal observations by peace officers
of inherently dangerous situations that demand an immediate response on the
part of a peace officer.
   EMPLOYEE. An officer, agent, employee, or servant, whether or not
compensated or full-time or part-time, who is authorized to act and is acting
within the scope of his or her employment for a political subdivision. EMPLOYEE
does not include an independent contractor and does not include any individual
engaged by a school district pursuant to R.C. § 3319.301. EMPLOYEE includes any
elected or appointed official of a political subdivision. EMPLOYEE also
includes a person who has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a criminal
offense and who has been sentenced to perform community service work in a
political subdivision whether pursuant to R.C. § 2951.02 or otherwise, and a
child who is found to be a delinquent child and who is ordered by a juvenile
court pursuant to R.C. § 2152.19 or 2152.20 to perform community service or
community work in a political subdivision.
   GOVERNMENTAL FUNCTION.
      (1)   A function of a political subdivision that is specified in division
(2) of this definition or that satisfies any of the following:
         (a)   A function that is imposed upon the state as an obligation of
sovereignty and that is performed by a political subdivision voluntarily or
pursuant to legislative requirement;
         (b)   A function that is for the common good of all citizens of the
state;
         (c)   A function that promotes or preserves the public peace, health,
safety, or welfare, that involves activities that are not engaged in or not
customarily engaged in by nongovernmental persons, and that is not specified in
this section as a proprietary function.
      (2)   A GOVERNMENTAL FUNCTION includes, but is not limited to, the
following:
         (a)   The provision or nonprovision of police, fire, emergency
medical, ambulance, and rescue services or protection;
         (b)   The power to preserve the peace; to prevent and suppress riots,
disturbances, and disorderly assemblages; to prevent, mitigate, and clean up
releases of oil and hazardous and extremely hazardous substances as defined in
R.C. § 3750.01; and to protect persons and property;
         (c)   The provision of a system of public education;
         (d)   The provision of a free public library system;
         (e)   The regulation of the use of, and the maintenance and repair of,
roads, highways, streets, avenues, alleys, sidewalks, bridges, aqueducts,
viaducts, and public grounds;
         (f)   Judicial, quasi-judicial, prosecutorial, legislative, and quasi-
legislative functions;
         (g)   The construction, reconstruction, repair, renovation,
maintenance, and operation of buildings that are used in connection with the
performance of a governmental function, including, but not limited to, office
buildings and courthouses;
         (h)   The design, construction, reconstruction, renovation, repair,
maintenance, and operation of jails, places of juvenile detention, workhouses,
or any other detention facility, as defined in R.C. § 2921.01;
         (i)   The enforcement or nonperformance of any law;
         (j)   The regulation of traffic, and the erection or nonerection of
traffic signs, signals, or control devices;
         (k)   The collection and disposal of solid wastes, as defined in R.C.
§ 3734.01 including, but not limited to, the operation of solid waste disposal
facilities as FACILITIES is defined in that section, and the collection and
management of hazardous waste generated by households. As used in this
subsection, HAZARDOUS WASTE GENERATED BY HOUSEHOLDS means solid waste
originally generated by individual households that is listed specifically as
hazardous waste in or exhibits one or more characteristics of hazardous waste
as defined by rules adopted under R.C. § 3734.12, but that is excluded from
regulation as a hazardous waste by those rules;
         (l)   The provision or nonprovision, planning or design, construction,
or reconstruction of a public improvement, including, but not limited to, a
sewer system;
         (m)   The operation of a job and family services department or agency,
including, but not limited to, the provision of assistance to aged and infirm
persons and to persons who are indigent;
         (n)   The operation of a health board, department, or agency,
including, but not limited to, any statutorily required or permissive program
for the provision of immunizations or other inoculations to all or some members
of the public; provided that a GOVERNMENTAL FUNCTION does not include the
supply, manufacture, distribution, or development of any drug or vaccine
employed in any such immunization or inoculation program by any supplier,
manufacturer, distributor, or developer of the drug or vaccine;
         (o)   The operation of mental health facilities, developmental
disabilities facilities, alcohol treatment and control centers, and children's
homes or agencies;
         (p)   The provision or nonprovision of inspection services of all
types, including, but not limited to, inspections in connection with building,
zoning, sanitation, fire, plumbing, and electrical codes, and the taking of
actions in connection with those types of codes, including, but not limited to,
the approval of plans for the construction of buildings or structures and the
issuance or revocation of building permits or stop work orders in connection
with buildings or structures;
         (q)   Urban renewal projects and the elimination of slum conditions,
including the performance of any activity that a County Land Reutilization
Corporation is authorized to perform under R.C. Chapter 1724 or R.C. Chapter
5722;
         (r)   Flood control measures;
         (s)   The design, construction, reconstruction, renovation, operation,
care, repair, and maintenance of a township cemetery;
         (t)   The issuance of revenue obligations under R.C. § 140.06;
         (u)   The design, construction, reconstruction, renovation, repair,
maintenance, and operation of any school athletic facility, school auditorium,
or gymnasium or any recreation area or facility, including but not limited to
any of the following:
            1.   A park, playground, or playfield;
            2.   An indoor recreational facility;
            3.   A zoo or zoological park;
            4.   A bath, swimming pool, pond, water park, wading pool, wave
pool, water slide or other type of aquatic facility;
            5.   A golf course;
            6.   A bicycle motocross facility or other type of recreational
area or facility in which bicycling, skating, skate boarding, or scooter riding
is engaged;
            7.   A rope course or climbing walls;
            8.   An all-purpose vehicle facility in which all-purpose vehicles,
as defined in R.C. § 4519.01, are contained, maintained, or operated for
recreational activities.
         (w)   1.   At any time before regulations prescribed pursuant to 49
U.S.C. § 20153 become effective, the designation, establishment, design,
construction, implementation, operation, repair, or maintenance of a public
road rail crossing in a zone within a municipal corporation in which, by
ordinance, the legislative authority of the municipal corporation regulates the
sounding of locomotive horns, whistles, or bells;
            2.   On and after the effective date of regulations prescribed
pursuant to 49 U.S.C. § 20153, the designation, establishment, design,
construction, implementation, operation, repair, or maintenance of a public
road rail crossing in such a zone or of a supplementary safety measure, as
defined in 49 U.S.C. § 20153, at or for a public road rail crossing, if and to
the extent that the public road rail crossing is excepted, pursuant to
subsection (c) of that section, from the requirement of the regulations
prescribed under subsection (b) of that section.
         (x)   A function that the General Assembly mandates a political
subdivision to perform.
   LAW. Any provision of the Constitution, statutes, or rules of the United
States or of this state, provisions of charters, ordinances, resolutions, and
rules of political subdivisions, and written policies  adopted by boards of
education. When used in connection with the “common law,” this definition does
not apply.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   POLITICAL SUBDIVISION or SUBDIVISION. A municipal corporation, township,
county, school district, or other body corporate and politic responsible for
governmental activities in a geographic area smaller than that of the state.
POLITICAL SUBDIVISION includes but is not limited to a county hospital
commission appointed under R.C. § 339.14, board of hospital commissioners
appointed for a municipal hospital under R.C. § 749.04, board of hospital
trustees appointed for a municipal hospital under R.C. § 749.22, regional
planning commission created pursuant to R.C. § 713.21, county planning
commission created pursuant to R.C. § 713.22, joint planning council created
pursuant to R.C. § 713.231, interstate regional planning commission created
pursuant to R.C. § 713.30, port authority created pursuant to R.C. § 4582.02 or
4582.26 or in existence on December 16, 1964, regional council established by
political subdivisions pursuant to R.C. Chapter 167, emergency planning
district and joint emergency planning district designated under R.C. § 3750.03,
joint emergency medical services district created pursuant to R.C. § 307.052, a
fire and ambulance district created pursuant to  R.C. § 505.375, joint
interstate emergency planning district established by an agreement entered into
under that section, and a county solid waste management district and joint
solid waste management district established under R.C. § 343.01 or 343.012, a
community school established under R.C. Chapter 3314, county land reutilization
corporation organized under R.C. Chapter 1724, the county or counties served by
a community-based correctional facility and program or district community-based
correction facility and program established and operated under R.C. § § 2301.51
through 2301.58, a community- based correctional facility and program or
district community-based correctional facility and program that is so
established and operated, and the facility governing board of a community-based
correctional facility and program or district community-based correctional
facility and program that is so established and operated.
   PROPRIETARY FUNCTION.
      (1)   A function of a political subdivision that is specified in division
(2) of this definition or that satisfies both of the following:
         (a)   The function is not one described in divisions (1)(a) or (1)(b)
of the definition of GOVERNMENTAL FUNCTION contained in this section, and is
not one specified in division (2) of the definition of GOVERNMENTAL FUNCTION
contained in this section;
         (b)   The function is one that promotes or preserves the public peace,
health, safety, or welfare and that involves activities that are customarily
engaged in by nongovernmental persons.
      (2)   A PROPRIETARY FUNCTION includes, but is not limited to, the
following:
         (a)   The operation of a hospital by one or more political
subdivisions;
         (b)   The design, construction, reconstruction, renovation, repair,
maintenance, and operation of a public cemetery other than a township cemetery;
         (c)   The establishment, maintenance, and operation of a utility,
including, but not limited to, a light, gas, power, or heat plant, a railroad,
a busline or other transit company, an airport, and a municipal water supply
system;
         (d)   The maintenance, destruction, operation, and upkeep of a sewer
system;
         (e)   The operation and control of a public stadium, auditorium, civic
or social center, exhibition hall, arts and crafts center, band or orchestra,
or off-street parking facility.
   PUBLIC ROADS. Means public roads, highways, streets, avenues, alleys and
bridges within a political subdivision. PUBLIC ROADS does not include berms,
shoulders, rights-of-way, or traffic control devices, unless the traffic
control devices are mandated by the Ohio Manual of Uniform Traffic Control
Devices.
   STATE. The State of Ohio, including, but not limited to, the General
Assembly, the Supreme Court, the offices of all elected state officers, and all
departments, boards, offices, commissions, agencies, colleges, and
universities, institutions, and other instrumentalities of the State of Ohio.
STATE does not include political subdivisions.
(R.C. § 2744.01)
§ 36.02 NONLIABILITY OF VILLAGE; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Classifications of functions; nonliability; jurisdiction of the
courts.
      (1)   For the purposes of this chapter, the functions of political
subdivisions are classified as governmental functions and proprietary
functions. Except as provided in division (B) of this section, a political
subdivision is not liable in damages in a civil action for injury, death, or
loss to person or property allegedly caused by any act or omission of the
political subdivision or an employee of the political subdivision in connection
with a governmental or proprietary function.
      (2)   Subject to statutory limitations upon their monetary jurisdiction,
the Courts of Common Pleas, the Municipal Courts, and the County Courts have
jurisdiction to hear and determine civil actions governed by or brought
pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   Exceptions. Subject to §
36.03 and R.C. § § 2744.03 and 2744.05, a political subdivision is liable in
damages in a civil action for injury, death, or loss to person or property
allegedly caused by an act or omission of the political subdivision or of any
of its employees in connection with a governmental or proprietary function, as
follows:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, political
subdivisions are liable for injury, death, or loss to person or property caused
by the negligent operation of any motor vehicle by their employees when the
employees are engaged within the scope of their employment and authority. The
following are full defenses to that liability:
         (a)   A member of a municipal police department or any other police
agency was operating a motor vehicle while responding to an emergency call and
the operation of the vehicle did not constitute willful or wanton misconduct;
         (b)   A member of a municipal fire department or any other
firefighting agency was operating a motor vehicle while engaged in duty at a
fire, proceeding toward a place where a fire is in progress or is believed to
be in progress, or in answering any other emergency alarm and the operation of
the vehicle did not constitute willful or wanton misconduct.
         (c)   A member of an emergency medical service owned or operated by a
political subdivision was operating a motor vehicle while responding to or
completing a call for emergency medical care or treatment, the member was
holding a valid commercial driver’s license issued pursuant to R.C. Chapter
4506 or a driver's license issued pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4507, the operation
of the vehicle did not constitute willful or wanton misconduct, and the
operation complies with the precautions of R.C. § 4511.03.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § § 3314.07 and 3746.24,
political subdivisions are liable for injury, death, or loss to person or
property caused by the negligent performance of acts by their employees with
respect to proprietary functions of the political subdivisions.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 3746.24, political
subdivisions are liable for injury, death, or loss to person or property caused
by their negligent failure to keep public roads in repair and other negligent
failure to remove obstructions from public roads, except that it is a full
defense to that liability, when a bridge within a municipality is involved,
that the municipality does not have the responsibility for maintaining or
inspecting the bridge.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 3746.24, political
subdivisions are liable for injury, death, or loss to person or property that
is caused by the negligence of their employees and that occurs within or on the
grounds of, and is due to physical defects within or on the grounds of,
buildings that are used in connection with the performance of a governmental
function, including, but not limited to, office buildings and courthouses, but
not including jails, places of juvenile detention, workhouses, or any other
detention facility, as defined in R.C. § 2921.01.
      (5)   In addition to the circumstances described in divisions (B)(1)
through (4) of this section, a political subdivision is liable for injury,
death, or loss to person or property when liability is expressly imposed upon
the political subdivision by a section of the Revised Code, including, but not
limited to, R.C. § § 2743.02 and 5591.37. Liability shall not be construed to
exist under another section of this code or the Revised Code merely because
that section imposes a responsibility or mandatory duty upon a political
subdivision, because that section provides for a criminal penalty, because of a
general authorization in that section that a political subdivision may sue and
be sued, or because that section uses the term “shall” in a provision
pertaining to a political subdivision.
   (C)   An order that denies a political subdivision or an employee of a
political subdivision the benefit of an alleged immunity from liability as
provided in this chapter or any other provision of the law is a final order.
(R.C. § 2744.02)
§ 36.03 DEFENSES AND IMMUNITIES.
   (A)   In a civil action brought against the village or an employee of the
village to recover damages for injury, death, or loss to persons or property
allegedly caused by any act or omission in connection with a governmental or
proprietary function, the following defenses or immunities may be asserted to
establish nonliability:
      (1)   The village is immune from liability if the employee involved was
engaged in the performance of a judicial, quasi-judicial, prosecutorial,
legislative, or quasi-legislative function.
      (2)   The village is immune from liability if the conduct of the employee
involved, other than negligent conduct, that gave rise to the claim of
liability was required by law or authorized by law, or if the conduct of the
employee involved that gave rise to the claim of liability was necessary or
essential to the exercise of powers of the village or employee.
      (3)   The village is immune from liability if the action or failure to
act by the employee involved that gave rise to the claim of liability was
within the discretion of the employee with respect to policy making, planning,
or enforcement powers by virtue of the duties and responsibilities of the
office or position of the employee.
      (4)   The village is immune from liability if the action or failure to
act by the political subdivision or employee involved that gave rise to the
claim of liability, resulted in injury or death to a person who had been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to a criminal offense and who, at the time of
the injury or death, was serving any portion of his or her sentence by
performing community service work for or in the political subdivision whether
pursuant to R.C. § 2951.02 or otherwise, or resulted in injury or death to a
child who was found to be a delinquent child and who, at the time of the injury
or death, was performing community service or community work for or in a
political subdivision in accordance with the order of a juvenile court entered
pursuant to R.C. § 2152.19 or 2152.20, and if, at the time of the person's or
child's injury or death, the person or child was covered for purposes of R.C.
Chapter 4123 in connection with the community service or community work for or
in the political subdivision.
      (5)   The village is immune from liability if the injury, death, or loss
to persons or property resulted from the exercise of judgment or discretion in
determining whether to acquire, or how to use, equipment, supplies, materials,
personnel, facilities, and other resources, unless the judgment or discretion
was exercised with malicious purpose, in bad faith, or in a wanton or reckless
manner.
      (6)   In addition to any immunity or defense referred to in division (A)
(7) of this section and in circumstances not covered by that division or R.C. §
§ 3314.07 and 3746.24, the employee is immune from liability unless one of the
following applies:
         (a)   His or her acts or omissions were manifestly outside the scope
of his or her employment or official responsibilities;
         (b)   His or her acts or omissions were with malicious purpose, in bad
faith, or in a wanton or reckless manner;
         (c)   Civil liability is expressly imposed upon the employee by a
section of the Revised Code. Civil liability shall not be construed to exist
under another section of the Ohio Revised Code merely because that section
imposes a responsibility or mandatory duty upon an employee, because that
section provides for a criminal penalty, because of a general authorization in
that section that an employee may sue and be sued, or because the section uses
the term “shall” in a provision pertaining to an employee.
      (7)   The village, and an employee who is the chief legal officer of the
village, an assistant of any such person, or a judge of a court of this state,
is entitled to any defense or immunity available at common law or established
by the Revised Code.
   (B)   Any immunity or defense conferred upon, or referred to in connection
with, an employee by division (A)(6) or (7) of this section does not affect or
limit any liability of the village for an act or omission of the employee as
provided in §
36.02 above.
(R.C. § 2744.03)
§ 36.04 LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.
   An action against the village to recover damages for injury, death, or loss
to person or property allegedly caused by any act or omission in connection
with a governmental or proprietary function, whether brought as an original
action, cross-claim, counterclaim, third-party claim, or claim for subrogation,
shall be brought within two years after the cause of action accrues, or within
any applicable shorter period of time for bringing the action provided by the
Revised Code. The period of limitation contained in this division shall be
tolled pursuant to R.C. § 2305.16. This section applies to actions brought
against the village by all persons, governmental entities, and the state.
(R.C. § 2744.04(A))
§ 36.05 SATISFACTION OF JUDGMENTS.
   Real or personal property, and moneys, accounts, deposits, or investments of
the village are not subject to execution, judicial sale, garnishment, or
attachment to satisfy a judgment rendered against the village in a civil action
to recover damages for injury, death, or loss to person or property caused by
an act or omission of the village or any of its employees in connection with a
governmental or proprietary function. Those judgments shall be paid from funds
of the village that have been appropriated for that purpose, but, if sufficient
funds are not currently appropriated for the payment of judgments, the fiscal
officer of the village shall certify the amount of any unpaid judgments to the
taxing authority of the village for inclusion in the next succeeding budget and
annual appropriation measure and payment in the next succeeding fiscal year as
provided by R.C. § 5705.08, unless any judgment of that nature is to be paid
from the proceeds of bonds issued pursuant to R.C. § 133.14 or pursuant to
annual installments authorized by R.C. § 2744.06(B) or (C).
(R.C. § 2744.06(A))
Statutory reference:
   Damage awards, see R.C. § 2744.05
§ 36.06 DEFENDING AND INDEMNIFYING EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(2) of this section,
a political subdivision shall provide for the defense of an employee, in any
state or federal court, in any civil action or proceeding which contains an
allegation for damages for injury, death, or loss to person or property caused
by an act or omission of the employee in connection with a governmental or
proprietary function. Amounts expended by a political subdivision in the
defense of its employees shall be from funds appropriated for this purpose or
from proceeds of insurance.
      (2)   A political subdivision does not have the duty to provide for the
defense of an employee under division (A)(1) of this section if any of the
following apply:
         (a)   The act or omission occurred while the employee was not acting
in good faith.
         (b)   The act or omission occurred while the employee was acting
manifestly outside the scope of the employee’s employment or official
responsibilities.
         (c)   The civil action or proceeding is commenced by or on behalf of a
political subdivision.
         (d)   The employee is an employee of a regional council of governments
established under R.C. Chapter 167 and both of the following apply:
            1.   The employee is not also an employee of a political
subdivision that is a member of the council.
            2.   The act or omission, if proven, would constitute a violation
of R.C. Chapter 102 or R.C. Chapter 2921.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2) of this section,
a political subdivision shall indemnify and hold harmless an employee in the
amount of any judgment, other than a judgment for punitive or exemplary
damages, that is obtained against the employee in a state or federal court or
as a result of a law of a foreign jurisdiction and that is for damages for
injury, death, or loss to person or property caused by an act or omission in
connection with a governmental or proprietary function.
      (2)   A political subdivision is not required to indemnify and hold
harmless an employee under division (B)(1) of this section if any of the
following apply:
         (a)   At the time of the act or omission, the employee was not acting
in good faith.
         (b)   At the time of the act or omission, the employee was not acting
within the scope of the employee’s employment or official responsibilities.
         (c)   The employee is an employee of a regional council of governments
established under R.C. Chapter 167 and both of the following apply:
            1.   The employee is not also an employee of a political
subdivision that is a member of the council.
            2.   The act or omission constitutes a violation of R.C. Chapter
102 or R.C. Chapter 2921.
   (C)   (1)   A political subdivision may enter into a consent judgment or
settlement and may secure releases from liability for itself or an employee,
with respect to any claim for injury, death, or loss to person or property
caused by an act or omission in connection with a governmental or proprietary
function.
      (2)   No action or appeal of any kind shall be brought by any person,
including any employee or a taxpayer, with respect to the decision of a
political subdivision pursuant to division (C)(1) of this section whether to
enter into a consent judgment or settlement or to secure releases, or
concerning the amount and circumstances of a consent judgment or settlement.
Amounts expended for any settlement shall be from funds appropriated for this
purpose.
   (D)   (1)   If a political subdivision refuses to provide an employee with a
defense in a civil action or proceeding as described in division (A) of this
section, upon the motion of the political subdivision, the court shall conduct
a hearing regarding the political subdivision’s duty to defend the employee in
that civil action. The political subdivision shall file the motion within 30
days of the close of discovery in the action. After the motion is filed, the
employee shall have not less than 30 days to respond to the motion.
      (2)   At the request of the political subdivision or the employee, the
court shall order the motion to be heard at an oral hearing. At the hearing on
the motion, the court shall consider all evidence and arguments submitted by
the parties. The court shall determine whether the political subdivision has
the duty to defend the employee under division (A) of this section. The
pleadings shall not be determinative of whether the employee acted in good
faith or was manifestly outside the scope of employment or official
responsibilities.
      (3)   If the court determines that the political subdivision has the duty
to defend the employee under division (A) of this section, the court shall
order the political subdivision to defend the employee in the action.
(R.C. § 2744.07)
§ 36.07 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   (A)   (1)   The village may use public funds to secure insurance with
respect to its and its employees' potential liability in damages in civil
actions for injury, death, or loss to persons or property allegedly caused by
an act or omission of the village or any of its employees in connection with a
governmental or proprietary function. The insurance may be at the limits, for
the circumstances, and subject to the terms and conditions, that are determined
by the political subdivision in its discretion. The insurance may be for the
period of time that is set forth in specifications for competitive bids or,
when competitive bidding is not required, for the period of time that is
mutually agreed upon by the political subdivision and insurance company. The
period of time does not have to be, but can be, limited to the fiscal cycle
under which the political subdivision is funded and operated.
      (2)   (a)   Regardless of whether the village procures a policy of
liability insurance pursuant to division (A)(1) of this section or otherwise,
the village may establish and maintain a self-insurance program relative to its
and its employees' potential liability in damages in civil actions for injury,
death, or loss to persons or property allegedly caused by an act or omission of
the village or any of its employees in connection with a governmental or
proprietary function. The village may reserve such funds as it deems
appropriate in a special fund that may be established pursuant to an ordinance
or resolution of the village and not subject to R.C. § 5705.12. The village may
allocate the costs of insurance of a self-insurance program, or both, among the
funds or accounts in the village's treasury on the basis of relative exposure
and loss experience. The village may require any deductibles under an insurance
or self-insurance program, or both, to be paid from funds or accounts in the
village’s treasury from which a loss was directly attributable. If it so
chooses, the village may contract with any person, other political subdivision,
or regional council of governments for purposes of the administration of such
program.
         (b)   Political subdivisions that have established self-insurance
programs relative to their and their employees' potential liability as
described in division (A)(2)(a) of this section may mutually agree that their
self-insurance programs will be jointly administered in a specific manner.
   (B)   The purchase of liability insurance, or the establishment and
maintenance of a self-insurance program, by the village does not constitute a
waiver of any immunity or defense of the village or its employees, except that
the village may specifically waive any immunity or defense to which it or its
employees may be entitled if a provision to that effect is specifically
included in the policy of insurance or in a written plan of operation of the
self-insurance program, or, if any, the legislative enactment of the village
authorizing the purchase of the insurance or the establishment and maintenance
of the self- insurance program. Such a specific waiver shall be only to the
extent of the insurance or self-insurance program coverage.
   (C)   The authorizations for political subdivisions to secure insurance and
to establish and maintain self-insurance programs in this section are in
addition to any other authority to secure insurance or to establish and
maintain self-insurance programs that is granted pursuant to the Revised Code
or the Ohio Constitution, and they are not in derogation of any other
authorization.
(R.C. § 2744.08)
Statutory reference:
   Joint municipal self-insurance pools, see R.C. § 2744.081
§ 36.08 CERTAIN ACTIONS UNAFFECTED.
   This chapter does not apply to, and shall not be construed to apply to, the
following:
   (A)   Civil actions that seek to recover damages from the village or any of
its employees for contractual liability;
   (B)   Civil actions by an employee, or the collective bargaining
representative of an employee, against his or her village relative to any
matter that arises out of the employment relationship between the employee and
the village;
   (C)   Civil actions by an employee of the village against the village
relative to wages, hours, conditions, or other terms of his or her employment;
   (D)   Civil actions by sureties, and the rights of sureties, under fidelity
or surety bonds;
   (E)   Civil claims based upon alleged violations of the Constitution or
statutes of the United States, except that the provisions of §
36.07 shall apply to such claims or related civil actions.
(R.C. § 2744.09)
CHAPTER 37: MUNICIPAL INCOME TAX
Section
   
37.01   Authority to levy tax; purposes of tax; rate
   
37.011   Authority to levy tax
   
37.012   Purposes of tax; rate
   
37.013   Allocation of funds
   
37.014   Statement of procedural history; state mandated changes to municipal
income tax
   
37.02   Effective date
   
37.03   Definitions
   
37.04   Income subject to tax for individuals
   
37.041   Determining municipal taxable income for individuals
   
37.042   Domicile
   
37.043   Exemption for member or employee of General Assembly and certain
judges
   
37.05   Collection at source
   
37.051   Collection at source; withholding from qualifying wages
   
37.052   Collection at source; occasional entrant
   
37.053   Collection at source; casino and VLT
   
37.06   Income subject to net profit tax
   
37.061   Determining municipal taxable income for taxpayers who are not
individuals
   
37.062   Net profit; income subject to net profit tax; alternative
apportionment
   
37.063   Consolidated federal income tax return
   
37.064   Tax credit for businesses that foster new jobs in Ohio
   
37.065   Tax credits to foster job retention
   
37.066   Election to be subject to R.C. §§ 718.80 to 718.95
   
37.07   Declaration of estimated tax
   
37.08   Credit for tax paid
   
37.081   Credit for tax paid to other municipalities or joint economic
development districts or zones
   
37.082   Refundable credit for qualifying loss
   
37.083   Credit for person working in joint economic development district or
zone
   
37.084   Credit for tax beyond statute for obtaining refund
   
37.085   Tax credit for certain full-time students in post-secondary education
programs
   
37.09   Annual return
   
37.091   Return and payment of tax
   
37.092   Return and payment of tax; individuals serving in combat zone
   
37.093   Use of Ohio Business Gateway; types of filings authorized
   
37.094   Extension of time to file
   
37.095   Amended returns
   
37.096   Refunds
   
37.10   Penalty, interest, fees, and charges
   
37.11   Audit
   
37.12   Rounding
   
37.13   Authority and powers of the Tax Administrator
   
37.131   Authority of Tax Administrator; administrative powers of the Tax
Administrator
   
37.132   Authority of Tax Administrator; compromise of claim and payment over
time
   
37.133   Authority of Tax Administrator; right to examine
   
37.134   Authority of Tax Administrator; requiring identifying information
   
37.14   Confidentiality
   
37.15   Fraud
   
37.16   Opinion of the Tax Administrator
   
37.17   Assessment; appeal based on presumption of delivery
   
37.18   Local Board of Tax Review; appeal to Local Board of Tax Review
   
37.19   Actions to recover; statute of limitations
   
37.20   Adoption of rules
   
37.21   Adoption of R.I.T.A. Rules and Regulations
   
37.97   Collection after termination of chapter
   
37.98   Savings clause
   
37.99   Violations; penalty
§ 37.01 AUTHORITY TO LEVY TAX; PURPOSES OF TAX; RATE
§ 37.011 AUTHORITY TO LEVY TAX.
   (A)   The tax on income and the withholding tax established by this Chapter
37 are authorized by Article XVIII, Section 3 of the Ohio Constitution. The tax
on income and the withholding tax established by this chapter are deemed to be
levied in accordance with, and to be consistent with, the provisions and
limitations of R.C. Chapter 718. This chapter is deemed to incorporate the
provisions of R.C. Chapter 718.
   (B)   The tax is an annual tax levied on the income of every person residing
in or earning or receiving income in the municipal corporation, and shall be
measured by municipal taxable income. The municipality shall tax income at a
uniform rate. The tax is levied on municipal taxable income, as defined herein.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 1-17-18)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to tax income and withhold tax, see R.C. § 718.04
§ 37.012 PURPOSES OF TAX; RATE.
   (A)   To provide funds for the purposes of general municipal operations,
maintenance, new equipment, extension and enlargement of municipal services and
facilities and capital improvements of this municipality.
   (B)   There shall be, and is hereby levied an annual tax for the purposes
specified above on and after July 1, 2019, at the rate of 2.5% per annum and
continue until such time as the electors of the village vote to amend said
rate.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 1-17-18; Am. Res. 2019-5, passed 1-2-19; Am. Ord. 2019-43,
passed 6-5-19)
§ 37.013 ALLOCATION OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Effective July 1, 2019, 2% of the funds derived from the income tax
collected under the provisions of this section, shall be deposited in the
General Fund and said funds collected for duration of this section, shall be
disbursed in the following order, to-wit:
      (1)   Such part thereof as shall be necessary to defray all costs of
collecting the taxes and the cost of administering and enforcing the provisions
thereof. All remaining net available income tax receipts received annually
shall be used to defray operation expenses of the municipality, capital
development and construction of storm sewers and street improvements, for
public buildings, for equipment necessary for the police, fire, street, traffic
and safety departments, and for parks, playgrounds and other recreational
activities, based on priorities as determined by Council.
   (B)   Funds derived from the remaining ½% of the 2.5% income tax collected
shall be used solely for infrastructure improvement purposes of the
municipality and accordingly, such funds collected under the provisions of this
section shall be deposited in to the Water/Sewer Main Project Fund and shall be
set aside for such infrastructure improvement purposes of the municipality.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 1-17-18; Am. Res. 2019-5, passed 1-2-19; Am. Ord. 2019-43,
passed 6-5-19)
§ 37.014 STATEMENT OF PROCEDURAL HISTORY; STATE MANDATED CHANGES TO MUNICIPAL
INCOME TAX.
   (A)   Significant and wide-ranging amendments to R.C. Chapter 718 were
enacted by Am Sub H.B. 5, passed by the 130th General Assembly, and signed by
Governor Kasich on December 19, 2014, and H.B. 5 required municipal
corporations to conform to and adopt the provisions of R.C. Chapter 718 in
order to have the authority to impose, enforce, administer and collect a
municipal income tax.
   (B)   As mandated by H.B. 5, municipal income tax Ordinance 2015-58,
effective January 1, 2016, comprehensively amends Chapter 37 in accordance with
the provisions of R.C. Chapter 718 to allow the municipality to continue the
income tax and withholding tax administration and collection efforts on behalf
of the municipality.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 1-17-18)
§ 37.02 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   Ordinance 2015-58, effective January 1, 2016, and corresponding
changes to R.C. Chapter 718, apply to, municipal taxable years beginning on or
after January 1, 2016. All provisions of this chapter apply to taxable years
beginning 2016 and succeeding taxable years.
   (B)   Ordinance 2015-58 does not repeal the existing sections of Chapter 37
for any taxable year prior to 2016, but rather amends Chapter 37 effective
January 1, 2016. For municipal taxable years beginning before January 1, 2016,
the municipality shall continue to administer, audit, and enforce the income
tax of the municipality under R.C. Chapter 718 and ordinance and resolutions of
the municipality as that chapter and those ordinance and resolutions existed
before January 1, 2016.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 1-17-18)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see R.C. § 718.04
§ 37.03 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Any term used in this chapter that is not otherwise defined in this
chapter has the same meaning as when used in a comparable context in laws of
the United States relating to federal income taxation or in R.C. Title LVII,
unless a different meaning is clearly required. If a term used in this chapter
that is not otherwise defined in this chapter is used in a comparable context
in both the laws of the United States relating to federal income tax and in
R.C. Title LVII and the use is not consistent, then the use of the term in the
laws of the United States relating to federal income tax shall control over the
use of the term in R.C. Title LVII.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, the singular shall include the plural,
and the masculine shall include the feminine and the gender-neutral.
   (C)   As used in this chapter:
      (1)   ADJUSTED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME, for a person required to file as a
C corporation, or for a person that has elected to be taxed as a C corporation
under division (C)(26)(d) of this division, means a C corporation's federal
taxable income before net operating losses and special deductions as determined
under the Internal Revenue Code, adjusted as follows:
         (a)   Deduct intangible income to the extent included in federal
taxable income. The deduction shall be allowed regardless of whether the
intangible income relates to assets used in a trade or business or assets held
for the production of income.
         (b)   Add an amount equal to 5% of intangible income deducted under
division (C)(1)(a) of this section, but excluding that portion of intangible
income directly related to the sale, exchange, or other disposition of property
described in section 1221 of the Internal Revenue Code.
         (c)   Add any losses allowed as a deduction in the computation of
federal taxable income if the losses directly relate to the sale, exchange, or
other disposition of an asset described in section 1221 or 1231 of the
Internal. Revenue Code.
         (d)   1.   Except as provided in division (C)(1)(d)2. of this section,
deduct income and gain included in federal taxable income to the extent the
income and gain directly relate to the sale, exchange, or other disposition of
an asset described in section 1221 or 1231 of the Internal Revenue Code;
            2.   Division (C)(1)(d)1. of this section does not apply to the
extent the income or gain is income or gain described in section 1245 or 1250
of the Internal Revenue Code.
         (e)   Add taxes on or measured by net income allowed as a deduction in
the computation of federal taxable income.
         (f)   In the case of a real estate investment trust or regulated
investment company, add all amounts.
         (g)   Deduct, to the extent not otherwise deducted or excluded in
computing federal taxable income.
         (h)   1.   [Removed]
            2.   [Removed]
            3.   a.   [Removed]
               b.   [Removed]
            4.   [Removed]
            5.   Deduct exempt income to the extent not otherwise deducted or
excluded in computing adjusted federal taxable income.
         (i)   Deduct any net profit of a pass-through entity owned directly or
indirectly by the taxpayer and included in the taxpayer's federal taxable
income unless an affiliated group of corporations includes that net profit in
the group's federal taxable income in accordance with §
37.063(E)(3)(b).
         (j)   Add any loss incurred by a pass-through entity owned directly or
indirectly by the taxpayer and included in the taxpayer's federal taxable
income unless an affiliated group of corporations includes that loss in the
group's federal taxable income in accordance with §
37.063(E)(3)(b).
            If the taxpayer is not a C corporation, is not a disregarded entity
that has made the election described in division (C)(50)(b) of this section, is
not a publicly traded partnership that has made the election described in
division (C)(26)(d) of this section, and is not an individual, the taxpayer
shall compute adjusted federal taxable income under this section as if the
taxpayer were a C corporation, except guaranteed payments and other similar
amounts paid or accrued to a partner, former partner, shareholder, former
shareholder, member, or former member shall not be allowed as a deductible
expense unless such payments are in consideration for the use of capital and
treated as payment of interest under section 469 of the Internal Revenue Code
or United States Treasury regulations. Amounts paid or accrued to a qualified
self-employed retirement plan with respect to a partner, former partner,
shareholder, former shareholder, member, or former member of the taxpayer,
amounts paid or accrued to or for health insurance for a partner, former
partner, shareholder, former shareholder, member, or former member, and amounts
paid or accrued to or for life insurance for a partner, former partner,
shareholder, former shareholder, member, or former member shall not be allowed
as a deduction.
         Nothing in division (C)(1) of this section shall be construed as
allowing the taxpayer to add or deduct any amount more than once or shall be
construed as allowing any taxpayer to deduct any amount paid to or accrued for
purposes of federal self-employment tax.
      (2)   (a)   ASSESSMENT. Means any of the following:
            1.   A written finding by the Tax Administrator that a person has
underpaid municipal income tax, or owes penalty and interest, or any
combination of tax, penalty, or interest, to the municipal corporation;
            2.   A full or partial denial of a refund request issued under §
37.096(B)(2);
            3.   A Tax Administrator's denial of a taxpayer's request for use
of an alternative apportionment method, issued under §
37.062(B)(2); or
            4.   A Tax Administrator's requirement for a taxpayer to use an
alternative apportionment method, issued under §
37.062(B)(3).
            5.   For purposes of division (C)(2)(a)1., 2., 3., and 4. of this
section, an assessment shall commence the person's time limitation for making
an appeal to the Local Board of Tax Review pursuant to § 37.18, and shall have
"ASSESSMENT" written in all capital letters at the top of such finding.
         (b)   ASSESSMENT does not include notice(s) denying a request for
refund issued under §
37.096(B)(3), a billing statement notifying a taxpayer of current or past-due
balances owed to the municipal corporation, a Tax Administrator's request for
additional information, a notification to the taxpayer of mathematical errors,
or a Tax Administrator's other written correspondence to a person or taxpayer
that does not meet the criteria prescribed by division (C)(2)(a) of this
section.
      (3)   AUDIT. The examination of a person or the inspection of the books,
records, memoranda, or accounts of a person, ordered to appear before the Tax
Administrator, for the purpose of determining liability for a municipal income
tax.
      (4)   BOARD OF REVIEW. Has the same meaning as LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW.
      (5)   CALENDAR QUARTER. The three-month period ending on the last day of
March, June, September, or December.
      (6)   CASINO OPERATOR and CASINO FACILITY. Have the same meanings as in
R.C. § 3772.01.
      (7)   CERTIFIED MAIL, EXPRESS MAIL, UNITED STATES MAIL, POSTAL SERVICE,
and similar terms include any delivery service authorized pursuant to R.C. §
5703.056.
      (8)   COMPENSATION. Any form of remuneration paid to an employee for
personal services.
      (9)   DISREGARDED ENTITY. A single member limited liability company, a
qualifying subchapter S subsidiary, or another entity if the company,
subsidiary, or entity is a disregarded entity for federal income tax purposes.
      (10)   DOMICILE. The true, fixed and permanent home of the taxpayer to
which, whenever absent, the taxpayer intends to return.
      (11)   EMPLOYEE. An individual who is an employee for federal income tax
purposes, and who works for income, qualifying wages, salary, commission or
other type of compensation in the service of and under the control of an
employer. The relationship of employer and employee exists when the person for
whom services are performed has the right to control and direct the individual
who performs the services, not only as to the result to be accomplished, but
also as to details and means by which that result is accomplished. Any person
from whom an employer is required to withhold for federal income tax purposes
shall prima facie be deemed an employee.
      (12)   EMPLOYER. An individual, association, corporation or other entity
that is an employer for federal income tax purposes, and who or that employs
one or more persons on an income, salary, qualifying wage, commission or other
compensation basis, whether or not the entity is private or public. No rights,
duties or obligations are imposed with respect to any such body not otherwise
authorized by law. A person who employs domestic help for such person's private
residence shall not be considered an employer of the domestic for municipal
income tax withholding purposes, and shall not be required to withhold and/or
remit municipal income tax on behalf of the domestic help.
      (13)   EXEMPT INCOME. All of the following:
         (a)   The military pay or allowances of members of the armed forces of
the United States or members of their reserve components, including the
national guard of any state;
         (b)   1.   Except as provided in division (C)(13)(b)2. of this
section, intangible income;
            2.   A municipal corporation that taxed any type of intangible
income on March 29, 1988, pursuant to Section 3 of S.B. 238 of the 116th
General Assembly, may continue to tax that type of income if a majority of the
electors of the municipal corporation voting on the question of whether to
permit the taxation of that type of intangible income after 1988 voted in favor
thereof at an election held on November 8, 1988.
         (c)   Social security benefits, railroad retirement benefits,
unemployment compensation, pensions, retirement benefit payments, payments from
annuities, and similar payments made to an employee or to the beneficiary of an
employee under a retirement program or plan, disability payments received from
private industry or local, state, or federal governments or from charitable,
religious or educational organizations, and the proceeds of sickness, accident,
or liability insurance policies. As used in division (C)(13)(c) of this
section, "unemployment compensation" does not include supplemental unemployment
compensation described in section 3402(o)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code.
         (d)   The income of religious, fraternal, charitable, scientific,
literary, or educational institutions to the extent such income is derived from
tax-exempt real estate, tax-exempt tangible or intangible property, or tax-
exempt activities.
         (e)   Compensation paid under R.C. § 3501.28 or 3501.36 to a person
serving as a precinct election official to the extent that such compensation
does not exceed $1,000 for the taxable year. Such compensation in excess of
$1,000 for the taxable year may be subject to taxation by a municipal
corporation. A municipal corporation shall not require the payer of such
compensation to withhold any tax from that compensation.
         (f)   Dues, contributions, and similar payments received by
charitable, religious, educational, or literary organizations or labor unions,
lodges, and similar organizations.
         (g)   Alimony and child support received.
         (h)   Awards for personal injuries or for damages to property from
insurance proceeds or otherwise, excluding compensation paid for lost salaries
or wages or awards for punitive damages.
         (i)   Income of a public utility when that public utility is subject
to the tax levied under R.C. § 5727.24 or 5727.30. Division (C)(13)(a) of this
section does not apply for purposes of R.C. Chapter 5745.
         (j)   Gains from involuntary conversions, interest on federal
obligations, items of income subject to a tax levied by the state and that a
municipal corporation is specifically prohibited by law from taxing, and income
of a decedent's estate during the period of administration except such income
from the operation of a trade or business. Gains from cancellation of
indebtedness (individual taxpayers only) to the extent exempt from federal
income tax.
         (k)   Compensation or allowances excluded from federal gross income
under section 107 of the Internal Revenue Code; the exclusions apply only to an
individual taxpayer that is duly ordained, commissioned, or licensed by a
religious body constituting a church or church denomination, and having the
authority to perform all sacraments of the church or religious body.
         (l)   Employee compensation that is not qualifying wages as defined in
division (C)(37) of this section.
         (m)   Compensation paid to a person employed within the boundaries of
a United States Air Force base under the jurisdiction of the United States Air
Force that is used for the housing of members of the United States Air Force
and is a center for Air Force operations, unless the person is subject to
taxation because of residence or domicile. If the compensation is subject to
taxation because of residence or domicile, tax on such income shall be payable
only to the municipal corporation of residence or domicile.
         (n)   An S corporation shareholder's distributive share of net profits
of the S corporation, other than any part of the distributive share of net
profits that represents wages as defined in section 3121(a) of the Internal
Revenue Code or net earnings from self-employment as defined in section 1402(a)
of the Internal Revenue Code.
         (o)   All of the municipal taxable income earned by individuals under
18 years of age.
         (p)   1.   Except as provided in divisions (C)(13)(p)2., 3., and 4. of
this section, qualifying wages described in §
37.052(B)(1) or (E) to the extent the qualifying wages are not subject to
withholding for the municipality under either of those divisions.
            2.   The exemption provided in division (C)(13)(p)1. of this
section does not apply with respect to the municipal corporation in which the
employee resided at the time the employee earned the qualifying wages.
            3.   The exemption provided in division (C)(13)(p)1. of this
section does not apply to qualifying wages that an employer elects to withhold
under §
37.052(D)(2).
            4.   The exemption provided in division (C)(13)(p)1. of this
section does not apply to qualifying wages if both of the following conditions
apply:
               a.   For qualifying wages described in §
37.052(B)(1), the employee's employer withholds and remits tax on the
qualifying wages to the municipal corporation in which the employee's principal
place of work is situated, or, for qualifying wages described in §
37.052(E), the employee's employer withholds and remits tax on the qualifying
wages to the municipal corporation in which the employer's fixed location is
located;
               b.   The employee receives a refund of the tax described in
division (C)(13)(p)4.a. of this section on the basis of the employee not
performing services in that municipal corporation.
         (q)   1.   Except as provided in division (C)(13)(q)2. or 3. of this
section, compensation that is not qualifying wages paid to a nonresident
individual for personal services performed in the municipality on not more than
20 days in a taxable year.
            2.   The exemption provided in division (C)(13)(q)1. of this
section does not apply under either of the following circumstances:
               a.   The individual's base of operation is located in the
municipality.
               b.   The individual is a professional athlete, professional
entertainer, or public figure, and the compensation is paid for the performance
of services in the individual's capacity as a professional athlete,
professional entertainer, or public figure. For purposes of division (C)(13)
(q)2.b. of this section, "professional athlete," "professional entertainer,"
and "public figure" have the same meanings as in §
37.052.
            3.   Compensation to which division (C)(13)(q) of this section
applies shall be treated as earned or received at the individual's base of
operation. If the individual does not have a base of operation, the
compensation shall be treated as earned or received where the individual is
domiciled.
            4.   For purposes of division (C)(13)(q) of this section, "base of
operation" means the location where an individual owns or rents an office,
storefront, or similar facility to which the individual regularly reports and
at which the individual regularly performs personal services for compensation.
         (r)   Compensation paid to a person for personal services performed
for a political subdivision on property owned by the political subdivision,
regardless of whether the compensation is received by an employee of the
subdivision or another person performing services for the subdivision under a
contract with the subdivision, if the property on which services are performed
is annexed to a municipal corporation pursuant to R.C. § 709.023 on or after
March 27, 2013, unless the person is subject to such taxation because of
residence. If the compensation is subject to taxation because of residence,
municipal income tax shall be payable only to the municipal corporation of
residence.
         (s)   Income the taxation of which is prohibited by the constitution
or laws of the United States.
         Any item of income that is exempt income of a pass-through entity
under division (C)(13) of this section is exempt income of each owner of the
pass-through entity to the extent of that owner's distributive or proportionate
share of that item of the entity's income.
      (14)   FORM 2106. Tnternal Revenue Service form 2106 filed by a taxpayer
pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      (15)   GENERIC FORM. An electronic or paper form that is not prescribed
by a particular municipal corporation and that is designed for reporting taxes
withheld by an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer, estimated
municipal income taxes, or annual municipal income tax liability, including a
request for refund.
      (16)   GROSS RECEIPTS. The total revenue derived from sales, work done,
or service rendered.
      (17)   INCOME.
         (a)   1.   For residents, all income, salaries, qualifying wages,
commissions, and other compensation from whatever source earned or received by
the resident, including the resident's distributive share of the net profit of
pass-through entities owned directly or indirectly by the resident and any net
profit of the resident, except as provided in division (C)(26)(d) of this
section.
            2.   For the purposes of division (C)(17)(a)1. of this section:
               a.   Any net operating loss of the resident incurred in the
taxable year and the resident's distributive share of any net operating loss
generated in the same taxable year and attributable to the resident's ownership
interest in a pass-through entity shall be allowed as a deduction, for that
taxable year and the following five taxable years, against any other net profit
of the resident or the resident's distributive share of any net profit
attributable to the resident's ownership interest in a pass-through entity
until fully utilized, subject to division (C)(17)(a)4. of this section;
               b.   The resident's distributive share of the net profit of each
pass-through entity owned directly or indirectly by the resident shall be
calculated without regard to any net operating loss that is carried forward by
that entity from a prior taxable year and applied to reduce the entity's net
profit for the current taxable year.
            3.   Division (C)(17)(a)2. of this section does not apply with
respect to any net profit or net operating loss attributable to an ownership
interest in an S corporation unless shareholders' distributive shares of net
profits from S corporations are subject to tax in the municipal corporation as
provided in division (C)(13)(n) of this section.
            4.   Any amount of a net operating loss used to reduce a taxpayer's
net profit for a taxable year shall reduce the amount of net operating loss
that may be carried forward to any subsequent year for use by that taxpayer. In
no event shall the cumulative deductions for all taxable years with respect to
a taxpayer's net operating loss exceed the original amount of that net
operating loss available to that taxpayer.
         (b)   In the case of nonresidents, all income, salaries, qualifying
wages, commissions, and other compensation from whatever source earned or
received by the nonresident for work done, services performed or rendered, or
activities conducted in the municipality, including any net profit of the
nonresident, but excluding the nonresident's distributive share of the net
profit or loss of only pass-through entities owned directly or indirectly by
the nonresident.
         (c)   For taxpayers that are not individuals, net profit of the
taxpayer.
         (d)   Lottery, sweepstakes, gambling and sports winnings, winnings
from games of chance, and prizes and awards. If the taxpayer is a professional
gambler for federal income tax purposes, the taxpayer may deduct related
wagering losses and expenses to the extent authorized under the Internal
Revenue Code and claimed against such winnings. Credit for tax withheld or paid
to another municipal corporation on such winnings paid to the municipal
corporation where winnings occur is limited to the credit as specified in §
37.081.
         (e)   [INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]
      (18)   INTANGIBLE INCOME. Income of any of the following types: income
yield, interest, capital gains, dividends, or other income arising from the
ownership, sale, exchange, or other disposition of intangible property
including, but not limited to, investments, deposits, money, or credits as
those terms are defined in R.C. Chapter 5701, and patents, copyrights,
trademarks, trade names, investments in real estate investment trusts,
investments in regulated investment companies, and appreciation on deferred
compensation. INTANGIBLE INCOME does not include prizes, awards, or other
income associated with any lottery winnings, gambling winnings, or other
similar games of chance.
      (19)   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. The "Internal Revenue Code of 1986," 100
Sta. 2085, 26 U.S.C.A. 1, as amended.
      (20)   LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY. A limited liability company formed
under R.C. Chapter 1705 or under the laws of another state.
      (21)   LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW and BOARD OF TAX REVIEW. The entity
created under §
37.18.
      (22)   MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. In general terms, a status conferred upon a
local government unit, by state law giving the unit certain autonomous
operating authority such as the power of taxation, power of eminent domain,
police power and regulatory power, and includes a joint economic development
district or joint economic development zone that levies an income tax under
R.C. § 715.691, 715.70, 715.71, or 715.74.
      (23)   (a)   MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME.
               1.   For a person other than an individual, income apportioned
or sitused to the municipality under §
37.062, as applicable, reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward
available to the person for the municipality.
               2.   a.   For an individual who is a resident of a municipality
other than a qualified municipal corporation, income reduced by exempt income
to the extent otherwise included in income, then reduced as provided in
division (C)(23)(b) of this section, and further reduced by any pre-2017 net
operating loss carryforward available to the individual for the municipality.
                  b.   For an individual who is a resident of a qualified
municipal corporation, Ohio adjusted gross income reduced by income exempted,
and increased by deductions excluded, by the qualified municipal corporation
from the qualified municipal corporation's tax on or before December 31, 2013.
If a qualified municipal corporation, on or before December 31, 2013, exempts
income earned by individuals who are not residents of the qualified municipal
corporation and net profit of persons that are not wholly located within the
qualified municipal corporation, such individual or person shall have no
municipal taxable income for the purposes of the tax levied by the qualified
municipal corporation and may be exempted by the qualified municipal
corporation from the requirements of R.C. § 718.03.
               3.   For an individual who is a nonresident of the municipality,
income reduced by exempt income to the extent otherwise included in income and
then, as applicable, apportioned or sitused to the municipality under §
37.062, then reduced as provided in division (C)(23)(b) of this section, and
further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward available to
the individual for the municipality.
         (b)   In computing the municipal taxable income of a taxpayer who is
an individual, the taxpayer may subtract, as provided in division (C)(23)
(a)2.a. or 3. of this section, the amount of the individual's employee business
expenses reported on the individual's form 2106 and that are specifically
reportable on form 2106 and that the individual deducted for federal income tax
purposes for the taxable year, subject to the limitation imposed by section 67
of the Internal Revenue Code. For a resident taxpayer of this municipality, the
taxpayer may deduct all such expenses allowed for federal income tax purposes
but only to the extent the expenses do not related to exempt income. For a
nonresident of this municipality, taxpayer may deduct such expenses only to the
extent the expenses are related to the taxpayer's performance of personal
services in this municipality and are not related to exempt income. Expenses
shown on form 2106 are subject to review by this municipality.
      (24)   MUNICIPALITY. The Village of Mogadore.
      (25)   NET OPERATING LOSS. A loss incurred by a person in the operation
of a trade or business. For a person who is not an individual, net operating
loss must be calculated on an adjusted federal taxable income basis without
regard to the deduction for net operating losses contained in R.C. § 718.01(E)
(8). NET OPERATING LOSS does not include unutilized losses resulting from basis
limitations, at-risk limitations, or passive activity loss limitations.
      (26)   (a)   NET PROFIT for a person who is an individual means the
individual's net profit required to be reported on schedule C, schedule E, or
schedule F reduced by any net operating loss carried forward. For the purposes
of this division, the net operating loss carried forward shall be calculated
and deducted in the same manner as provided in division (C)(26)(c) of this
section.
         (b)   NET PROFIT for a person other than an individual means adjusted
federal taxable income reduced by any net operating loss incurred by the person
in a taxable year beginning on or after January 1, 2017, subject to the
limitations of division (C)(26)(c) of this section.
         (c)   1.   The amount of such operating loss shall be deducted from
net profit to the extent necessary to reduce municipal taxable income to zero,
with any remaining unused portion of the net operating loss carried forward to
not more than five consecutive taxable years following the taxable year in
which the loss was incurred, but in no case for more years than necessary for
the deduction to be fully utilized.
            2.   No person shall use the deduction allowed by division (C)(26)
(c) of this section to offset qualifying wages.
            3.   a.   For taxable years beginning in 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021, or
2022, a person may not deduct more than 50% of the amount of the deduction
otherwise allowed by division (C)(26)(c) of this section.
               b.   For taxable years beginning in 2023 or thereafter, a person
may deduct the full amount allowed by division (C)(26)(c) of this section
without regard to the limitation of division (C)(26)(c)3.a. of this section.
            4.   Any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward deduction that is
available may be utilized before a taxpayer may deduct any amount pursuant to
division (C)(26)(c) of this section.
            5.   Nothing in division (C)(26)(c)3.a. of this section precludes a
person from carrying forward for use with respect to any return filed for a
taxable year beginning after 2018, any amount of net operating loss that was
not fully utilized by operation of division (C)(26)(c)3.a. of this section. To
the extent that an amount of net operating loss that was not fully utilized in
one or more taxable years by operation of division (C)(26)(c)3.a. of this
section is carried forward for use with respect to a return filed for a taxable
year beginning in 2019, 2020, 2021, or 2022, the limitation described in
division (C)(26)(c)3.a. of this section shall apply to the amount carried
forward.
         (d)   For the purposes of this chapter, and notwithstanding division
(C)(26)(b) of this section, net profit of a disregarded entity shall not be
taxable as against that disregarded entity, but shall instead be included in
the net profit of the owner of the disregarded entity.
         (e)   A publicly traded partnership that is treated as a partnership
for federal income tax purposes, and that is subject to tax on its net profits
by the municipality, may elect to be treated as a C corporation for the
municipality, and shall not be treated as the net profit or income of any owner
of the partnership. The election shall be made on the annual return for the
municipality. The municipality will treat the publicly traded partnership as a
C corporation if the election is so made.
            1.   An election to discontinue filing as a C corporation must be
made in the first year following the last year of a five-year election period
in effect under division (C)(26)(e) of this section. The election to
discontinue filing as a C corporation is binding for a five-year period
beginning with the first taxable year of the election and continues to be
binding for each subsequent five-year period unless the taxpayer elects to
discontinue filing municipal income tax returns as a partnership for municipal
purposes. An election to discontinue filing as a partnership must be made in
the first year following the last year of a five-year election period.
            2.   The publicly traded partnership shall not be required to file
the election with any municipal corporation in which the partnership is not
subject to taxation on its net profits, but division (C)(26)(e) of this section
applies to all municipal corporations in which an individual owner of the
partnership resides.
            3.   The individual owners of the partnership not filing as a C
corporation shall be required to file with their municipal corporation of
residence, and report partnership distribution of net profit.
      (27)   NONRESIDENT. An individual that is not a resident of the
municipality.
      (28)   OHIO BUSINESS GATEWAY. The online computer network system, created
under R.C. § 125.30, that allows persons to electronically file business reply
forms with state agencies and includes any successor electronic filing and
payment system.
      (29)   OTHER PAYER. Any person, other than an individual's employer or
the employer's agent, that pays an individual any amount included in the
federal gross income of the individual. OTHER PAYER includes casino operators
and video lottery terminal sales agents.
      (30)   PASS-THROUGH ENTITY. A partnership not treated as an association
taxable as a C corporation for federal income tax purposes, a limited liability
company not treated as an association taxable as a C corporation for federal
income tax purposes, an S corporation, or any other class of entity from which
the income or profits of the entity are given pass-through treatment for
federal income tax purposes. PASS-THROUGH ENTITY does not include a trust,
estate, grantor of a grantor trust, or disregarded entity.
      (31)   PENSION. Any amount paid to an employee or former employee that is
reported to the recipient on an IRS form 1099-R, or successor form. Pension
does not include deferred compensation, or amounts attributable to nonqualified
deferred compensation plans, reported as FICA/Medicare wages on an IRS form W-
2, Wage and Tax Statement, or successor form.
      (32)   PERSON. Includes individuals, firms, companies, joint stock
companies, business trusts, estates, trusts, partnerships, limited liability
partnerships, limited liability companies, associations, C corporations, S
corporations, governmental entities, and any other entity.
      (33)   POSTAL SERVICE. The United States Postal Service, or private
delivery service delivering documents and packages within an agreed upon
delivery schedule, or any other carrier service delivering the item.
      (34)   POSTMARK DATE, DATE OF POSTMARK, and similar terms include the
date recorded and marked by a delivery service and recorded database kept in
the regular course of its business and marked on the payment or document is
enclosed, the date on which the payment or document was given to the delivery
service for delivery.
      (35)   PUBLICLY TRADED PARTNERSHIP. Any partnership, an interest in which
is regularly traded on an established securities market, a publicly traded
partnership may have any number of partners.
      (36)   (a)   PRE-2017 NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYFORWARD. Any net operating
loss incurred in a taxable year beginning January 1, 2017, to the extent such
loss was permitted, by a resolution or chapter of the municipality that was
adopted by the municipality before January 1, 2016, to be carried forward and
utilized to offset income or net profit generated in such municipality in
future taxable years.
         (b)   For the purpose of calculating municipal taxable income, any
pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward may be carried forward to any taxable
year, including taxable years beginning in 2017 or thereafter, for the number
of taxable years provided in the resolution or chapter or until fully utilized,
whichever is earlier.
      (37)   QUALIFYING WAGES. Wages, as defined in section 3121(a) of the
Internal Revenue Code, without regard to any wage limitations, adjusted as
follows:
         (a)   Deduct the following amounts:
            1.   Any amount included in wages if the amount constitutes
compensation attributable to a plan or program described in section 125 of the
Internal Revenue Code.
            2.   Any amount included in wages if the amount constitutes payment
on account of a disability related to sickness or an accident paid by a party
unrelated to the employer, agent of an employer, or other payer.
            3.   [Intentionally Left Blank]
            4.   [Intentionally Left Blank]
            5.   Any amount included in wages that is exempt income.
         (b)   Add the following amounts:
            1.   Any amount not included in wages solely because the employee
was employed by the employer before April 1, 1986.
            2.   Any amount not included in wages because the amount arises
from the sale, exchange, or other disposition of a stock option, the exercise
of a stock option, or the sale, exchange,
or other disposition of stock purchased under a stock option. Division (C)(37)
(b)2. of this section applies only to those amounts constituting ordinary
income.
            3.   Any amount not included in wages if the amount is an amount
described in section 401(k), 403(b), or 457 of the Internal Revenue Code.
Division (C)(37)(b)3. of this section applies only to employee contributions
and employee deferrals.
            4.   Any amount that is supplemental unemployment compensation
benefits described in section 3402(o)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code and not
included in wages.
            5.   Any amount received that is treated as self-employment income
for federal tax purposes in accordance with section 1402(a)(8) of the Internal
Revenue Code.
            6.   Any amount not included in wages if all of the following
apply:
               a.   For the taxable year the amount is employee compensation
that is earned outside of the United States and that either is included in the
taxpayer's gross income for federal income tax purposes or would have been
included in the taxpayer's gross income for such purposes if the taxpayer did
not elect to exclude the income under section 911 of the Internal Revenue Code;
               b.   For no preceding taxable year did the amount constitute
wages as defined in section 3121(a) of the Internal Revenue Code;
               c.   For no succeeding taxable year will the amount constitute
wages; and
               d.   For any taxable year the amount has not otherwise been
added to wages pursuant to either division (C)(37)(b) of this section or R.C. §
718.03, as that section existed before the effective date of H.B. 5 of the
130th General Assembly, March 23, 2015.
      (38)   RELATED ENTITY.
         (a)   An individual stockholder, or a member of the stockholder's
family enumerated in section 318 of the Internal Revenue Code, if the
stockholder and the members of the stockholder's family own directly,
indirectly, beneficially, or constructively, in the aggregate, at least 50% of
the value of the taxpayer's outstanding stock;
         (b)   A stockholder, or a stockholder's partnership, estate, trust, or
corporation, if the stockholder and the stockholder's partnerships, estates,
trusts, or corporations own directly, indirectly, beneficially, or
constructively, in the aggregate, at least 50% of the value of the taxpayer's
outstanding stock;
         (c)   A corporation, or a party related to the corporation in a manner
that would require an attribution of stock from the corporation to the party or
from the party to the corporation under division
(C)(38)(d) of this section, provided the taxpayer owns directly, indirectly,
beneficially, or constructively, at least 50% of the value of the corporation's
outstanding stock;
         (d)   The attribution rules described in section 318 of the Internal
Revenue Code apply for the purpose of determining whether the ownership
requirements in divisions (C)(38)(a) to (c) of this section have been met.
      (39)   RELATED MEMBER. A person that, with respect to the taxpayer during
all or any portion of the taxable year, is either a related entity, a component
member as defined in section 1563(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, or a person
to or from whom there is attribution of stock ownership in accordance with
section 1563(e) of the Internal Revenue Code except, for purposes of
determining whether a person is a related member under this division, "twenty
per cent" shall be substituted for "5 percent" wherever "5 percent" appears in
section 1563(e) of the Internal Revenue Code.
      (40)   RESIDENT. An individual who is domiciled in the municipality as
determined under §
37.042.
      (41)   S CORPORATION. A person that has made an election under subchapter
S of Chapter 1 of Subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code for its taxable year.
      (42)   SCHEDULE C. Internal Revenue Service schedule C (form 1040) filed
by a taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      (43)   SCHEDULE E. Internal Revenue Service schedule E (form 1040) filed
by a taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      (44)   SCHEDULE F. Internal Revenue Service schedule F (form 1040) filed
by a taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      (45)   SINGLE MEMBER LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY. A limited liability
company that has one direct member.
      (46)   SMALL EMPLOYER. Any employer that had total revenue of less than
$500,000 during the preceding taxable year. For purposes of this division,
"total revenue" means receipts of any type or kind, including, but not limited
to, sales receipts; payments; rents; profits; gains, dividends, and other
investment income; commissions; premiums; money; property; grants;
contributions; donations; gifts; program service revenue; patient service
revenue; premiums; fees, including premium fees and service fees; tuition
payments; unrelated business revenue; reimbursements; any type of payment from
a governmental unit, including grants and other allocations; and any other
similar receipts reported for federal income tax generally accepted accounting
principles. SMALL EMPLOYER does not include the federal government; any state
government, including any state agency or instrumentality; any political
subdivision; or any entity treated as a government for financial accounting and
reporting purposes.
      (47)   (a)   TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The individual charged with direct
responsibility for administration of an income tax levied by a municipal
corporation in accordance with this chapter. Tax Administrator does not include
the State Tax Commissioner.
         (b)   TAX COMMISSIONER. The tax commissioner appointed under R.C. §
121.03.
      (48)   TAX RETURN PREPARER. Any individual described in section 7701(a)
(36) of the Internal Revenue Code and 26 C.F.R. 301.7701-15.
      (49)   TAXABLE YEAR. The corresponding tax reporting period as prescribed
for the taxpayer under the Internal Revenue Code.
      (50)   (a)   TAXPAYER. A person subject to a tax levied on income by a
municipal corporation in accordance with this chapter. TAXPAYER does not
include a grantor trust or, except as provided in division (C)(50)(b)1. of this
section, a disregarded entity.
         (b)   1.   A single member limited liability company that is a
disregarded entity for federal tax purposes may be a separate taxpayer from its
single member in all Ohio municipal corporations in which it either filed as a
separate taxpayer or did not file for its taxable year ending in 2003, if all
of the following conditions are met:
               a.   The limited liability company's single limited liability
company.
               b.   The limited liability company and its single member were
formed and doing business in one or more Ohio municipal corporations for at
least five years before January 1, 2004.
               c.   Not later than December 31, 2004, the limited liability
company and its single member each made an election to be treated as a separate
taxpayer under division (L) of R.C. § 718.01 as this section existed on
December 31, 2004.
               d.   The limited liability company was not formed for the
purpose of evading or reducing Ohio municipal corporation income tax liability
of the limited liability company or its single member.
               e.   The Ohio municipal corporation that was the primary place
of business of the sole member of the limited liability company consented to
the election.
            2.   For purposes of division (C)(50)(b)1.e. of this section, a
municipal corporation was the primary place of business of a limited liability
company if, for the limited liability company's taxable year ending in 2003,
its income tax liability was greater in that municipal corporation than in any
other municipal corporation in Ohio, and that tax liability to that municipal
corporation for its taxable year ending in 2003 was at least $400,000.
      (51)   TAXPAYERS' RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES. The rights provided to
taxpayers in R.C. §§ 718.11, 718.12, 718.19, 718.23, 718.36, 718.37, 718.38,
5717,011, and 5717.03 and any corresponding chapters of the municipality, and
the responsibilities of taxpayers to file, report, withhold, remit, and pay
municipal income tax and otherwise comply with R.C. Chapter 718 and
resolutions, chapters, and rules adopted by a municipal corporation for the
imposition and administration of a municipal income tax.
      (52)   VIDEO LOTTERY TERMINAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3770.21.
      (53)   VIDEO LOTTERY TERMINAL SALES AGENT. A lottery sales agent licensed
under R.C. Chapter 3770 to conduct video lottery terminals on behalf of the
state pursuant to R.C. § 3770.21.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 1-17-18)
Statutory reference:
   Related definitions, see R.C. § 718.01
§ 37.04 INCOME SUBJECT TO TAX FOR INDIVIDUALS
§ 37.041 DETERMINING MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME FOR INDIVIDUALS.
   (A)   Municipal taxable income for a resident of the municipality is
calculated as follows:
      (1)   Income reduced by exempt income to the extent such exempt income is
otherwise included in income, reduced by allowable employee business expense
deduction as found in §
37.03(C)(23)(b), further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss
carryforward equals municipal taxable income.
         (a)   INCOME is defined in §
37.03(C)(17).
            1.   QUALIFYING WAGES is defined in §
37.03(C)(37).
            2.   NET PROFIT is included in income, and is defined in §
37.03(C)(26). This section also provides that the net operating loss
carryforward shall be calculated and deducted in the same manner as provided in
§
37.03(C)(1)(h). Treatment of net profits received by an individual taxpayer
from rental real estate is provided in §
37.062(E).
            3.   Section
37.03(C)(17) provides the following: offsetting and net operating loss
carryforward treatment in §
37.03(C)(17)(a)2.a.; resident's distributive share of net profit from pass
through entity treatment in §
37.03(C)(17)(a)2.b.; treatment of S corporation distributive share of net
profit in the hands of the shareholder in §
37.03(C)(17)(a)3.; restriction of amount of loss permitted to be carried
forward for use by taxpayer in a subsequent taxable year in §
37.03(C)(17)(a)4.
            4.   PASS THROUGH ENTITY is defined in §
37.03(C)(30).
         (b)   EXEMPT INCOME is defined in §
37.03(C)(13).
         (c)   Allowable employee business expense deduction is described in §
37.03(C)(23)(b), and is subject to the limitations provided in that section.
         (d)   PRE-2017 NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYFORWARD is defined in §
37.03(C)(36).
   (B)   Municipal taxable income for a nonresident of the municipality is
calculated as follows:
      (1)   Income reduced by exempt income to the extent such exempt income is
otherwise included in income, as applicable, apportioned or sitused to the
municipality as provided in §
37.062, reduced by allowable employee business expense deduction as found in §
37.03(C)(23)(b), further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss
carryforward equals municipal taxable income.
         (a)   INCOME is defined in §
37.03(C)(17).
            1.   QUALIFYING WAGES is defined in §
37.03(C)(37).
            2.   NET PROFIT is included in "income", and is defined in §
37.03(C)(26). This section also provides that the net operating loss
carryforward shall be calculated and deducted in the same manner as provided in
§
37.03(C)(1)(h). Net profit for a nonresident individual includes any net profit
of the nonresident, but excludes the distributive share of net profit or loss
of only pass through entity owned directly or indirectly by the nonresident.
            3.   PASS THROUGH ENTITY is defined in §
37.03(C)(30).
         (b)   EXEMPT INCOME is defined in §
37.03(C)(13).
         (c)   Apportioned or sitused to the municipality as provided in §
37.062 includes the apportionment of net profit income attributable to work
done or services performed in the municipality. Treatment of net profits
received by an individual taxpayer from rental real estate is provided in §
37.062(E).
         (d)   Allowable employee business expense deduction as described in §
37.03(C)(23)(b), is subject to the limitations provided in that section. For a
nonresident of the municipality, the deduction is limited to the extent the
expenses are related to the performance of personal services by the nonresident
in the municipality.
         (e)   PRE-2017 NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYFORWARD is defined in §
37.03(C)(36).
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 1-17-18)
§ 37.042 DOMICILE.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   DOMICILE means the true, fixed and permanent home of the taxpayer
to which whenever absent, the taxpayer intends to return.
      (2)   An individual is presumed to be domiciled in the municipality for
all or part of a taxable year if the individual was domiciled in the
municipality on the last day of the immediately preceding taxable year or if
the Tax Administrator reasonably concludes that the individual is domiciled in
the municipality for all or part of the taxable year.
      (3)   An individual may rebut the presumption of domicile described in
division (A)(1) of this section if the individual establishes by a
preponderance of the evidence that the individual was not domiciled in the
municipality for all or part of the taxable year.
   (B)   For the purpose of determining whether an individual is domiciled in
the municipality for all or part of a taxable year, factors that may be
considered include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   The individual's domicile in other taxable years;
      (2)   The location at which the individual is registered to vote;
      (3)   The address on the individual's driver's license;
      (4)   The location of real estate for which the individual claimed a
property tax exemption or reduction allowed on the basis of the individual's
residence or domicile;
      (5)   The location and value of abodes owned or leased by the individual;
      (6)   Declarations, written or oral, made by the individual regarding the
individual's residency;
      (7)   The primary location at which the individual is employed;
      (8)   The location of educational institutions attended by the
individual's dependents as defined in section 152 of the Internal Revenue Code,
to the extent that tuition paid to such educational institution is based on the
residency of the individual or the individual's spouse in the municipal
corporation or state where the educational institution is located;
      (9)   The number of contact periods the individual has with the
municipality. For the purposes of this division, an individual has one "contact
period" with the municipality if the individual is away overnight from the
individual's abode located outside of the municipality and while away overnight
from that abode spends at least some portion, however minimal, of each of two
consecutive days in the municipality. For purposes of this section, the state's
contact period test or bright-line test and resulting determination have no
bearing on municipal residency or domicile.
   (C)   All applicable factors are provided in R.C. § 718.012.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 1-17-18)
Statutory reference:
   Domicile, see R.C. § 718.012
§ 37.043 EXEMPTION FOR MEMBER OR EMPLOYEE OF GENERAL ASSEMBLY AND CERTAIN
JUDGES.
   (A)   Only the municipal corporation of residence shall be permitted to levy
a tax on the income of any member or employee of the Ohio General Assembly,
including the Lieutenant Governor, whose income is received as a result of
services rendered as such member or employee and is paid from appropriated
funds of this state.
   (B)   Only the municipal corporation of residence and the City of Columbus
shall levy a tax on the income of the Chief Justice or a justice of the Supreme
Court received as a result of services rendered as the Chief Justice or
justice. Only the municipal corporation of residence shall levy a tax on the
income of a judge sitting by assignment of the Chief Justice or on the income
of a district court of appeals judge sitting in multiple locations within the
district, received as a result of services rendered as a judge.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 1-17-18)
Statutory reference:
   Exclusion of General Assembly employee or member and certain judges from
tax, see R.C. § 718.50
§ 37.05 COLLECTION AT SOURCE
§ 37.051 COLLECTION AT SOURCE; WITHHOLDING FROM QUALIFYING WAGES.
   (A)   (1)   Each employer, agent of an employer, or other payer located or
doing business in the municipality shall withhold from each employee an amount
equal to the qualifying wages of the employee earned by the employee in the
municipality multiplied by the applicable rate of the municipality's income
tax, except for qualifying wages for which withholding is not required under §
37.052 or division (D) or (F) of this section. An employer, agent of an
employer, or other payer shall deduct and withhold the tax from qualifying
wages on the date that the employer, agent, or other payer directly,
indirectly, or constructively pays the qualifying wages to, or credits the
qualifying wages to the benefit of, the employee.
      (2)   In addition to withholding the amounts required under division (A)
(1) of this section, an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer may also
deduct and withhold, on the request of an employee, taxes for the municipal
corporation in which the employee is a resident.
   (B)   (1)   An employer, agent of an employer, or other payer shall remit to
the Tax Administrator of the municipality the greater of the income taxes
deducted and withheld or the income taxes required to be deducted and withheld
by the employer, agent, or other payer, along with any report required by the
Tax Administrator to accompany such payment, according to the following
schedule:
         (a)   Any employer, agent of an employer, or other payer not required
to make payments under division (B)(1)(b) of this section of taxes required to
be deducted and withheld shall make quarterly payments to the Tax Administrator
not later than the 15th day of the month following the end of each calendar
quarter.
         (b)   Taxes required to be deducted and withheld shall be remitted
monthly to the Tax Administrator if the total taxes deducted and withheld or
required to be deducted and withheld by the employer, agent, or other payer on
behalf of the municipal corporation in the preceding calendar year exceeded
$2,399, or if the total amount of taxes deducted and withheld or required to be
deducted and withheld on behalf of the municipality in any month of the
preceding calendar quarter exceeded $200. Payment under division (B)(1)(b) of
this section shall be made to the Tax Administrator not later than 15 days
after the last day of each month for which the tax was withheld.
         (c)   Any employer, agent of an employer or other payer is required to
make payment by electronic funds transfer to the Tax Administrator of all taxes
deducted and withheld on behalf of the employee for remittance to the
municipality if the employer, agent of an employer, or other payer is required
to make payments electronically for the purpose of paying federal taxes
withheld on payments to employees under section 6302 of the Internal Revenue
Code, 26 C.F.R. 31.6302-1, or any other federal statute or regulation. The
payment of tax by electronic funds transfer under this division does not affect
an employer's, agent's, or other payer's obligation to file any return as
required under this section. Once the threshold for remitting payment
electronically for federal purposes has been met, any accrued municipal income
tax withheld from employee qualifying wages earned within the municipality
shall be remitted to the municipality at the same time that the federal tax
withholding payment is due.
   (C)   An employer, agent of an employer, or other payer shall make and file
a return showing the amount of tax withheld by the employer, agent, or other
payer from the qualifying wages of each employee and remitted to the Tax
Administrator. A return filed by an employer, agent, or other payer under this
division shall be accepted by the Tax Administrator and the municipality as the
return required of an employee whose sole income subject to the tax under this
chapter is the qualifying wages reported by the employee's employer, agent of
an employer, or other payer, unless the municipality requires all resident
individual taxpayers to file a tax return under §
37.091.
   (D)   An employer, agent of an employer, or other payer is not required to
withhold municipal income tax with respect to an individual's disqualifying
disposition of an incentive stock option if, at the time of the disqualifying
disposition, the individual is not an employee of either the corporation with
respect to whose stock the option has been issued or of such corporation's
successor entity.
   (E)   (1)   An employee is not relieved from liability for a tax by the
failure of the employer, agent of an employer, or other payer to withhold the
tax as required under this chapter or by the employer's, agent's, or other
payer's exemption from the requirement to withhold the tax.
      (2)   The failure of an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer to
remit to the municipality the tax withheld relieves the employee from liability
for that tax unless the employee colluded with the employer, agent, or other
payer in connection with the failure to remit the tax withheld.
   (F)   Compensation deferred before June 26, 2003, is not subject to any
municipal corporation income tax or municipal income tax withholding
requirement to the extent the deferred compensation does not constitute
qualifying wages at the time the deferred compensation is paid or distributed.
   (G)   Each employer, agent of an employer, or other payer required to
withhold taxes is liable for the payment of that amount required to be
withheld, whether or not such taxes have been withheld, and such amount shall
be deemed to be held in trust for the municipality until such time as the
withheld amount is remitted to the Tax Administrator.
   (H)   On or before the last day of February of each year, an employer shall
file a withholding reconciliation return with the Tax Administrator listing the
names, addresses, and social security numbers of all employees from whose
qualifying wages tax was withheld or should have been withheld for the
municipality during the preceding calendar year, the amount of tax withheld, if
any, from each such employee's qualifying wage, the total amount of qualifying
wages paid to such employee during the preceding calendar year, the name of
every other municipal corporation for which tax was withheld or should have
been withheld from such employee during the preceding calendar year, any other
information required for federal income tax reporting purposes on Internal
Revenue Service form W-2 or its equivalent form with respect to such employee,
and other information as may be required by the Tax Administrator.
   (I)   The officer or the employee of the employer, agent of an employer, or
other payer with control or direct supervision of or charged with the
responsibility for withholding the tax or filing the reports and making
payments as required by this section, shall be personally liable for a failure
to file a report or pay the tax due as required by this section. The
dissolution of an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer does not
discharge the officer's or employee's liability for a failure of the employer,
agent of an employer, or other payer to file returns or pay any tax due.
   (J)   An employer is required to deduct and withhold municipal income tax on
tips and gratuities received by the employer's employees and constituting
qualifying wages only to the extent that the tips and gratuities are under the
employer's control. For the purposes of this division, a tip or gratuity is
under the employer's control if the tip or gratuity is paid by the customer to
the employer for subsequent remittance to the employee, or if the customer pays
the tip or gratuity by credit card, debit card, or other electronic means.
   (K)   A Tax Administrator shall consider any tax withheld by an employer at
the request of an employee when such tax is not otherwise required to be
withheld by this chapter to be tax required to be withheld and remitted for the
purposes of this section.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 1-17-18)
Statutory reference:
   Withholding from qualifying wages, see R.C. § 718.03
§ 37.052 COLLECTION AT SOURCE; OCCASIONAL ENTRANT.
   (A)   The following terms as used in this section:
      (1)   Employer includes a person that is a related member to or of an
employer.
      (2)   PROFESSIONAL ATHLETE means an athlete who performs services in a
professional athletic event for wages or other remuneration.
      (3)   PROFESSIONAL ENTERTAINER means a person who performs services in
the professional performing arts for wages or other remuneration on a per-event
basis.
      (4)   PUBLIC FIGURE means a person of prominence who performs services at
discrete events, such as speeches, public appearances, or similar events, for
wages or other remuneration on a per-event basis.
      (5)   FIXED LOCATION means a permanent place of doing business in this
state, such as an office, warehouse, storefront, or similar location owned or
controlled by an employer.
      (6)   WORKSITE LOCATION means a construction site or other temporary
worksite in this state at which the employer provides services for more than 20
days during the calendar year. "Worksite location" does not include the home of
an employee.
      (7)   PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK means the fixed location to which an
employee is required to report for employment duties on a regular and ordinary
basis. If the employee is not required to report for employment duties on a
regular and ordinary basis to a fixed location, PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK means
the worksite location in this state to which the employee is required to report
for employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis. If the employee is not
required to report for employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis to a
fixed location or worksite location, PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK means the location
in this state at which the employee spends the greatest number of days in a
calendar year performing services for or on behalf of the employee's employer.
         If there is not a single municipal corporation in which the employee
spent the "greatest number of days in a calendar year" performing services for
or on behalf of the employer, but instead there are two or more municipal
corporations in which the employee spent an identical number of days that is
greater than the number of days the employee spent in any other municipal
corporation, the employer shall allocate any of the employee's qualifying wages
subject to division (B)(1)(a) of this section among those two or more municipal
corporations. The allocation shall be made using any fair and reasonable
method, including, but not limited to, an equal allocation among such municipal
corporations or an allocation based upon the time spent or sales made by the
employee in each such municipal corporation. A municipal corporation to which
qualifying wages are allocated under this division shall be the employee's
"principal place of work" with respect to those qualifying wages for the
purposes of this section.
         For the purposes of this division, the location at which an employee
spends a particular day shall be deemed in accordance with division (B)(2) of
this section, except that "location" shall be substituted for "municipal
corporation" wherever "municipal corporation" appears in that division.
   (B)   (1)   Subject to divisions (C), (E), and (F) of this section, an
employer is not required to withhold municipal income tax on qualifying wages
paid to an employee for the performance of personal services in a municipal
corporation that imposes such a tax if the employee performed such services in
the municipal corporation on 20 or fewer days in a calendar year, unless one of
the following conditions applies:
         (a)   The employee's principal place of work is located in the
municipality.
         (b)   The employee performed services at one or more presumed worksite
locations in the municipality. For the purposes of this division, PRESUMED
WORKSITE LOCATION means a construction site or other temporary worksite in this
state at which the employer provides services that can reasonably be expected
by the employer to last more than 20 days in a calendar year. Services can
reasonably be expected by the employer to last more than 20 days if either of
the following applies at the time the services commence:
            1.   The nature of the services are such that it will require more
than 20 days of actual services to complete the services;
            2.   The agreement between the employer and its customer to perform
services at a location requires the employer to perform actual services at the
location for more than 20 days.
         (c)   The employee is a resident of the municipality and has requested
that the employer withhold tax from the employee's qualifying wages as provided
in §
37.051.
         (d)   The employee is a professional athlete, professional
entertainer, or public figure, and the qualifying wages are paid for the
performance of services in the employee's capacity as a professional athlete,
professional entertainer, or public figure within the municipality.
      (2)   For the purposes of division (B)(1) of this section, an employee
shall be considered to have spent a day performing services in a municipal
corporation only if the employee spent more time performing services for or on
behalf of the employer in that municipal corporation than in any other
municipal corporation on that day. For the purposes of determining the amount
of time an employee spent in a particular location, the time spent performing
one or more of the following activities shall be considered to have been spent
at the employee's principal place of work:
         (a)   Traveling to the location at which the employee will first
perform services for the employer for the day;
         (b)   Traveling from a location at which the employee was performing
services for the employer to any other location;
         (c)   Traveling from any location to another location in order to pick
up or load, for the purpose of transportation or delivery, property that has
been purchased, sold, assembled, fabricated, repaired, refurbished, processed,
remanufactured, or improved by the employee's employer;
         (d)   Transporting or delivering property described in division (B)(2)
(c) of this section, provided that, upon delivery of the property, the employee
does not temporarily or permanently affix the property to real estate owned,
used, or controlled by a person other than the employee's employer;
         (e)   Traveling from the location at which the employee makes the
employee's final delivery or pick-up for the day to either the employee's
principal place of work or a location at which the employee will not perform
services for the employer.
   (C)   If the principal place of work of an employee is located in a
municipal corporation that imposes an income tax in accordance with this
chapter, the exception from withholding requirements described in division (B)
(1) of this section shall apply only if, with respect to the employee's
qualifying wages described in that division, the employer withholds and remits
tax on such qualifying wages to the municipal corporation in which the
employee's principal place of work is located.
   (D)   (1)   Except as provided in division (D)(2) of this section, if,
during a calendar year, the number of days an employee spends performing
personal services in a municipal corporation exceeds the 20-day threshold
described in division (B)(1) of this section, the employer shall withhold and
remit tax to that municipal corporation for any subsequent days in that
calendar year on which the employer pays qualifying wages to the employee for
personal services performed in that municipal corporation.
      (2)   An employer required to begin withholding tax for a municipal
corporation under division (D)(1) of this section may elect to withhold tax for
that municipal corporation for the first 20 days on which the employer paid
qualifying wages to the employee for personal services performed in that
municipal corporation.
      (3)   If an employer makes the election described in division (D)(2) of
this section, the taxes withheld and paid by such an employer during those
first 20 days to the municipal corporation in which the employee's principal
place of work is located are refundable to the employee.
   (E)   Without regard to the number of days in a calendar year on which an
employee performs personal services in any municipal corporation, an employer
shall withhold municipal income tax on all of the employee's qualifying wages
for a taxable year and remit that tax only to the municipal corporation in
which the employer's fixed location is located if the employer qualifies as a
small employer as defined in §
37.03. To determine whether an employer qualifies as a small employer for a
taxable year, a Tax Administrator may require the employer to provide the Tax
Administrator with the employer's federal income tax return for the preceding
taxable year.
   (F)   Divisions (B)(1) and (D) of this section shall not apply to the extent
that a Tax Administrator and an employer enter into an agreement regarding the
manner in which the employer shall comply with the requirements of §
37.051.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 1-17-18)
Statutory reference:
   Definitions, see R.C. § 718.01
   Occasional entrant, personal services; withholding, see R.C. § 718.011
§ 37.053 COLLECTION AT SOURCE; CASINO AND VLT.
   (A)   The municipality shall require a casino facility or a casino operator,
as defined in Section 6(C)(9) of Article XV, Ohio Constitution, and R.C. §
3772.01, respectively, or a lottery sales agent conducting video lottery
terminals sales on behalf of the state to withhold and remit municipal income
tax with respect to amounts other than qualifying wages as provided, in this
section.
   (B)   If a person's winnings at a casino facility are an amount for which
reporting to the Internal Revenue Service of the amount is required by section
6041 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, the casino operator shall deduct
and withhold municipal income tax from the person's winnings at the rate of the
tax imposed by the municipal corporation in which the casino facility is
located.
   (C)   Amounts deducted and withheld by a casino operator are held in trust
for the benefit of the municipal corporation to which the tax is owed.
      (1)   On or before the tenth day of each month, the casino operator shall
file a return electronically with the Tax Administrator of the municipality,
providing the name, address, and social security number of the person from
whose winnings amounts were deducted and withheld, the amount of each such
deduction and withholding during the preceding calendar month, the amount of
the winnings from which each such amount was withheld, the type of casino
gaming that resulted in such winnings, and any other information required by
the Tax Administrator. With this return, the casino operator shall remit,
electronically to the municipality all amounts deducted and withheld during the
preceding month.
      (2)   Annually, on or before the 31st day of January, a casino operator
shall file an annual return electronically with the Tax Administrator of the
municipal corporation in which the casino facility is located, indicating the
total amount deducted and withheld during the preceding calendar year. The
casino operator shall remit electronically with the annual return any amount
that was deducted and withheld and that was not previously remitted. If the
name, address, or social security number of a person or the amount deducted and
withheld with respect to that person was omitted on a monthly return for that
reporting period, that information shall be indicated on the annual return.
      (3)   Annually, on or before the 31st day of January, a casino operator
shall issue an information return to each person with respect to whom an amount
has been deducted and withheld during the preceding calendar year. The
information return shall show the total amount of municipal income tax deducted
from the person's winnings during the preceding year. The casino operator shall
provide to the Tax Administrator a copy of each information return issued under
this division. The Administrator may require that such copies be transmitted
electronically.
         A casino operator that fails to file a return and remit the amounts
deducted and withheld shall be personally liable for the amount withheld and
not remitted. Such personal liability extends to any penalty and interest
imposed for the late filing of a return or the late payment of tax deducted and
withheld.
      (4)   If a casino operator sells the casino facility or otherwise quits
the casino business, the amounts deducted and withheld along with any penalties
and interest thereon are immediately due and payable. The successor shall
withhold an amount of the purchase money that is sufficient to cover the
amounts deducted and withheld along with any penalties and interest thereon
until the predecessor casino operator produces either of the following:
         (a)   A receipt from the Tax Administrator showing that the amounts
deducted and withheld and penalties and interest thereon have been paid;
         (b)   A certificate from the Tax Administrator indicating that no
amounts are due.
            If the successor fails to withhold purchase money, the successor is
personally liable for the payment of the amounts deducted and withheld and
penalties and interest thereon.
      (5)   The failure of a casino operator to deduct and withhold the
required amount from a person's winnings does not relieve that person from
liability for the municipal income tax with respect to those winnings.
   (D)   If a person's prize award from a video lottery terminal is an amount
for which reporting to the Internal Revenue Service is required by section 6041
of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, the video lottery sales agent shall
deduct and withhold municipal income tax from the person's prize award at the
rate of the tax imposed by the municipal corporation in which the video lottery
terminal facility is located.
   (E)   Amounts deducted and withheld by a video lottery sales agent are held
in trust for the benefit of the municipal corporation to which the tax is owed.
      (1)   The video lottery sales agent shall issue to a person from whose
prize award an amount has been deducted and withheld a receipt for the amount
deducted and withheld, and shall obtain from the person receiving a prize award
the person's name, address, and social security number in order to facilitate
the preparation of returns required by this section.
      (2)   On or before the tenth day of each month, the video lottery sales
agent shall file a return electronically with the Tax Administrator of the
municipality providing the names, addresses, and social security numbers of the
persons from whose prize awards amounts were deducted and withheld, the amount
of each such deduction and withholding during the preceding calendar month, the
amount of the prize award from which each such amount was withheld, and any
other information required by the Tax Administrator. With the return, the video
lottery sales agent shall remit electronically to the Tax Administrator all
amounts deducted and withheld during the preceding month.
      (3)   A video lottery sales agent shall maintain a record of all receipts
issued under division (E) of this section and shall make those records
available to the Tax Administrator upon request. Such records shall be
maintained in accordance with R.C. § 5747.17 and any rules adopted pursuant
thereto.
      (4)   Annually, on or before the 31st day of January, each video lottery
terminal sales agent shall file an annual return electronically with the Tax
Administrator of the municipal corporation in which the facility is located
indicating the total amount deducted and withheld during the preceding calendar
year. The video lottery sales agent shall remit electronically with the annual
return any amount that was deducted and withheld and that was not previously
remitted. If the name, address, or social security number of a person or the
amount deducted and withheld with respect to that person was omitted on a
monthly return for that reporting period, that information shall be indicated
on the annual return.
      (5)   Annually, on or before the 31st day of January, a video lottery
sales agent shall issue an information return to each person with respect to
whom an amount has been deducted and withheld during the preceding calendar
year. The information return shall show the total amount of municipal income
tax deducted and withheld from the person's prize award by the video lottery
sales agent during the preceding year. A video lottery sales agent shall
provide to the Tax Administrator of the municipal corporation a copy of each
information return issued under this division. The Tax Administrator may
require that such copies be transmitted electronically.
      (6)   A video lottery sales agent who fails to file a return and remit
the amounts deducted and withheld is personally liable for the amount deducted
and withheld and not remitted. Such personal liability extends to any penalty
and interest imposed for the late filing of a return or the late payment of tax
deducted and withheld.
   (F)   If a video lottery sales agent ceases to operate video lottery
terminals, the amounts deducted and withheld along with any penalties and
interest thereon are immediately due and payable. The successor of the video
lottery sales agent that purchases the video lottery terminals from the agent
shall withhold an amount from the purchase money that is sufficient to cover
the amounts deducted and withheld and any penalties and interest thereon until
the predecessor video lottery sales agent operator produces either of the
following:
      (1)   A receipt from the Tax Administrator showing that the amounts
deducted and withheld and penalties and interest thereon have been paid;
      (2)   A certificate from the Tax Administrator indicating that no amounts
are due. If the successor fails to withhold purchase money, the successor is
personally liable for the payment of the amounts deducted and withheld and
penalties and interest thereon.
   (G)   The failure of a video lottery sales agent to deduct and withhold the
required amount from a person's prize award does not relieve that person from
liability for the municipal income tax with respect to that prize award.
   (H)   If a casino operator or lottery sales agent files a return late, fails
to file a return, remits amounts deducted and withheld late, or fails to remit
amounts deducted and withheld as required under this section, the Tax
Administrator of a municipal corporation may impose the following applicable
penalty:
      (1)   For the late remittance of, or failure to remit, tax deducted and
withheld under this section, a penalty equal to 50% of the tax deducted and
withheld;
      (2)   For the failure to file, or the late filing of, a monthly or annual
return, a penalty of $500 for each return not filed or filed late. Interest
shall accrue on past due amounts deducted and withheld at the rate prescribed
in R.C. § 5703.47.
   (I)   Amounts deducted and withheld on behalf of a municipal corporation
shall be allowed as a credit against payment of the tax imposed by the
municipal corporation and shall be treated as taxes paid for purposes of §
37.07. This division applies only to the person for whom the amount is deducted
and withheld.
   (J)   The Tax Administrator shall prescribe the forms of the receipts and
returns required under this section.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 1-17-18)
Statutory reference:
   Withholding by casinos and lottery sales agents, see R.C. § 718.031
§ 37.06 INCOME SUBJECT TO NET PROFIT TAX
§ 37.061 DETERMINING MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME FOR TAXPAYERS WHO ARE NOT
INDIVIDUALS.
   Municipal taxable income for a taxpayer who is not an individual for the
municipality is calculated as follows:
   (A)   Income reduced by exempt income to the extent otherwise included in
income, multiplied by apportionment, further reduced by any pre-2017 net
operating loss carryforward equals municipal taxable income.
      (1)   Income for a taxpayer that is not an individual means the net
profit of the taxpayer.
         (a)   NET PROFIT for a person other than an individual is defined in §
37.03(C)(26).
         (b)   ADJUSTED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME is defined in §
37.03(C)(1).
      (2)   EXEMPT INCOME is defined in §
37.03(C)(13).
      (3)   APPORTIONMENT means the apportionment as determined by §
37.062.
      (4)   PRE-2017 NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYFORWARD is defined in §
37.03(C)(36).
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 1-17-18)
Statutory reference:
   Definitions, see R.C. § 718.01
§ 37.062 NET PROFIT; INCOME SUBJECT TO NET PROFIT TAX; ALTERNATIVE
APPORTIONMENT.
   This section applies to any taxpayer engaged in a business or profession in
the municipality unless the taxpayer is an individual who resides in the
municipality or the taxpayer is an electric company, combined company, or
telephone company that is subject to and required to file reports under R.C.
Chapter 5745.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (B)(1) and (I) of this
section, net profit from a business or profession conducted both within and
without the boundaries of the municipality shall be considered as having a
taxable situs in the municipality for purposes of municipal income taxation in
the same proportion as the average ratio of the following:
      (1)   The average original cost of the real property and tangible
personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in the business or profession
in the municipality during the taxable period to the average original cost of
all of the real and tangible personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in
the business or profession during the same period, wherever situated.
         As used in the preceding paragraph, tangible personal or real property
shall include property rented or leased by the taxpayer and the value of such
properly shall be determined by multiplying the annual rental thereon by eight;
      (2)   Wages, salaries, and other compensation paid during the taxable
period to individuals employed in the business or profession for services
performed in the municipality to wages, salaries, and other compensation paid
during the same period to individuals employed in the business or profession,
wherever the individual's services are performed, excluding compensation from
which taxes are not required to be withheld under §
37.052.
      (3)   Total gross receipts of the business or profession from sales and
rentals made and services performed during the taxable period in the
municipality to total gross receipts of the business or profession during the
same period from sales, rentals, and services, wherever made or performed.
   (B)   (1)   If the apportionment factors described in division (A) of this
section do not fairly represent the extent of a taxpayer's business activity in
the municipality, the taxpayer may request, or the Tax Administrator of the
municipality may require, that the taxpayer use, with respect to all or any
portion of the income of the taxpayer, an alternative apportionment method
involving one or more of the following:
         (a)   Separate accounting;
         (b)   The exclusion of one or more of the factors;
         (c)   The inclusion of one or more additional factors that would
provide for a more fair apportionment of the income of the taxpayer to the
municipality;
         (d)   A modification of one or more of the factors.
      (2)   A taxpayer request to use an alternative apportionment method shall
be in writing and shall accompany a tax return, timely filed appeal of an
assessment, or timely filed amended tax return. The taxpayer may use the
requested alternative method unless the Tax Administrator denies the request in
an assessment issued within the period prescribed by §
37.19(A).
      (3)   A Tax Administrator may require a taxpayer to use an alternative
apportionment method as described in division (B)(1) of this section only by
issuing an assessment to the taxpayer within the period prescribed by §
37.19(A).
      (4)   Nothing in division (B) of this section nullifies or otherwise
affects any alternative apportionment arrangement approved by a Tax
Administrator or otherwise agreed upon by both the Tax Administrator and
taxpayer before January 1, 2016.
   (C)   As used in division (A)(2) of this section, "wages, salaries, and
other compensation" includes only wages, salaries, or other compensation paid
to an employee for services performed at any of the following locations:
      (1)   A location that is owned, controlled, or used by, rented to, or
under the possession of one of the following:
         (a)   The employer;
         (b)   A vendor, customer, client, or patient of the employer, or a
related member of such a vendor, customer, client, or patient;
         (c)   A vendor, customer, client, or patient of a person described in
division (C)(1)(b) of this section, or a related member of such a vendor,
customer, client, or patient.
      (2)   Any location at which a trial, appeal, hearing, investigation,
inquiry, review, court-martial, or similar administrative, judicial, or
legislative matter or proceeding is being conducted, provided that the
compensation is paid for services performed for, or on behalf of, the employer
or that the employee's presence at the location directly or indirectly benefits
the employer;
      (3)   Any other location, if the Tax Administrator determines that the
employer directed the employee to perform the services at the other location in
lieu of a location described in division (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section
solely in order to avoid or reduce the employer's municipal income tax
liability. If a Tax Administrator makes such a determination, the employer may
dispute the determination by establishing, by a preponderance of the evidence,
that the Tax Administrator's determination was unreasonable.
   (D)   For the purposes of division (A)(3) of this section, and except as
provided in division (I) of this section, receipts from sales and rentals made
and services performed shall be sitused to a municipal corporation as follows:
      (1)   Gross receipts from the sale of tangible personal property shall be
issued to the municipal corporation only if, regardless of where title passes,
the property meets either of the following criteria:
         (a)   The property is shipped to or delivered within the village from
a stock of goods located within the village.
         (b)   The property is delivered within the village from a location
outside the village, provided the taxpayer is regularly engaged through its own
employees in the solicitation or promotion of sales within the village and the
sales result from such solicitation or promotion.
      (2)   Gross receipts from the sale of services shall be sitused to the
municipal corporation.
      (3)   To the extent included in income, gross receipts from the sale of
real property located in the municipal corporation shall be sitused to the
municipal corporation.
      (4)   To the extent included in income, gross receipts from rents and
royalties from real property located in the municipal corporation shall be
sitused to the municipal corporation.
      (5)   Gross receipts from rents and royalties from tangible personal
property shall be sitused to the municipal corporation based upon the extent to
which the tangible personal property is used in the municipal corporation.
   (E)   The net profit received by an individual taxpayer from the rental of
real estate owned directly by the individual or by a disregarded entity owned
by the individual shall be subject to tax only by the municipal corporation in
which the property generating the net profit is located and the municipal
corporation in which the individual taxpayer that receives the net profit
resides.
      A municipal corporation shall allow such taxpayers to elect to use
separate accounting for the purpose of calculating net profit sitused under
this division to the municipal corporation in which the property is located.
   (F)   (1)   Except as provided in division (F)(2) of this section,
commissions received by a real estate agent or broker relating to the sale,
purchase, or lease of real estate shall be sitused to the municipal corporation
in which the real estate is located. Net profit reported by the real estate
agent or broker shall be allocated to a municipal corporation based upon the
ratio of the commissions the agent or broker received from the sale, purchase,
or lease of real estate located in the municipal corporation to the commissions
received from the sale, purchase, or lease of real estate everywhere in the
taxable year.
      (2)   An individual who is a resident of a municipal corporation that
imposes a municipal income tax shall report the individual's net profit from
all real estate activity on the individual's annual tax return for that
municipal corporation. The individual may claim a credit for taxes the
individual paid on such net profit to another municipal corporation to the
extent that such credit is allowed under §
37.081.
   (G)   If, in computing a taxpayer's adjusted federal taxable income, the
taxpayer deducted any amount with respect to a stock option granted to an
employee, and if the employee is not required to include in the employee's
income any such amount or a portion thereof because it is exempted from
taxation under §
37.03(C)(13)(l), by a municipal corporation to which the taxpayer has
apportioned a portion of its net profit, the taxpayer shall add the amount that
is exempt from taxation to the taxpayer's net profit that was apportioned to
that municipal corporation. In no case shall a taxpayer be required to add to
its net profit that was apportioned to that municipal corporation any amount
other than the amount upon which the employee would be required to pay tax were
the amount related to the stock option not exempted from taxation.
      This division applies solely for the purpose of making an adjustment to
the amount of a taxpayer's net profit that was apportioned to a municipal
corporation under this section.
   (H)   When calculating the ratios described in division (A) of this section
for the purposes of that division or division (B) of this section, the owner of
a disregarded entity shall include in the owner's ratios the property, payroll,
and gross receipts of such disregarded entity.
   (I)   (1)   As used in this division:
         (a)   QUALIFYING REMOTE EMPLOYEE OR OWNER means an individual who is
an employee of a taxpayer or who is a partner or member holding an ownership
interest in a taxpayer that is treated as a partnership for federal income tax
purposes, provided that the individual meets both of the following criteria:
            1.   The taxpayer has assigned the individual to a qualifying
reporting location.
            2.   The individual is permitted or required to perform services
for the taxpayer at a qualifying remote work location.
         (b)   QUALIFYING REMOTE WORK LOCATION means a permanent or temporary
location at which an employee or owner chooses or is required to perform
services for the taxpayer, other than a reporting location of the taxpayer or
any other location owned or controlled by a customer or client of the taxpayer.
QUALIFYING REMOTE WORK LOCATION may include the residence of an employee or
owner and may be located outside of a municipal corporation that imposes an
income tax in accordance with this chapter. An employee or owner may have more
than one qualifying remote work location during a taxable year.
         (c)   REPORTING LOCATION means either of the following:
            1.   A permanent or temporary place of doing business, such as an
office, warehouse, storefront, construction site, or similar location, that is
owned or controlled directly or indirectly by the taxpayer;
            2.   Any location in this state owned or controlled by a customer
or client of the taxpayer, provided that the taxpayer is required to withhold
taxes under §
37.051, on qualifying wages paid to an employee for the performance of personal
services at that location.
         (d)   QUALIFYING REPORTING LOCATION means one of the following:
            1.   The reporting location in this state at which an employee or
owner performs services for the taxpayer on a regular or periodic basis during
the taxable year;
            2.   If no reporting location exists in this state for an employee
or owner under division (I)(1)(d)1. of this section, the reporting location in
this state at which the employee's or owner's supervisor regularly or
periodically reports during the taxable year;
            3.   If no reporting location exists in this state for an employee
or owner under division (I)(1)(d)1. or 2. of this section, the location that
the taxpayer otherwise assigns as the employee's or owner's qualifying
reporting location, provided the assignment is made in good faith and is
recorded and maintained in the taxpayer's business records. A taxpayer may
change the qualifying reporting location designated for an employee or owner
under this division at any time.
      (2)   For tax years ending on or after December 31, 2023, a taxpayer may
elect to apply the provisions of this division to the apportionment of its net
profit from a business or profession. For taxpayers that make this election,
the provisions of division (B) of this section apply to such apportionment
except as otherwise provided in this division.
         A taxpayer shall make the election allowed under this division in
writing on or with the taxpayer's net profit return or, if applicable, a timely
filed amended net profit return or a timely filed appeal of an assessment. The
election applies to the taxable year for which that return or appeal is filed
and for all subsequent taxable years, until the taxpayer revokes the election.
         The taxpayer shall make the initial election with the tax
administrator of each municipal corporation with which, after applying the
apportionment provisions authorized in this division, the taxpayer is required
to file a net profit tax return for that taxable year. A taxpayer shall not be
required to notify the tax administrator of a municipal corporation in which a
qualifying remote employee's or owner's qualifying remote work location is
located, unless the taxpayer is otherwise required to file a net profit return
with that municipal corporation due to business operations that are unrelated
to the employee's or owner's activity at the qualifying remote work location.
         After the taxpayer makes the initial election, the election applies to
every municipal corporation in which the taxpayer conducts business. The
taxpayer shall not be required to file a net profit return with a municipal
corporation solely because a qualifying remote employee's or owner's qualifying
remote work location is located in such municipal corporation.
         Nothing in this division prohibits a taxpayer from making a new
election under this division after properly revoking a prior election.
      (3)   For the purpose of calculating the ratios described in division (B)
(l) of this section, all of the following apply to a taxpayer that has made the
election described in division (I)(2):
         (a)   For the purpose of division (B)(1)(a) of this section, the
average original cost of any tangible personal property used by a qualifying
remote employee or owner at that individual's qualifying remote work location
shall be sitused to that individual's qualifying reporting location.
         (b)   For the purpose of division (B)(1)(b) of this section, any
wages, salaries, and other compensation paid during the taxable period to a
qualifying remote employee or owner for services performed at that individual's
qualifying remote work location shall be sitused to that individual's
qualifying reporting location.
         (c)   For the purpose of division (B)(1)(c) of this section, and
notwithstanding division (B)(4) of this section, any gross receipts of the
business or profession from services performed during the taxable period by a
qualifying remote employee or owner for services performed at that individual's
qualifying remote work location shall be sitused to that individual's
qualifying reporting location.
      (4)   Nothing in this division prevents a taxpayer from requesting, or a
tax administrator from requiring, that the taxpayer use, with respect to all or
a portion of the income of the taxpayer, an alternative apportionment method as
described in division (B)(2) of this section. However, a tax administrator
shall not require an alternative apportionment method in such a manner that it
would require a taxpayer to file a net profit return with a municipal
corporation solely because a qualifying remote employee's or owner's qualifying
remote work location is located in that municipal corporation.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, nothing in this
division is intended to affect the withholding of taxes on qualifying wages
pursuant to §
37.051.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 1-17-18; Am. Ord. 2018-96, passed 12-19-18; Am. Ord. 2023-
77, passed 11-1-23)
Statutory reference:
   Income subject to tax, see R.C. § 718.02
§ 37.063 CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL INCOME TAX RETURN.
   (A)   As, used in this section:
      (1)   AFFILIATED GROUP OF CORPORATIONS means an affiliated group as
defined in section 1504 of the Internal Revenue Code, except that, if such a
group includes at least one incumbent local exchange carrier that is primarily
engaged in the business of providing local exchange telephone service in this
state, the affiliated group shall not include any incumbent local exchange
carrier that would otherwise be included in the group.
      (2)   CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL INCOME TAX RETURN means a consolidated return
filed for federal income tax purposes pursuant to section 1501 of the Internal
Revenue Code.
      (3)   CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME means the consolidated taxable
income of an affiliated group of corporations, as computed for the purposes of
filing a consolidated federal income tax return, before consideration of net
operating losses or special deductions. CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME
does not include income or loss of an incumbent local exchange carrier that is
excluded from the affiliated group under division (A)(1) of this section.
      (4)   INCUMBENT LOCAL EXCHANGE CARRIER has the same meaning as in R.C. §
4927.01.
      (5)   LOCAL EXCHANGE TELEPHONE SERVICE has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5727.01.
   (B)   (1)   For taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2016, a
taxpayer that is a member of an affiliated group of corporations may elect to
file a consolidated municipal income tax return for a taxable year if at least
one member of the affiliated group of corporations is subject to the municipal
income tax in that taxable year and if the affiliated group of corporations
filed a consolidated federal income tax return with respect to that, taxable
year.
         (a)   The election is binding for a five-year period beginning with
the first taxable year of the initial election unless a change in the reporting
method is required under federal law;
         (b)   The election continues to be binding for each subsequent five-
year period unless the taxpayer elects to discontinue filing consolidated
municipal income tax returns under division (B)(2) of this section; or
         (c)   A taxpayer receives permission from the Tax Administrator. The
Tax Administrator shall approve such a request for good cause shown.
      (2)   An election to discontinue filing consolidated municipal income tax
returns under this section must be made in the first year following the last
year of a five-year consolidated municipal income tax return election period in
effect under division (B)(1) of this section. The election to discontinue
filing a consolidated municipal income tax return is binding for a five-year
period beginning with the first taxable year of the election.
      (3)   An election made under division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of this section is
binding on all members of the affiliated group of corporations subject to a
municipal income tax.
      (4)   When a taxpayer makes the election allowed under R.C. § 718.80, a
valid election made by a taxpayer under division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of this
section is binding upon the Tax Commissioner for the remainder of the five-year
period.
      (5)   When an election is made under R.C. § 718.80 is terminated, a valid
election made under R.C. § 718.86 is binding upon the Tax Administrator for the
remainder of the five-year period.
   (C)   A taxpayer that is a member of an affiliated group of corporations
that filed a consolidated federal income tax return for a taxable year shall
file a consolidated municipal income tax return for that taxable year if the
Tax Administrator determines, by a preponderance of the evidence, that
intercompany transactions have not been conducted at arm's length and that
there has been a distortive shifting of income or expenses with regard to
allocation of net profits to the municipal corporation. A taxpayer that is
required to file a consolidated municipal income tax return for a taxable year
shall file a consolidated municipal income tax return for all subsequent
taxable years unless the taxpayer requests and receives written permission from
the Tax Administrator to file a separate return or a taxpayer has experienced a
change in circumstances.
   (D)   A taxpayer shall prepare a consolidated municipal income tax return in
the same manner as is required under the United States Department of Treasury
regulations that prescribe procedures for the preparation of the consolidated
federal income tax return required to be filed by the common parent of the
affiliated group of which the taxpayer is a member.
   (E)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (E)(2), (E)(3), and
(E)(4) of this section, corporations that file a consolidated municipal income
tax return shall compute adjusted federal taxable income, as defined in §
37.03(C)(1), by substituting "consolidated federal taxable income" for "federal
taxable income" wherever "federal taxable income" appears in that division and
by substituting "an affiliated group of corporation's" for "a C corporation's"
wherever "a C corporation's" appears in that division.
      (2)   No corporation filing a consolidated municipal income tax return
shall make any adjustment otherwise required under §
37.03(C)(1) to the extent that the item of income or deduction otherwise
subject to the adjustment has been eliminated or consolidated in the
computation of consolidated federal taxable income.
      (3)   If the net profit or loss of a pass-through entity having at least
eighty per cent of the value of its ownership interest owned or controlled,
directly or indirectly, by an affiliated group of corporations is included in
that affiliated group's consolidated federal taxable income for a taxable year,
the corporation filing a consolidated municipal income tax return shall do one
of the following with respect to that pass-through entity's net profit or loss
for that taxable year:
         (a)   Exclude the pass-through entity's net profit or loss from the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purpose of making the computations required in §
37.062, exclude the property, payroll, and gross receipts of the pass-through
entity in the computation of the affiliated group's net profit sitused to a
municipal corporation, if the entity's net profit or loss is so excluded, the
entity shall be subject to taxation as a separate taxpayer on the basis of the
entity's net profits that would otherwise be included in the consolidated
federal taxable income of the affiliated group.
         (b)   Include the pass-through entity's net profit or loss in the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purpose of making the computations required in §
37.062, include the property, payroll, and gross receipts of the pass-through
entity in the computation of the affiliated group's net profit sitused to a
municipal corporation, if the entity's net profit or loss is so included, the
entity shall not be subject to taxation as a separate taxpayer on the basis of
the entity's net profits that are included in the consolidated federal taxable
income of the affiliated group.
      (4)   If the net profit or loss of a pass-through entity having less than
80% of the value of its ownership interest owned or controlled, directly or
indirectly, by an affiliated group of corporations is included in that
affiliated group's consolidated federal taxable income for a taxable year, all
of the following shall apply:
         (a)   The corporation filing the consolidated municipal income tax
return shall exclude the pass-through entity's net profit or loss from the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purposes of making the computations required in §
37.062, exclude the property, payroll, and gross receipts of the pass-through
entity in the computation of the affiliated group's net profit sitused to a
municipal corporation;
         (b)   The pass-through entity shall be subject to municipal income
taxation as a separate taxpayer in accordance with this chapter on the basis of
the entity's net profits that would otherwise be included in the consolidated
federal taxable income of the affiliated group.
   (F)   Corporations filing a consolidated municipal income tax return shall
make the computations required under §
37.062 by substituting "consolidated federal taxable income attributable to"
for "net profit from" wherever "net profit from" appears in that section and by
substituting "affiliated group of corporations" for "taxpayer" wherever
"taxpayer" appears in that section.
   (G)   Each corporation filing a consolidated municipal income tax return is
jointly and severally liable for any tax, interest, penalties, fines, charges,
or other amounts imposed by a municipal corporation in accordance with this
chapter on the corporation, an affiliated group of which, the corporation is a
member for any portion of the taxable year, or any one or more members of such
an affiliated group.
   (H)   Corporations and their affiliates that made an election or entered
into an agreement with a municipal corporation before January 1, 2016, to file
a consolidated or combined tax return with such municipal corporation may
continue to file consolidated or combined tax returns in accordance with such
election or agreement for taxable years beginning on and after January 1, 2016.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 1-17-18; Am. Ord. 2018-96, passed 12-19-18)
Statutory reference:
   Consolidated municipal tax return, see R.C. § 718.06
§ 37.064 TAX CREDIT FOR BUSINESSES THAT FOSTER NEW JOBS IN OHIO.
   The municipality, by ordinance, may grant a refundable or nonrefundable
credit against its tax on income to a taxpayer to foster job creation in the
municipality. If a credit is granted under this section, it shall be measured
as a percentage of the new income tax revenue the municipality derives from new
employees of the taxpayer and shall be for a term not exceeding 15 years.
Before the municipality passes a chapter granting a credit, the municipality
and the taxpayer shall enter into an agreement specifying all the conditions of
the credit.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 1-17-18)
Statutory reference:
   Fostering new jobs; tax credits, see R.C. § 718.15
§ 37.065 TAX CREDITS TO FOSTER JOB RETENTION.
   The municipality, by ordinance, may grant a refundable or nonrefundable
credit against its tax on income to a taxpayer for the purpose of fostering job
retention in the municipality. If a credit is granted under this section, it
shall be measured as a percentage of the income tax revenue the municipality
derives from the retained employees of the taxpayer, and shall be for a term
not exceeding 15 years. Before the municipality passes a chapter allowing such
a credit the municipality and the taxpayer shall enter into an agreement
specifying all the conditions of the credit.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 1-17-18)
Statutory reference:
   Fostering job retention; tax credits, see R.C. 718.151
§ 37.066 ELECTION TO BE SUBJECT TO R.C. §§ 718.80 TO 718.95.
   (A)   The village hereby adopts and incorporates herein by reference R.C. §§
718.80 to 718.95 for tax years beginning on or after January 1, 2018.
   (B)   A taxpayer, as defined in division (C) of this section, may elect to
be subject to R.C. §§ 718.80 to 718.95 in lieu of the provisions of this
chapter.
   (C)   TAXPAYER has the same meaning as in R.C. § 718.01, except that
"taxpayer" does not include natural persons or entities subject to the tax
imposed under R.C. Chapter 5745. "Taxpayer" may include receivers, assignees,
or trustees in bankruptcy when such persons are required to assume the role of
a taxpayer.
(Ord. 2018-96, passed 12-19-18)
§ 37.07 DECLARATION OF ESTIMATED TAX.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   ESTIMATED TAXES means the amount that the taxpayer reasonably
estimates to be the taxpayer's tax liability for a municipal corporation's
income tax for the current taxable year.
      (2)   TAX LIABILITY means the total taxes due to a municipal corporation
for the taxable year, after allowing any credit to which the taxpayer is
entitled, and after applying any estimated tax payment, withholding payment, or
credit from another taxable year.
   (B)   (1)   Every taxpayer shall make a declaration of estimated taxes for
the current taxable year, on the form prescribed by the Tax Administrator, if
the amount payable as estimated taxes is at least $200. For the purposes of
this section:
         (a)   Taxes withheld from qualifying wages shall be considered as paid
to the municipal corporation for which the taxes were withheld in equal amounts
on each payment date. If the taxpayer establishes the dates on which all
amounts were actually withheld, the amounts withheld shall be considered as
paid on the dates on which the amounts were actually withheld.
         (b)   An overpayment of tax applied as a credit to a subsequent
taxable year is deemed to be paid on the date of the postmark stamped on the
cover in which the payment is mailed or, if the payment is made by electronic
funds transfer, the date the payment is submitted. As used in this division,
DATE OF THE POSTMARK means, in the event there is more than one date on the
cover, the earliest date imprinted on the cover by the postal service.
         (c)   A taxpayer having a taxable year of less than 12 months shall
make a declaration under rules prescribed by the Tax Administrator.
         (d)   Taxes withheld by a casino operator or by a lottery sales agent
under R.C. § 718.031 are deemed to be paid to the municipal corporation for
which the taxes were withheld on the date the taxes are withheld from the
taxpayer's winnings.
      (2)   Taxpayers filing joint returns shall file joint declarations of
estimated taxes.
      (3)   The declaration of estimated taxes shall be filed on or before the
date prescribed for the filing of municipal income tax returns under §
37.091(G) or on or before the 15th day of the fourth month of the first taxable
year after the taxpayer becomes subject to tax for the first time.
      (4)   Taxpayers reporting on a fiscal year basis shall file a declaration
on or before the 15th day of the fourth month after the beginning of each
fiscal year or period.
      (5)   The original declaration or any subsequent amendment may be
increased or decreased on or before any subsequent quarterly payment day as
provided in this section.
   (C)   (1)   The required portion of the tax liability for the taxable year
that shall be paid through estimated taxes made payable to the municipality or
Tax Administrator, including the application of tax refunds to estimated taxes
and withholding on or before the applicable payment date, shall be as follows:
         (a)   On or before the 15th day of the fourth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, 22.5% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
         (b)   On or before the 15th day of the sixth month after the beginning
of the taxable year, 45% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
         (c)   On or before the 15th day of the ninth month after the beginning
of the taxable year, 67.5% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
         (d)   For an individual, on or before the 15th day of the first month
of the following taxable year, 90% of the tax liability for the taxable year.
For a person other than an individual, on or before the 15th day of the 12th
month of the taxable year, 90% of the tax liability for the taxable year.
      (2)   A taxpayer may amend a declaration under rules prescribed by the
Tax Administrator. When an amended declaration has been filed, the unpaid
balance shown due on the amended declaration shall be paid in equal
installments on or before the remaining payment dates. The amended declaration
must be filed on the next applicable due date as outlined in division (C)(1)(a)
through (d) of this section.
      (3)   On or before the 15th day of the fourth month of the year following
that for which the declaration or amended declaration was filed, an annual
return shall be filed and any balance which may be due shall be paid with the
return in accordance with §
37.091.
         (a)   For taxpayers who are individuals, or who are not individuals
and are reporting and filing on a calendar year basis, the annual tax return is
due on the same date as the filing of the federal tax return, unless extended
pursuant to division (G) of R.C. § 5747.08.
         (b)   For taxpayers who are not individuals, and are reporting and
filing on a fiscal year basis or any period other than a calendar year, the
annual return is due on the 15th day of the fourth month following the end of
the taxable year or period.
      (4)   An amended declaration is required when ever the taxpayer's
estimated tax liability changes during the taxable year. A change in estimated
tax liability may either increase or decrease the estimated tax liability for
the taxable year.
   (D)   (1)   In the case of any underpayment of any portion of a tax
liability, penalty and interest may be imposed pursuant to §
37.10 upon the amount of underpayment for the period of underpayment, unless
the underpayment is due to reasonable cause as described in division (E) of
this section. The amount of the underpayment shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   For the first payment of estimated taxes each year, 22.5% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment;
         (b)   For the second payment of estimated taxes each year, 45% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment;
         (c)   For the third payment of estimated taxes each year, 67.5% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment;
         (d)   For the fourth payment of estimated taxes each year, 90% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment.
      (2)   The period of the underpayment shall run from the day the estimated
payment was required to be made to the date on which the payment is made. For
purposes of this section, a payment of estimated taxes on or before any payment
date shall be considered a payment of any previous underpayment only to the
extent the payment of estimated taxes exceeds the amount of the payment
presently required to be paid to avoid any penalty.
   (E)   An underpayment of any portion of tax liability determined under
division (D) of this section shall be due to reasonable cause and the penalty
imposed by this section shall not be added to the taxes for the taxable year if
any of the following apply:
      (1)   The amount of estimated taxes that were paid equals at least 90% of
the tax liability for the current taxable year, determined by annualizing the
income received during the year up to the end of the month immediately
preceding the month in which the payment is due.
      (2)   The amount of estimated taxes that were paid equals at least 100%
of the tax liability shown on the return of the taxpayer for the preceding
taxable year, provided that the immediately preceding taxable year reflected a
period of 12 months and the taxpayer filed a return with the municipal
corporation under §
37.091 for that year.
      (3)   The taxpayer is an individual who resides in the municipality but
was not domiciled there on the first day of January of the calendar year that
includes the first day of the taxable year.
   (F)   A Tax Administrator may waive the requirement for filing a declaration
of estimated taxes for any class of taxpayers after finding that the waiver is
reasonable and proper in view of administrative costs and other factors.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 1-17-18)
Statutory reference:
   Estimated taxes, see R.C. § 718.08
§ 37.08 CREDIT FOR TAX PAID
§ 37.081 CREDIT FOR TAX PAID TO OTHER MUNICIPALITIES OR JOINT ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT DISTRICTS OR ZONES.
   (A)   When taxable income of a resident of the village is subject to a
municipal income tax in another municipality or in a Joint Economic Development
District created pursuant to R.C. § 715.70, as such section exists or may
hereinafter be amended, on the same income taxable under this section, such
resident shall be allowed a credit of the amount of income tax paid on such
taxable income to such other municipality, equal to 100% of the amount obtained
by multiplying the lower of the tax rate of such other municipality or of the
village by the taxable income earned in or attributable to the municipality of
employment or business activity. For the purposes of this section, taxable
income includes the distributive share of net profits of a resident partner or
owner of an unincorporated business entity.
   (B)   A claim for credit or refund under this section shall be made in such
manner as the Administrator may by regulation provide. If a village resident
fails, neglects or refuses to file an annual return or declaration on the form
prescribed by the Administrator, he or she shall not be entitled to such credit
or refund and shall be considered in violation of this chapter for failure to
file a return.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 1-17-18)
§ 37.082 REFUNDABLE CREDIT FOR QUALIFYING LOSS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   NONQUALIFIED DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN means a compensation plan
described in section 3121(v)(2)(C) of the Internal Revenue Code.
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (A)(2)(b) of this section,
QUALIFYING LOSS means the excess, if any, of the total amount of compensation
the payment of which is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified deferred
compensation plan over the total amount of income the taxpayer has recognized
for federal income tax purposes for all taxable years on a cumulative basis as
compensation with respect to the taxpayer's receipt of money and property
attributable to distributions in connection with the nonqualified deferred
compensation plan.
         (b)   If, for one or more taxable years, the taxpayer has not paid to
one or more municipal corporations income tax imposed on the entire amount of
compensation the payment of which is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified
deferred compensation plan, then the "qualifying loss" is the product of the
amount resulting from the calculation described in division (A)(2)(a) of this
section computed without regard to division (A)(2)(b) of this section and a
fraction the numerator of which is the portion of such compensation on which
the taxpayer has paid income tax to one or more municipal corporations and the
denominator of which is the total amount of compensation the payment of which
is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
         (c)   With respect to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan, the
taxpayer sustains a qualifying loss only in the taxable year in which the
taxpayer receives the final distribution of money and property pursuant to that
nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
      (3)   QUALIFYING TAX RATE means the applicable tax rate for the taxable
year for which the taxpayer paid income tax to a municipal corporation with
respect to any portion of the total amount of compensation the payment of which
is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan. If different
tax rates applied for different taxable years, then the "qualifying tax rate"
is a weighted average of those different tax rates. The weighted average shall
be based upon the tax paid to the municipal corporation each year with respect
to the nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, a refundable
credit shall be allowed against the income tax imposed by a municipal
corporation for each qualifying loss sustained by a taxpayer during the taxable
year. The amount of the credit shall be equal to the product of the qualifying
loss and the qualifying tax rate.
      (2)   A taxpayer shall claim the credit allowed under this section from
each municipal corporation to which the taxpayer paid municipal income tax with
respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation plan in one or more taxable
years.
      (3)   If a taxpayer has paid tax to more than one municipal corporation
with respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation plan, the amount of the
credit that a taxpayer may claim from each municipal corporation shall be
calculated on the basis of each municipal corporation's proportionate share of
the total municipal corporation income tax paid by the taxpayer to all
municipal corporations with respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation
plan.
      (4)   In no case shall the amount of the credit allowed under this
section exceed the cumulative income tax that a taxpayer has paid to a
municipal corporation for all taxable years with respect to the nonqualified
deferred compensation plan.
   (C)   (1)   For purposes of this section, municipal corporation income tax
that has been withheld with respect to a nonqualified deferred compensation
plan shall be considered to have been paid by the taxpayer with respect to the
nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
      (2)   Any municipal income tax that has been refunded or otherwise
credited for the benefit of the taxpayer with respect to a nonqualified
deferred compensation plan shall not be considered to have been paid to the
municipal corporation by the taxpayer.
   (D)   The credit allowed under this section is allowed only to the extent
the taxpayer's qualifying loss is attributable to:
      (1)   The insolvency or bankruptcy of the employer who had established
the nonqualified deferred compensation plan; or
      (2)   The employee's failure or inability to satisfy all of the
employer's terms and conditions necessary to receive the nonqualified deferred
compensation.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 1-17-18)
Statutory reference:
   Qualifying loss; refundable credit, see R.C. § 718.021
§ 37.083 CREDIT FOR PERSON WORKING IN JOINT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT OR
ZONE.
   A municipality shall grant a credit against its tax on income to a resident
of the municipality who works in a joint economic development zone created
under R.C. § 715.691 or a joint economic development district created under
R.C. § 715.70, 715.71, or 715.72 to the same extent that it grants a credit
against its tax on income to its residents who are employed in another
municipal corporation, pursuant to §
37.081.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 1-17-18)
Statutory reference:
   Worker in joint economic development zone or district, see R.C. § 718.16
§ 37.084 CREDIT FOR TAX BEYOND STATUTE FOR OBTAINING REFUND.
   (A)   Income tax that has been deposited or paid to the municipality, but
should have been deposited or paid to another municipal corporation, is
allowable by the municipality as a refund, but is subject to the three-year
limitation on refunds, as provided in §
37.096.
   (B)   Income tax that should have been deposited or paid to the
municipality, but was deposited or paid to another municipal corporation, shall
be subject to collection and recovery by the municipality. To the extent a
refund of such tax or withholding is barred by the limitation on refunds as
provided in §
37.096, the municipality will allow a non-refundable credit equal to the tax or
withholding paid to the other municipality against the income tax the
municipality claims is due. If the municipality's tax rate is higher, the tax
representing the net difference of the tax rates is also subject to collection
by the municipality, along with any penalty and interest accruing during the
period of nonpayment.
   (C)   No carryforward of credit will be permitted when the overpayment is
beyond the three-year limitation for refunding of same as provided in §
37.096.
   (D)   Nothing in this section requires a municipality to allow credit for
tax paid to another municipal corporation if the municipality has reduced
credit for tax paid to another municipal corporation. Section
37.081 regarding any limitation on credit shall prevail.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 1-17-18)
Statutory reference:
   Second municipality imposing tax after time period for refund, see R.C. §
718.121
§ 37.085 TAX CREDIT FOR CERTAIN FULL-TIME STUDENTS IN POST-SECONDARY EDUCATION
PROGRAMS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   FULL TIME ENROLLMENT. That period established by the qualifying
post secondary institution as full time status for students or trainees in
attendance.
      (2)   QUALIFYING POST SECONDARY INSTITUTION. A college, university,
technical school, vocational school or training program whose students or
trainees are eligible to receive grants and loans through programs established
by the United States Department of Education.
   (B)   There is hereby created a tax credit not to exceed $75 per year for
taxpayers who are in full time enrollment for at least five calendar months of
the year in which the credit is requested at a qualifying post secondary
institution. Taxpayers applying for the tax credit shall be required to
complete and sign a disclosure and authorization form which may be obtained
from the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   The tax credit created hereunder shall become effective for calendar
year 1993 and each year thereafter.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 1-17-18)
§ 37.09 ANNUAL RETURN
§ 37.091 RETURN AND PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   (1)   An annual return with respect to the income tax levied on
municipal taxable income by the municipality shall be completed and filed by
every taxpayer for any taxable year for which the taxpayer is subject to the
tax, regardless of whether or not income tax is due.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator shall accept on behalf of all nonresident
individual taxpayers a return filed by an employer, agent of an employer, or
other payer located in the municipality under §
37.051(C) when the nonresident individual taxpayer's sole income subject to the
tax is the qualifying wages reported by the employer, agent of an employer, or
other payer, and no additional tax is due to the municipality.
      (3)   All resident individual taxpayers, 18 years of age and older, shall
file an annual municipal income tax return with the municipality, regardless of
income or liability.
   (B)   If an individual is deceased, any return or notice required of that
individual shall be completed and filed by that decedent's executor,
administrator, or other person charged with the property of that decedent.
   (C)   If an individual is unable to complete and file a return or notice
required by the municipality in accordance with this chapter, the return or
notice required of that individual shall be completed and filed by the
individual's duly authorized agent, guardian, conservator, fiduciary, or other
person charged with the care of the person or property of that individual. Such
duly authorized agent, guardian, conservator, fiduciary, or other person
charged with the care of the person or property of that individual shall
provide, with the filing of the return, appropriate documentation to support
that they are authorized to file a return or notice on behalf of the taxpayer.
This notice shall include any legally binding authorizations, and contact
information including name, address, and phone number of the duly authorized
agent, guardian, conservator, fiduciary, or other person.
   (D)   Returns or notices required of an estate or a trust shall be completed
and filed by the fiduciary of the estate or trust. Such fiduciary shall
provide, with the filing of the return, appropriate documentation to support
that they are authorized to file a return or notice on behalf of the taxpayer.
This notice shall include any legally binding authorizations, and contact
information including name, address, and phone number of the fiduciary.
   (E)   No municipal corporation shall deny spouses the ability to file a
joint return.
   (F)   (1)   Each return required to be filed under this section shall
contain the signature of the taxpayer or the taxpayer's duly authorized agent
and of the person who prepared the return for the taxpayer, and shall include
the taxpayer's social security number or taxpayer identification number. Each
return shall be verified by a declaration under penalty of perjury.
      (2)   A taxpayer who is an individual is required to include, with each
annual return, amended return, or request for refund required under this
section, copies of only the following documents: all of the taxpayer's Internal
Revenue Service form W-2, "Wage and Tax Statements," including all information
reported on the taxpayer's federal W-2, as well as taxable wages reported or
withheld for any municipal corporation; the taxpayer's Internal Revenue Service
form 1040 or in the case of a return or request required by a qualified
municipal corporation, Ohio form IT-1040; and, with respect to an amended tax
return or refund request, any other documentation necessary to support the
refund request or the adjustments made in the amended return. An individual
taxpayer who files the annual return required by this section electronically is
not required to provide paper copies of any of the foregoing to the Tax
Administrator unless the Tax Administrator requests such copies after the
return has been filed.
      (3)   A taxpayer that is not an individual is required to include, with
each annual net profit return, amended net profit return, or request for refund
required under this section, copies of only the following documents: the
taxpayer's Internal Revenue Service form 1041, form 1065, form 1120, form 1120-
REIT, form 1120F, or form 1120S, and, with respect to an amended tax return or
refund request, any other documentation necessary to support the refund request
or the adjustments made in the amended return.
      (4)   A taxpayer that is not an individual and that files an annual net
profit return electronically through the Ohio Business Gateway or in some other
manner shall either mail the documents required under this division to the Tax
Administrator at the time of filing or, if electronic submission is available,
submit the documents electronically through the Ohio Business Gateway or a
portal provided by municipality. The Department of Taxation shall publish a
method of electronically submitting the documents required under this division
through the Ohio Business Gateway on or before January 1, 2016. The Department
shall transmit all documents submitted electronically under this division to
the appropriate tax administrator.
      (5)   After a taxpayer files a tax return, the Tax Administrator shall
request, and the taxpayer shall provide, any information, statements, or
documents required by the municipality to determine and verify the taxpayer's
municipal income tax liability. The requirements imposed under division (F) of
this section apply regardless of whether the taxpayer files on a generic form
or on a form prescribed by the Tax Administrator.
      (6)   Any other documentation, including schedules, other municipal
income tax returns, or other supporting documentation necessary to verify
credits, income, losses, or other pertinent factors on the return shall also be
included to avoid delay in processing, or disallowance by the Tax Administrator
of undocumented credits or losses.
   (G)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, each
individual income tax return required to be filed under this section shall be
completed and filed as required by the Tax Administrator on or before the date
prescribed for the filing of state individual income, tax returns under
division (G) of R.C. § 5747.08. The taxpayer shall complete and file the return
or notice on forms prescribed by the Tax Administrator or on generic forms,
together with remittance made payable to the municipality or Tax Administrator.
No remittance is required if the net amount due is $10 or less.
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, each annual net
profit income tax return required to be filed under this section by a taxpayer
that is not an individual shall be completed and filed as required by the Tax
Administrator on or before the 15th day of the fourth month following the end
of the taxpayer's taxable year or period. The taxpayer shall complete and file
the return or notice on forms prescribed by the Tax Administrator or on generic
forms, together with remittance made payable to the municipality or Tax
Administrator. No remittance is required if the net amount due is $10 or less.
         (c)   In the case of individual income tax return required to be filed
by an individual, and net profit income tax return required to be filed by a
taxpayer who is not an individual, no remittance is required if the amount
shown to be due is $10 or less.
      (2)   If the Tax Administrator considers it necessary in order to ensure
the payment of the tax imposed by the municipality in accordance with this
chapter, the Tax Administrator may require taxpayers to file returns and make
payments otherwise than as provided in this section, including taxpayers not
otherwise required to file annual returns.
      (3)   With respect to taxpayers to whom §
37.092 applies, to the extent that any provision in this division conflicts
with any provision in §
37.092, the provision in §
37.092 prevails.
   (H)   (1)   For taxable years beginning after 2015, the municipality shall
not require a taxpayer to remit tax with respect to net profits if the amount
due is $10 or less.
      (2)   Any taxpayer not required to remit tax to the municipality for a
taxable year pursuant to division (H)(1) of this section shall file with the
municipality an annual net profit return under division (F)(3) and (F)(4) of
this section unless the provisions of division (H)(3) of this section apply.
      (3)   (a)   A person may notify the Tax Administrator that the person
does not expect to be a taxpayer subject to municipal income tax ordinance for
a taxable year if both the following apply:
            1.   The person was required to file a tax return with the
municipality for the immediately preceding taxable year because the person
performed services at a worksite location within the municipality.
            2.   The person no longer provides services in the municipality and
does not expect to be subject to the municipal income tax for the taxable year.
         (b)   The person shall provide the notice in a signed affidavit that
briefly explains the person's circumstances, including the location of the
previous worksite location and the last date on which the person performed
services or made any sales within the municipality. The affidavit shall also
include the following statement: "The affiant has no plans to perform any
services within the Municipality, make any sales in the Municipality, or
otherwise become subject to the tax levied by the Municipality during the
taxable year. If the affiant does become subject to the tax levied by the
Municipality for the taxable year, the affiant agrees to be considered a
taxpayer and to properly comply as a taxpayer with the Municipality income tax
ordinance and rules and regulations." The person shall sign the affidavit under
penalty of perjury.
         (c)   If a person submits an affidavit described in division (H)(3)(b)
of this section the Tax Administrator shall not require the person to file a
tax return for the taxable year unless the Tax Administrator possesses
information that conflicts with the affidavit or if the circumstances described
in the affidavit change.
         (d)   Nothing in division (H)(3) of this section prohibits the Tax
Administrator from performing an audit of the person.
   (I)   This division shall not apply to payments required to be made under §
37.051(B)(1)(b).
      (1)   If any report, claim, statement, or other document required to be
filed, or any payment required to be made, within a prescribed period or on or
before a prescribed date under this chapter is delivered after that period or
that to the Tax Administrator or other municipal official with which the
report, claim, statement, or other document is required to be filed, or to
which the payment is required to be made, the date of the postmark stamped on
the cover in which the report, claim, statement, or other document, or payment
is mailed shall be deemed to be the date of delivery or the date of payment.
"The date of postmark" means, in the event there is more than one date on the
cover, the earliest date imprinted on the cover by the postal service.
      (2)   If a payment under this chapter is made by electronic funds
transfer, the payment shall be considered to be made on the date of the
timestamp assigned by the first electronic system receiving that payment.
   (J)   The amounts withheld for the municipality by an employer, the agent of
an employer, or other payer shall be allowed to the recipient of the
compensation as credits against payment of the tax imposed on the recipient
unless the amounts withheld were not, remitted to the municipality and the
recipient colluded with the employer, agent, or other payer in connection with
the failure to remit the amounts withheld.
   (K)   Each return required by the municipality to be filed in accordance
with this section shall include a box that the taxpayer may check to authorize
another person, including a tax return preparer who prepared the return, to
communicate with the Tax Administrator about matters pertaining to the return.
The return or instructions accompanying the return shall indicate that by
checking the box the taxpayer authorizes the Tax Administrator to contact the
preparer or other person concerning questions that arise during the examination
or other review of the return and authorizes the preparer or other person only
to provide the Tax Administrator with information that is missing from the
return, to contact the Tax Administrator for information about the examination
or other review of the return or the status of the taxpayer's refund or
payments, and to respond to notices about mathematical errors, offsets, or
return preparation that the taxpayer has received from the Tax Administrator
and has shown to the preparer or other person. Authorization by the taxpayer of
another person to communicate with the Tax Administrator about matters
pertaining to the return does not preclude the Tax Administrator from
contacting the taxpayer regarding such matters.
   (L)   The Tax Administrator of the municipality shall accept for filing a
generic form of any income tax return, report, or document required by the
municipality in accordance with this chapter, provided that the generic form,
once completed and filed, contains all of the information required by chapters,
resolutions, or rules adopted by the municipality or Tax Administrator, and
provided that the taxpayer or tax return preparer filing the generic form
otherwise complies with the provisions of this chapter and of the
municipality's chapter or resolution governing the filing of returns, reports,
or documents.
   (M)   When income tax returns, reports, or other documents require the
signature of a tax return preparer, the Tax Administrator shall accept a
facsimile of such a signature in lieu of a manual signature.
   (N)   (1)   As used in this division, "worksite location" has the same
meaning as in §
37.052.
      (2)   A person may notify a tax administrator that the person does not
expect to be a taxpayer with respect to the municipal corporation for a taxable
year if both of the following conditions apply:
         (a)   The person was required to file a tax return with the municipal
corporation for the immediately preceding taxable year because the person
performed services at a worksite location within the municipal corporation, and
the person has filed all appropriate and required returns and remitted all
applicable income tax and withholding payments as provided by this chapter. The
Tax Administrator is not required to accept an affidavit from a taxpayer who
has not complied with the provisions of this chapter.
         (b)   The person no longer provides services in the municipal
corporation, and does not expect to be subject to the municipal corporation's
income tax for the taxable year.
            The person shall provide the notice in a signed affidavit that
briefly explains the person's circumstances, including the location of the
previous worksite location and the last date on which the person performed
services or made any sales within the municipal corporation. The affidavit also
shall include the following statement: "The affiant has no plans to perform any
services within the municipal corporation, make any sales in the municipal
corporation, or otherwise become subject to the tax levied by the municipal
corporation during the taxable year. If the affiant does become subject to the
tax levied by the municipal corporation for the taxable year, the affiant
agrees to be considered a taxpayer and to properly register as a taxpayer with
the municipal corporation, if such a registration is required by the municipal
corporation's resolutions, Chapters, or rules." The person shall sign the
affidavit under penalty of perjury.
         (c)   If a person submits an affidavit described in division (N)(2) of
this section, the Tax Administrator shall not require the person to file any
tax return for the taxable year unless the Tax Administrator possesses
information that conflicts with the affidavit or if the circumstances described
in the affidavit change, or the taxpayer has engaged in activity which results
in work being performed, services provided, sales made, or other activity that
results in municipal taxable income reportable to the municipality in the
taxable year. It shall be the responsibility of the taxpayer to comply with the
provisions of this chapter relating to the reporting and filing of municipal
taxable income on an annual municipal income tax return, even if an affidavit
has been filed with the Tax Administrator for the taxable year. Nothing in
division (N) of this section prohibits the Tax Administrator from performing an
audit of the person.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 1-17-18)
Statutory reference:
   Annual return; filing; extensions, R.C. § 718.05
§ 37.092 RETURN AND PAYMENT OF TAX; INDIVIDUALS SERVING IN COMBAT ZONE.
   (A)   Each member of the national guard of any state and each member of a
reserve component of the armed forces of the United States called to active
duty pursuant to an executive order issued by the President of the United
States or an act of the Congress of the United States, and each civilian
serving as support personnel in a combat zone or contingency operation in
support of the armed forces, may apply to the Tax Administrator of the
municipality for both an extension of time for filing of the return and an
extension of time for payment of taxes required by the municipality in
accordance with this chapter during the period of the member's or civilian's
duty service and for 180 days thereafter. The application shall be filed on or
before the 180th day after the member's or civilian's duty terminates. An
applicant shall provide such evidence as the Tax Administrator considers
necessary, to demonstrate eligibility for the extension.
   (B)   (1)   If the Tax Administrator ascertains that an applicant is
qualified for an extension under this section, the Tax Administrator shall
enter into a contract with the applicant for the payment of the tax in
installments that begin on the 181st day after the applicant's active duty or
service terminates. Except as provided in division (B)(3) of this section, the
Tax Administrator may prescribe such contract terms as the Tax Administrator
considers appropriate.
      (2)   If the Tax Administrator ascertains that an applicant is qualified
for an extension under this section, the applicant shall neither be required to
file any return, report, or other tax document nor be required to pay any tax
otherwise due to the municipality before the 181st day after the applicant's
active duty or service terminates.
      (3)   Taxes paid pursuant to a contract entered into under division (B)
(1) of this section are not delinquent. The Tax Administrator shall not require
any payments of penalties or interest in connection with those taxes for the
extension period.
   (C)   (1)   Nothing in this division denies to any person described in this
division the application of divisions (A) and (B) of this section.
      (2)   (a)   A qualifying taxpayer who is eligible for an extension under
the Internal Revenue Code shall receive both an extension of time in which to
file any return, report, or other tax document and an extension of time in
which to make any payment of taxes required by the municipality in accordance
with this chapter. The length of any extension granted under division (C)(2)(a)
of this section shall be equal to the length of the corresponding extension
that the taxpayer receives under the Internal Revenue Code. As used in this
section, "qualifying taxpayer" means a member of the national guard or a member
of a reserve component of the armed forces of the United States called to
active duty pursuant to either an executive order issued by the President of
the United States or an act of the Congress of the United States, or a civilian
serving as support personnel in a combat zone or contingency operation in
support of the armed forces.
         (b)   Taxes the payment of which is extended in accordance with
division (C)(2)(a) of this section are not delinquent during the extension
period. Such taxes become delinquent on the first day after the expiration of
the extension period if the taxes are not paid prior to that date. The Tax
Administrator shall not require any payment of penalties or interest in
connection with those taxes for the extension period. The Tax Administrator
shall not include any period of extension granted under division (C)(2)(a) of
this section in calculating the penalty or interest due on any unpaid tax.
   (D)   For each taxable year to which division (A), (B), or (C) of this
section applies to a taxpayer, the provisions of divisions (B)(2) and (B)(3) or
(C) of this section, as applicable, apply to the spouse of that taxpayer if the
filing status of the spouse and the taxpayer is married filing jointly for that
year.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 1-17-18)
Statutory reference:
   Filing extension for certain armed forces service, see R.C. § 718.052
§ 37.093 USE OF OHIO BUSINESS GATEWAY; TYPES OF FILINGS AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   Any taxpayer subject to municipal income taxation with respect to the
taxpayer's net profit from a business or profession may file any municipal
income tax return or, estimated municipal income tax return, or extension for
filing a municipal income tax return, and may make payment of amounts shown to
be due on such returns, by using the Ohio Business Gateway.
   (B)   Any employer, agent of an employer, or other payer may report the
amount of municipal income tax withheld from qualifying wages, and may make
remittance of such amounts, by using the Ohio Business Gateway.
   (C)   Nothing in this section affects the due dates for filing employer
withholding tax returns or deposit of any required tax.
   (D)   The use of the Ohio Business Gateway by municipal corporations,
taxpayers, or other persons does not affect the legal rights of municipalities
or taxpayers as otherwise permitted by law. The State of Ohio shall not be a
party to the administration of municipal income taxes or to an appeal of a
municipal income tax matter, except as otherwise specifically provided by law.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as limiting or removing the
authority of any municipal corporation to administer, audit, and enforce the
provisions of its municipal income tax.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 1-17-18)
Statutory reference:
   Use of Ohio Business Gateway, see R.C. § 718.051
§ 37.094 EXTENSION OF TIME TO FILE.
   (A)   Any taxpayer that has duly requested an automatic six-month extension
for filing the taxpayer's federal income tax return shall automatically receive
an extension for the filing of a municipal income tax return. The extended due
date of the municipal income tax return shall be the 15th day of the tenth
month after the last day of the taxable year to which the return relates. For
tax years ending on or after January 1, 2023, the extended due date of the
municipality's income tax return for a taxpayer that is not an individual shall
be the 15th day of the eleventh month after the last day of the taxable year to
which the return relates.
   (B)   Any taxpayer that qualifies for an automatic federal extension for a
period other than six-months for filing the taxpayer's federal income tax
return shall automatically receive an extension for the filing of a municipal
income tax return. The extended due date of the municipal income tax return
shall be the same as that of the extended federal income tax return.
   (C)   A taxpayer that has not requested or received a six-month extension
for filing the taxpayer's federal income tax return may request that the Tax
Administrator grant the taxpayer a six-month extension of the date for filing
the taxpayer's municipal income tax return. If the request is received by the
Tax Administrator on or before the date the municipal income tax return is due,
the Tax Administrator shall grant the taxpayer's requested extension.
   (D)   An extension of time to file under this chapter is not an extension of
the time to pay any tax due unless the Tax Administrator grants an extension of
that date.
   (E)   A copy of the federal extension request shall be included with the
filing of the municipal's income tax return.
   (F)   A taxpayer that has not requested or received a six-month extension
for filing the taxpayer's federal income tax return may submit a written
request that the Tax Administrator grant the taxpayer a six-month extension of
the date for filing the taxpayer's municipal income tax return. If the request
is received by the Tax Administrator on or before the date the municipal income
tax return is due, the Tax Administrator shall grant the taxpayer's requested
extension.
   (G)   If the State Tax Commissioner extends for all taxpayers the date for
filing state income tax returns under division (G) of R.C § 5747.08, a taxpayer
shall automatically receive an extension for the filing of a municipal income
tax return. The extended due date of the municipal income tax return shall be
the same as the extended due date of the state income tax return.
   (H)   If a taxpayer receives an extension for the filing of a municipal
income tax return under division (A), (B), (C), (F) or (G) of this section, the
tax administrator shall not make any inquiry or send any notice to the taxpayer
with regard to the return on or before the date the taxpayer files the return
or on or before the extended due date to file the return, whichever occurs
first.
      If a tax administrator violates division (H) of this section, the
municipal corporation shall reimburse the taxpayer for any reasonable costs
incurred to respond to such inquiry or notice, up to $150.
      Division (H) of this section does not apply to an extension received
under division (A) of this section if the tax administrator has actual
knowledge that the taxpayer failed to file for a federal extension as required
to receive the extension under division (A) of this section or failed to file
for an extension under division (C) or (F) of this section.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 1-17-18; Am. Ord. 2023-77, passed 11-1-23)
Statutory reference:
   Annual return; filing; extensions, see R.C. § 718.05
§ 37.095 AMENDED RETURNS.
   (A)   (1)   A taxpayer shall file an amended return with the Tax
Administrator in such form as the Tax Administrator requires if any of the
facts, figures, computations, or attachments required in the
taxpayer's annual return to determine the tax due levied by the municipality in
accordance with this chapter must be altered.
      (2)   Within 60 days after the final determination of any federal or
state tax liability affecting the taxpayer's municipal tax liability, that
taxpayer shall make and file an amended municipal return showing income subject
to the municipal income tax based upon such final determination of federal or
state tax liability, and pay any additional municipal income tax shown due
thereon or make a claim for refund of any overpayment, unless the tax or
overpayment is $10 or less.
      (3)   If a taxpayer intends to file an amended consolidated municipal
income tax return, or to amend its type of return from a separate return to a
consolidated return, based on the taxpayer's consolidated federal income tax
return, the taxpayer shall notify the Tax Administrator before filing the
amended return.
   (B)   (1)   In the case of an underpayment, the amended return shall be
accompanied by payment of any combined additional tax due together with any
penalty and interest thereon. If the combined tax shown to be due is $10 or
less, such amount need not accompany the amended return. Except as provided
under division (B)(2) of this section, the amended return shall not reopen
those facts, figures, computations, or attachments from a previously filed
return that are not affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment
to the taxpayer's federal or state income tax return unless the applicable
statute of limitations for civil actions or prosecutions under §
37.19 has not expired for a previously filed return.
      (2)   The additional tax to be paid shall not exceed the amount of tax
that would be due if all facts, figures, computations, and attachments were
reopened.
   (C)   (1)   In the case of an overpayment, a request for refund may be filed
under this division within the period prescribed by §
37.19(A)(2) for filing the amended return even if it is filed beyond the period
prescribed in that division if it otherwise conforms to the requirements of
that division. If the amount of the refund is $10 or less, no refund need be
paid by the municipality to the taxpayer.
         Except as set forth in division (C)(2) of this section, a request
filed under this division shall claim refund of overpayments resulting from
alterations to only those facts, figures, computations, or attachments required
in the taxpayer's annual return that are affected, either directly or
indirectly, by the adjustment to the taxpayer's federal or state income tax
return unless it is also filed within the time prescribed in §
37.096. Except as set forth in division (C)(2) of this section, the request
shall not reopen those facts, figures, computations, or attachments that are
not affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to the
taxpayer's federal or state income tax return.
      (2)   The amount to be refunded shall not exceed the amount of refund
that would be due if all facts, figures, computations, and attachments were
reopened.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 1-17-18)
Statutory reference:
   Limitations, see R.C. § 718.12
   Amended returns, see R.C. § 718.41
§ 37.096 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a request for a refund, the Tax Administrator of the
municipality, in accordance with this section, shall refund to employers,
agents of employers, other payers, or taxpayers, with respect to any income or
withholding tax levied by the municipality:
      (1)   Overpayments of more than $10;
      (2)   Amounts paid erroneously if the refund requested exceeds $10.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, returns setting
forth a request for refund shall be filed with the Tax Administrator, within
three years after the tax was due or paid, whichever is later. Any
documentation that substantiates the taxpayer's claim for a refund must be
included with the return filing. Failure to remit all documentation, including
schedules, other municipal income tax returns, or other supporting
documentation necessary to verify credits, income, losses or other pertinent
factors on the return will cause delay in processing, and/or disallowance of
undocumented credits or losses.
      (2)   On filing of the refund request, the Tax Administrator shall
determine the amount of refund due and certify such amount to the appropriate
municipal corporation official for payment. Except as provided in division (B)
(3) of this section, the Administrator shall issue an assessment to any
taxpayer whose request for refund is fully or partially denied. The assessment
shall state the amount of the refund that was denied, the reasons for the
denial, and instructions for appealing the assessment.
      (3)   If a Tax Administrator denies in whole or in part a refund request
included within the taxpayer's originally filed annual income tax return, the
Tax Administrator shall notify the taxpayer, in writing, of the amount of the
refund that was denied, the reasons for the denial, and instructions for
requesting an assessment that may be appealed under §
37.18.
   (C)   A request for a refund that is received after the last day for filing
specified in division (B) of this section shall be considered to have been
filed in a timely manner if any of the following situations exist:
      (1)   The request is delivered by the postal service, and the earliest
postal service postmark on the cover in which the request is enclosed is not
later than the last day for filing the request.
      (2)   The request is delivered by the postal service, the only postmark
on the cover in which the request is enclosed was affixed by a private postal
meter, the date of that postmark is not later than the last day for filing the
request, and the request is received within seven days of such last day.
      (3)   The request is delivered by the postal service, no postmark date
was affixed to the cover in which the request is enclosed or the date of the
postmark so affixed is not legible, and the request is received within seven
days of the last day for making the request.
   (D)   Interest shall be allowed and paid on any overpayment by a taxpayer of
any municipal income tax obligation from the date of the overpayment until the
date of the refund of the overpayment, except that if any overpayment is
refunded within 90 days after the final filing date of the annual return or 90
days after the completed return is filed, whichever is later, no interest shall
be allowed on the refund. For the purpose of computing the payment of interest
on amounts overpaid, no amount of tax for any taxable year shall be considered
to have been paid before the date on which the return on which the tax is
reported is due, without regard to any extension of time for filing that
return. Interest shall be paid at the interest rate described in §
37.10(A)(4).
   (E)   As used in this section, "withholding tax" has the same meaning as in
§
37.10.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 1-17-18)
Statutory reference:
   Requests for refunds, see R.C. § 718.19
§ 37.10 PENALTY, INTEREST, FEES, AND CHARGES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   APPLICABLE LAW means this chapter, the resolutions, chapters,
codes, directives, instructions, and rules adopted by the municipality provided
such resolutions, chapters, codes, directives, instructions, and rules impose
or directly or indirectly address the levy, payment, remittance, or filing
requirements of a municipal income tax.
      (2)   FEDERAL SHORT-TERM RATE means the rate of the average market yield
on outstanding marketable obligations of the United States with remaining
periods to maturity of three years or less, as determined under section 1274 of
the Internal Revenue Code, for July of the current year.
      (3)   INCOME TAX, ESTIMATED INCOME TAX, and WITHHOLDING TAX mean any
income tax, estimated income tax, and withholding tax imposed by a municipal
corporation pursuant to applicable law, including at any time before January 1,
2016.
      (4)   INTEREST RATE AS DESCRIBED IN DIVISION (A) OF THIS SECTION means
the federal short-term rate, rounded to the nearest whole number percent, plus
5%. The rate shall apply for the calendar year next following the July of the
year in which the federal short-term rate is determined in accordance with
division (A)(2) of this section. RETURN includes any tax return, report,
reconciliation, schedule, and other document required to be filed with a Tax
Administrator or municipal corporation by a taxpayer, employer, any agent of
the employer, or any other payer pursuant to applicable law, including at any
time before January 1, 2016.
      (5)   UNPAID ESTIMATED INCOME TAX means estimated income tax due but not
paid by the date the tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      (6)   UNPAID INCOME TAX means income tax due but not paid by the date the
income tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      (7)   UNPAID WITHHOLDING TAX means withholding tax due but not paid by
the date the withholding tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      (8)   WITHHOLDING TAX includes amounts an employer, any agent of an
employer, or any other payer did not withhold in whole or in part from an
employee's qualifying wages, but that, under applicable law, the employer,
agent, or other payer is required to withhold from an employee's qualifying
wages.
   (B)   (1)   This section shall apply to the following:
         (a)   Any return required to be filed under applicable law for taxable
years beginning on or after January 1, 2016;
         (b)   Income tax, estimated income tax, and withholding tax required
to be paid or remitted to the municipality on or after January 1, 2016 for
taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2016.
      (2)   This section does not apply to returns required to be filed or
payments required to be made before January 1, 2016, regardless of the filing
or payment date. Returns required to be filed or payments required to be made
before January 1, 2016, but filed or paid after that date shall be subject to
the chapters or rules, as adopted from time to time before January 1, 2016 of
this municipality.
   (C)   The municipality shall impose on a taxpayer, employer, any agent of
the employer, and any other payer, and will attempt to collect, the interest
amounts and penalties prescribed in this section when the taxpayer, employer,
any agent of the employer, or any other payer for any reason fails, in whole or
in part, to make to the municipality timely and full payment or remittance of
income tax, estimated income tax, or withholding tax or to file timely with the
municipality any return required to be filed.
      (1)   Interest shall be imposed at the rate defined as "interest rate as
described in division (A) of this section", per annum, on all unpaid income
tax, unpaid estimated income tax, and unpaid withholding tax. This imposition
of interest shall be assessed per month, or fraction of a month.
      (2)   With respect to unpaid income tax and unpaid estimated income tax,
a penalty equal to 15% of the amount not timely paid shall be imposed.
      (3)   With respect to any unpaid withholding tax, a penalty not exceeding
50% of the amount not timely paid shall be imposed.
      (4)   (a)   For tax years ending on or before December 31, 2022, with
respect to returns other than estimated income tax returns, the municipality
shall impose a monthly penalty of $25 for each failure to timely file each
return, regardless of the liability shown thereon for each month, or any
fraction thereof, during which the return remains unfiled regardless of the
liability shown thereon. The penalty shall not exceed a total of $150 in
assessed penalty for each failure to timely file a return.
         (b)   For tax years ending on or after January 1, 2023, with respect
to returns other than estimated income tax returns, the municipality may impose
a penalty not exceeding $25 for each failure to timely file each return,
regardless of the liability shown thereon, except that the municipality shall
abate or refund the penalty assessed on a taxpayer's first failure to timely
file a return after the taxpayer files that return.
   (D)   With respect to income taxes, estimated income taxes, withholding
taxes, and returns, the municipality shall not impose, seek to collect, or
collect any penalty, amount of interest, charges or additional fees not
described in this section.
   (E)   With respect to income taxes, estimated income taxes, withholding
taxes, and returns, the municipality shall not refund or credit any penalty,
amount of interest, charges, or additional fees that were properly imposed or
collected before January 1, 2016.
   (F)   The Tax Administrator may, in the Tax Administrator's sole discretion,
abate or partially abate penalties or interest imposed under this section when
the Tax Administrator deems such abatement or partial abatement to be
appropriate. Such abatement or partial abatement shall be properly documented
and maintained on the record of the taxpayer who received benefit of such
abatement or partial abatement.
   (G)   The municipality may impose on the taxpayer, employer, any agent of
the employer, or any other payer the municipality's post-judgment collection
costs and fees, including attorney's fees.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 1-17-18; Am. Ord. 2023-77, passed 11-1-23)
Statutory reference:
   Interest and penalties, see R.C. § 718.27
§ 37.11 AUDIT.
   (A)   At or before the commencement of an audit, as defined in §
37.03(C)(3), the Tax Administrator shall provide to the taxpayer a written
description of the roles of the Tax Administrator and of the taxpayer during an
audit and a statement of the taxpayer's rights, including any right to obtain a
refund of an overpayment of tax. At or before the commencement of an audit, the
Tax Administrator shall inform the taxpayer when the audit is considered to
have commenced.
   (B)   Except in cases involving suspected criminal activity, the Tax
Administrator shall conduct an audit of a taxpayer during regular business
hours and after providing reasonable notice to the taxpayer. A taxpayer who is
unable to comply with a proposed time for an audit on the grounds that the
proposed time would cause inconvenience or hardship must offer reasonable
alternative dates for the audit.
   (C)   At all stages of an audit by the Tax Administrator, a taxpayer is
entitled to be assisted or represented by an attorney, accountant, bookkeeper,
or other tax practitioner. The Tax Administrator shall prescribe a form by
which a taxpayer may designate such a person to assist or represent the
taxpayer in the conduct of any proceedings resulting from actions by the Tax
Administrator. If a taxpayer has not submitted such a form, the Tax
Administrator may accept other evidence, as the Tax Administrator considers
appropriate, that a person is the authorized representative of a taxpayer.
      A taxpayer may refuse to answer any questions asked by the person
conducting an audit until the taxpayer has an opportunity to consult with the
taxpayer's attorney, accountant, bookkeeper, or other tax practitioner. This
division does not authorize the practice of law by a person who is not an
attorney.
   (D)   A taxpayer may record, electronically or otherwise, the audit
examination.
   (E)   The failure of the Tax Administrator to comply with a provision of
this section shall neither excuse a taxpayer from payment of any taxes owed by
the taxpayer nor cure any procedural defect in a taxpayer's case.
   (F)   If the Tax Administrator fails to substantially comply with the
provisions of this section, the Tax Administrator, upon application by the
taxpayer, shall excuse the taxpayer from penalties and interest arising from
the audit.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 1-17-18)
Statutory reference:
   Audits, see R.C. § 718.36
§ 37.12 ROUNDING.
   A person may round to the nearest whole dollar all amounts the person is
required to enter on any return, report, voucher, or other document required
under this chapter. Any fractional part of a dollar that equals or exceeds $.50
shall be rounded to the next whole dollar, and any fractional part of a dollar
that is less than $.50 shall be dropped, rounding down to the nearest whole
dollar. If a person chooses to round amounts entered on a document, the person
shall round all amounts entered on the document.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 1-17-18)
Statutory reference:
   Rounding of amounts, see R.C. § 718.25
§ 37.13 AUTHORITY AND POWERS OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR
§ 37.131 AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; ADMINISTRATIVE POWERS OF THE TAX
ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Tax Administrator has the authority to perform all duties and functions
necessary and appropriate to implement the provisions of this chapter,
including without limitation:
   (A)   Exercise all powers whatsoever of an inquisitorial nature as provided
by law, including, the right to inspect books, accounts, records, memorandums,
and federal and state income tax returns, to examine persons under oath, to
issue orders or subpoenas for the production of books, accounts, papers,
records, documents, and testimony, to take depositions, to apply to a court for
attachment proceedings as for contempt, to approve vouchers for the fees of
officers and witnesses, and to administer oaths;
provided that the powers referred to in this division of this section shall be
exercised by the Tax Administrator only in connection with the performance of
the duties respectively assigned to the Tax Administrator under a municipal
corporation income tax chapter or resolution adopted in accordance with this
chapter;
   (B)   Appoint agents and prescribe their powers and duties;
   (C)   Confer and meet with officers of other municipal corporations and
states and officers of the United States on any matters pertaining to their
respective official duties as provided by law;
   (D)   Exercise the authority provided by law, including orders from
bankruptcy courts, relative to remitting or refunding taxes, including
penalties and interest thereon, illegally or erroneously imposed or collected,
or for any other reason overpaid, and, in addition, the Tax Administrator may
investigate any claim of overpayment and make a written statement of the Tax
Administrator's findings, and, if the Tax Administrator finds that there has
been an overpayment, approve and issue a refund payable to the taxpayer, the
taxpayer's assigns, or legal representative as provided in this chapter;
   (E)   Exercise the authority provided by law relative to consenting to the
compromise and settlement of tax claims;
   (F)   Exercise the authority provided by law relative to the use of
alternative apportionment methods by taxpayers in accordance with §
37.062;
   (G)   Make all tax findings, determinations, computations, assessments and
orders the Tax Administrator is by law authorized and required to make and,
pursuant to time limitations provided by law, on the Tax Administrator's own
motion, review, redetermine, or correct any tax findings, determinations,
computations, assessments or orders the Tax Administrator has made, but the Tax
Administrator shall not review, redetermine, or correct any tax finding,
determination, computation, assessment or order which the Tax Administrator has
made for which an appeal has been filed with the Local Board of Tax Review or
other appropriate tribunal, unless such appeal or application is withdrawn by
the appellant or applicant, is dismissed, or is otherwise final;
   (H)   Destroy any or all returns or other tax documents in the manner
authorized by law;
   (I)   Enter into an agreement with a taxpayer to simplify the withholding
obligations described in §
37.051.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 1-17-18)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of Tax Administrator, see R.C. § 718.24
§ 37.132 AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; COMPROMISE OF CLAIM AND PAYMENT OVER
TIME.
   (A)   As used in this section, CLAIM means a claim for an amount payable to
the municipality that arises pursuant to the municipal income tax imposed in
accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   The Tax Administrator may do either of the following if such action is
in the best interests of the municipality:
      (1)   Compromise a claim;
      (2)   Extend for a reasonable period the time for payment of a claim by
agreeing to accept monthly or other periodic payments, upon such terms and
conditions as the Tax Administrator may require.
   (C)   The Tax Administrator's rejection of a compromise or payment-over-time
agreement proposed by a person with respect to a claim shall not be appealable.
   (D)   A compromise or payment-over-time agreement with respect to a claim
shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of only the parties to the
compromise or agreement, and shall not extinguish or otherwise affect the
liability of any other person.
   (E)   (1)   A compromise or payment-over-time agreement with respect to a
claim shall be void if the taxpayer defaults under the compromise or agreement
or if the compromise or agreement was obtained by fraud or by misrepresentation
of a material fact. Any amount that was due before the compromise or agreement
and that is unpaid shall remain due, and any penalties or interest that would
have accrued in the absence of the compromise or agreement shall continue to
accrue and be due.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator shall have sole discretion to determine
whether or not penalty, interest, charges or applicable fees will be assessed
through the duration of any compromise or payment-over-time agreement.
   (F)   The Tax Administrator may require that the taxpayer provide detailed
financial documentation and information, in order to determine whether or not a
payment-over-time agreement will be authorized. The taxpayer's failure to
provide the necessary and required information by the Tax Administrator shall
preclude consideration of a payment-over-time agreement.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 1-17-18)
Statutory reference:
   Administration of claims, see R.C. § 718.28
§ 37.133 AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; RIGHT TO EXAMINE.
   (A)   The Tax Administrator, or any authorized agent or employee thereof may
examine the boas, papers, records, and federal and state income tax returns of
any employer, taxpayer, or other person that is subject to, or that the Tax
Administrator believes is subject to, the provisions of this chapter for the
purpose of verifying the accuracy of any return made or, if no return was
filed, to ascertain the tax due under this chapter. Upon written request by the
Tax Administrator or a duly authorized agent or employee thereof, every
employer, taxpayer, or other person subject to this section is required to
furnish the opportunity for the Tax Administrator, authorized agent, or
employee to investigate and examine such books, papers, records, and federal
and state income tax returns at a reasonable time and place designated in the
request.
   (B)   The records and other documents of any taxpayer, employer, or other
person that is subject to, or that a Tax Administrator believes is subject to,
the provisions of this chapter shall be open to the Tax Administrator's
inspection during business hours and shall be preserved for a period of six
years following the end of the taxable year to which the records or documents
relate, unless the Tax Administrator, in writing, consents to their destruction
within that period, or by order requires that they be kept longer. The Tax
Administrator of a municipal corporation may require any person, by notice
served on that person, to keep such records as the Tax Administrator determines
necessary to show whether or not that person is liable, and the extent of such
liability, for the income tax levied by the municipality or for the withholding
of such tax.
   (C)   The Tax Administrator may examine under oath any person that the Tax
Administrator reasonably believes has knowledge concerning any income that was
or would have been returned for taxation or any transaction tending to affect
such income. The Tax Administrator may, for this purpose, compel any such
person to attend a hearing or examination and to produce any books, papers,
records, and federal and state income tax returns in such person's possession
or control. The person may be assisted or represented by an attorney,
accountant, bookkeeper, or other tax practitioner at any such hearing or
examination. This division does not authorize the practice of law by a person
who is not an attorney.
   (D)   No person issued written notice by the Tax Administrator compelling
attendance at a hearing or examination or the production of books, papers,
records, or federal and state income tax returns under this section shall fail
to comply.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 1-17-18)
Statutory reference:
   Accuracy of returns; verification, see R.C. § 718.23
§ 37.134 AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; REQUIRING IDENTIFYING INFORMATION.
   (A)   The Tax Administrator may require any person filing a tax document
with the Tax Administrator to provide identifying information, which may
include the person's social security
number, federal employer identification number, or other identification number
requested by the Tax Administrator. A person required by the Tax Administrator
to provide identifying information that has experienced any change with respect
to that information shall notify the Tax Administrator of the change before, or
upon, filing the next tax document requiring the identifying information.
   (B)   (1)   If the Tax Administrator makes a request for identifying
information and the Tax Administrator does not receive valid identifying
information within 30 days of making the request, nothing in this chapter
prohibits the Tax Administrator from imposing a penalty upon the person to whom
the request was directed pursuant to §
37.10, in addition to any applicable penalty described in §
37.99.
      (2)   If a person required by the Tax Administrator to provide
identifying information does not notify the Tax Administrator of a change with
respect to that information as required under division (A) of this section
within 30 days after filing the next tax document requiring such identifying
information, nothing in this chapter prohibits the Tax Administrator from
imposing a penalty pursuant to §
37.10.
      (3)   The penalties provided for under divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) of
this section may be billed and imposed in the same manner as the tax or fee
with respect to which the identifying information is sought and are in addition
to any applicable criminal penalties described in §
37.99 for a violation of §
37.15 and any other penalties that may be imposed by the Tax Administrator by
law.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 1-17-18)
Statutory reference:
   Identification information, see R.C. § 718.26
§ 37.14 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   (A)   Any information gained as a result of returns, investigations,
hearings, or verifications required or authorized by R.C. Chapter 718 or by the
charter or chapter of the municipality is confidential, and no person shall
access or disclose such information except in accordance with a proper judicial
order or in connection with the performance of that person's official duties or
the official business of the municipality as authorized by R.C. Chapter 718 or
the charter or chapter authorizing the levy. The Tax Administrator of the
municipality or a designee thereof may furnish copies of returns filed or
otherwise received under this chapter and other related tax information to the
Internal Revenue Service, the State Tax Commissioner, and Tax Administrators of
other municipal corporations.
   (B)   This section does not prohibit the municipality from publishing or
disclosing statistics in a form that does not disclose information with respect
to particular taxpayers.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 1-17-18)
Statutory reference:
   Tax information confidential, see R.C. § 718.13
§ 37.15 FRAUD.
   No person shall knowingly make, present, aid, or assist in the preparation
or presentation of a false or fraudulent report, return, schedule, statement,
claim, or document authorized or required by municipal corporation ordinance or
state law to be filed with the Tax Administrator, or knowingly procure,
counsel, or advise the preparation or presentation of such report, return,
schedule, statement, claim, or document, or knowingly change, alter, or amend,
or knowingly procure, counsel or advise such change, alteration, or amendment
of the records upon which such report, return, schedule, statement, claim, or
document is based with intent to defraud the municipality or the Tax
Administrator.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 1-17-18)
Statutory reference:
   Fraud, see R.C. § 718.35
§ 37.16 OPINION OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   An OPINION OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR means an opinion issued under this
section with respect to prospective municipal income tax liability. It does not
include ordinary correspondence of the Tax Administrator.
   (B)   A taxpayer may submit a written request for an opinion of the Tax
Administrator as to whether or how certain income, source of income, or a
certain activity or transaction will be taxed. The written response of the Tax
Administrator shall be an "opinion of the Tax Administrator" and shall bind the
Tax Administrator, in accordance with divisions (C), (D), and (H) of this
section, provided all of the following conditions are satisfied:
      (1)   The taxpayer's request fully and accurately describes the specific
facts or circumstances relevant to a determination of the taxability of the
income, source of income, activity, or transaction, and, if an activity or
transaction, all parties involved in the activity or transaction are clearly
identified by name, location, or other pertinent facts.
      (2)   The request relates to a tax imposed by the municipality in
accordance with this chapter.
      (3)   The Tax Administrator's response is signed by the Tax Administrator
and designated as an "opinion of the Tax Administrator."
   (C)   An opinion of the Tax Administrator shall remain in effect and shall
protect the taxpayer for whom the opinion was prepared and who reasonably
relies on it from liability for any taxes, penalty, or interest otherwise
chargeable on the activity or transaction specifically held by the Tax
Administrator's opinion to be taxable in a particular manner or not to be
subject to taxation for any taxable years that may be specified in the opinion,
or until the earliest of the following dates.
      (1)   The effective date of a written revocation by the Tax Administrator
sent to the taxpayer by certified mail, return receipt requested. The effective
date of the revocation shall be the taxpayer's date of receipt or one year
after the issuance of the opinion, whichever is later;
      (2)   The effective date of any amendment or enactment of a relevant
section of the Ohio Revised Code, uncodified state law, or the municipality's
income tax chapter that would substantially change the analysis and conclusion
of the opinion of the Tax Administrator;
      (3)   The date on which a court issues an opinion establishing or
changing relevant case law with respect to the Ohio Revised Code, uncodified
state law, or the municipality's income tax chapter;
      (4)   If the opinion of the Tax Administrator was based on the
interpretation of federal law, the effective date of any change in the relevant
federal statutes or regulations, or the date on which a court issues an opinion
establishing or changing relevant case law with respect to federal statutes or
regulations;
      (5)   The effective date of any change in the taxpayer's material facts
or circumstances;
      (6)   The effective date of the expiration of the opinion, if specified
in the opinion.
   (D)   (1)   A taxpayer is not relieved of tax liability for any activity or
transaction related to a request for an opinion that contained any
misrepresentation or omission of one or more material facts.
      (2)   If the taxpayer knowingly has misrepresented the pertinent facts or
omitted material facts with intent to defraud the municipality in order to
obtain a more favorable opinion, the taxpayer may be in violation of §
37.15.
   (E)   If a Tax Administrator provides written advice under this section, the
opinion shall include a statement that:
      (1)   The tax consequences stated in the opinion may be subject to change
for any of the reasons stated in division (C) of this section;
      (2)   It is the duty of the taxpayer to be aware of such changes.
   (F)   A Tax Administrator may refuse to offer an opinion on any request
received under this section.
   (G)   This section binds a Tax Administrator only with respect to opinions
of the Tax Administrator issued on or after January 1, 2016.
   (H)   An opinion of a Tax Administrator binds that Tax Administrator only
with respect to the taxpayer for whom the opinion was prepared and does not
bind the Tax Administrator of any other municipal corporation.
   (I)   A Tax Administrator shall make available the text of all opinions
issued under this section, except those opinions prepared for a taxpayer who
has requested that the text of the opinion remain confidential. In no event
shall the text of an opinion be made available until the Tax Administrator has
removed all information that identifies the taxpayer and any other parties
involved in the activity or transaction.
   (J)   An opinion of the Tax Administrator issued under this section or a
refusal to offer an opinion under division (F) of this section may not be
appealed.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 1-17-18)
Statutory reference:
   Opinion of Tax Commissioner; request, see R.C. § 718.38
§ 37.17 ASSESSMENT; APPEAL BASED ON PRESUMPTION OF DELIVERY.
   (A)   (1)   The Tax Administrator shall serve an assessment either by
personal service, by certified mail, or by a delivery service authorized under
R.C. § 5703.056.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator may deliver the assessment through
alternative means as provided in this section, including, but not limited to,
delivery by secure electronic mail. Such alternative delivery method must be
authorized by the person subject to the assessment.
      (3)   Once service of the assessment has been made by the Tax
Administrator or other municipal official, or the designee of either, the
person to whom the assessment is directed may protest the ruling of that
assessment by filing an appeal with the Local Board of Tax Review within 60
days after the receipt of service. The delivery of an assessment of the Tax
Administrator as prescribed in R.C. § 718.18 is prima facie evidence that
delivery is complete and that the assessment is served.
   (B)   (1)   A person may challenge the presumption of delivery and service
as set forth in this division. A person disputing the presumption of delivery
and service under this section bears the burden of proving by a preponderance
of the evidence that the address to which the assessment was sent was not an
address with which the person was associated at the time the Tax Administrator
originally mailed the assessment by certified mail. For the purposes of this
section, a person is associated with an address at the time the Tax
Administrator originally mailed the assessment if, at that time, the person was
residing, receiving legal documents, or conducting business at the address; or
if, before that time, the person had conducted business at the address and,
when the assessment was mailed, the person's agent or the person's affiliate
was conducting business at the address. For the purposes of this section, a
person's affiliate is any other person that, at the time the assessment was
mailed, owned or controlled at least 20%, as determined by voting rights, of
the addressee's business.
      (2)   If a person elects to appeal an assessment on the basis described
in division (B)(1) of this section, and if that assessment is subject to
collection and is not otherwise appealable, the person must do so within 60
days after the initial contact by the Tax Administrator or other municipal
official, or the designee of either, with the person. Nothing in this division
prevents the Tax Administrator or other official from entering into a
compromise with the person if the person does not actually file such an appeal
with the Local Board of Tax Review.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 1-17-18)
Statutory reference:
   Service of assessment; presumption, see R.C. § 718.18
§ 37.18 LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW; APPEAL TO LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW.
   (A)   (1)   The legislative authority of the municipality shall maintain a
Local Board of Tax Review to hear appeals as provided in R.C. Chapter 718.
      (2)   The Local Board of Tax Review shall consist of three members, two
members shall be appointed by the legislative authority of the municipality,
and may not be employees, elected officials, or contractors with the
municipality at any time during their term or in the five years immediately
preceding the date of appointment. One member shall be appointed by the top
administrative official of the municipality. This member may be an employee of
the municipality, but may not be the director of finance or equivalent officer,
or the Tax Administrator or other similar official or an employee directly
involved in municipal tax matters, or any direct subordinate thereof.
      (3)   The term for members of the Local Board of Tax Review appointed by
the legislative authority of the municipality shall be two years. There is no
limit on the number of terms that a member may serve should the member be
reappointed by the legislative authority. The board member appointed by the top
administrative official of the municipality shall serve at the discretion of
the administrative official.
      (4)   Members of the Board of Tax Review appointed by the legislative
authority may be removed by the legislative authority as set forth in R.C. §
718.11(A)(4).
      (5)   A member of the board who, for any reason, ceases to meet the
qualifications for the position prescribed by this section shall resign
immediately by operation of law.
      (6)   A vacancy in an unexpired term shall be filled in the same manner
as the original appointment within 60 days of when the vacancy was created. Any
member appointed to fill a vacancy occurring prior to the expiration of the
term for which the member's predecessor was appointed shall hold office for the
remainder of such term. No vacancy on the board shall impair the power and
authority of the remaining members to exercise all the powers of the board.
      (7)   If a member is temporarily unable to serve on the board due to a
conflict of interest, illness, absence, or similar reason, the legislative
authority or top administrative official that appointed the member shall
appoint another individual to temporarily serve on the board in the member's
place. This appointment shall be subject to the same requirements and
limitations as are applicable to the appointment of the member temporarily
unable to serve.
      (8)   No member of the Local Board of Tax Review shall receive
compensation, fee, or reimbursement of expenses for service on the board.
   (B)   Whenever a Tax Administrator issues an assessment, the Tax
Administrator shall notify the taxpayer in writing at the same time of the
taxpayer's right to appeal the assessment, the manner in which the taxpayer may
appeal the assessment, and the address to which the appeal should be directed,
and to whom the appeal should be directed.
   (C)   Any person who has been issued an assessment may appeal the assessment
to the board by filing a request with the board. The request shall be in
writing, shall specify the reason or reasons why the assessment should be
deemed incorrect or unlawful, and shall be filed within 60 days after the
taxpayer receives the assessment.
   (D)   The Local Board of Tax Review shall schedule a hearing to be held
within 60 days after receiving an appeal of an assessment under division (C) of
this section, unless the taxpayer requests additional time to prepare or waives
a hearing. If the taxpayer does not waive the hearing, the taxpayer may appear
before the board and/or may be represented by an attorney at law, certified
public accountant, or other representative. The board may allow a hearing to be
continued as jointly agreed to by the parties. In such a case, the hearing must
be completed within 120 days after the first day of the hearing unless the
parties agree otherwise.
   (E)   The board may affirm, reverse, or modify the Tax Administrator's
assessment or any part of that assessment. The board shall issue a final
determination on the appeal within 90 days after the board's final hearing on
the appeal, and send a copy of its final determination by ordinary mail to all
of the parties to the appeal within 15 days after issuing the final
determination. The taxpayer or the Tax Administrator may appeal the board's
final determination as provided in R.C. § 5717.011.
   (F)   The Local Board of Tax Review created pursuant to this section shall
adopt rules governing its procedures, including a schedule of related costs,
and shall keep a record of its transactions. The rules governing the Local
Board of Tax Review procedures shall be in writing, and may be amended as
needed by the Local Board of Tax Review. Such records are not public records
available for inspection under R.C. § 149.43. For this reason, any
documentation, copies of returns or reports, final determinations, or working
papers for each case must be maintained in a secure location under the control
of the Tax Administrator. No member of the Local Board of Tax Review may remove
such documentation, copies of returns or reports, final determinations, or
working papers from the hearing. Hearings requested by a taxpayer before a
Local Board of Tax Review created pursuant to this section are not meetings of
a public body subject to R.C. § 121.22. For this reason, such hearings shall
not be open to the public, and only those parties to the case may be present
during the hearing.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 1-17-18)
Statutory reference:
   Local Board of Tax Review, see R.C. § 718.11
§ 37.19 ACTIONS TO RECOVER; STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   Civil actions to recover municipal income taxes and
penalties and interest on municipal income taxes shall be brought within the
latter of three years after the tax was due or the return was filed, whichever
is later; or
            1.   One year after the conclusion of the qualifying deferral
period, if any.
         (b)   The time limit described in division (A)(1)(a) of this section
may be extended at any time if both the Tax Administrator and the employer,
agent of the employer, other payer, or taxpayer consent in writing to the
extension. Any extension shall also extend for the same period of time the time
limit described in division (C) of this section.
      (2)   As used in this section, QUALIFYING DEFERRAL PERIOD means a period
of time beginning and ending as follows:
         (a)   Beginning on the date a person who is aggrieved by an assessment
files with a Local Board of Tax Review the request described in §
37.18. That date shall not be affected by any subsequent decision, finding, or
holding by any administrative body or court that the Local Board of Tax Review
with which the aggrieved person filed the request did not have jurisdiction to
affirm, reverse, or modify the assessment or any part of that assessment.
         (b)   Ending the later of the 60th day after the date on which the
final determination of the Local Board of Tax Review becomes final or, if any
party appeals from the determination of the Local Board of Tax Review, the 60th
day after the date on which the final determination of the Local Board of Tax
Review is either ultimately affirmed in whole or in part or ultimately reversed
and no further appeal of either that affirmation, in whole or in part, or that
reversal is available or taken.
   (B)   Prosecutions for an offense made punishable under a resolution or
ordinance imposing an income tax shall be commenced within three years after
the commission of the offense, provided that in the case of fraud, failure to
file a return, or the omission of 25% or more of income required to be
reported, prosecutions may be commenced within six years after the commission
of the offense.
   (C)   A claim for a refund of municipal income taxes shall be brought within
the time limitation provided in §
37.096.
   (D)   (1)   Notwithstanding the fact that an appeal is pending, the
petitioner may pay all or a portion of the assessment that is the subject of
the appeal. The acceptance of a payment by the municipality does not prejudice
any claim for refund upon final determination of the appeal.
      (2)   If upon final determination of the appeal an error in the
assessment is corrected by the Tax Administrator, upon an appeal so filed or
pursuant to a final determination of the Local Board of Tax Review created
under §
37.18, of the Ohio Board of Tax Appeals, or any court to which the decision of
the Ohio Board of Tax Appeals has been appealed, so that the amount due from
the party assessed under the corrected assessment is less than the amount paid,
there shall be issued to the appellant or to the appellant's assigns or legal
representative a refund in the amount of the overpayment as provided by §
37.096, with interest on that amount as provided by division (D) of this
section.
   (E)   No civil action to recover municipal income tax or related penalties
or interest shall be brought during either of the following time periods:
      (1)   The period during which a taxpayer has a right to appeal the
imposition of that tax or interest or those penalties;
      (2)   The period during which an appeal related to the imposition of that
tax or interest or those penalties is pending.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 1-17-18)
Statutory reference:
   Statute of limitations, see R.C. § 718.12
§ 37.20 ADOPTION OF RULES.
   (A)   Pursuant to R.C. § 718.30, the provisions contained within this
chapter, the municipality has the authority, to adopt rules to administer the
income tax imposed by the municipality.
   (B)   All rules adopted under this section shall be published and posted on
the internet.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 1-17-18)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of rules, see R.C. § 718.30
§ 37.21 ADOPTION OF R.I.T.A. RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   This municipality hereby adopts the Regional Income Tax Agency (RITA) Rules
& Regulations, including amendments that may be made from time to time, for use
as this municipality's Income Tax Rules and Regulations. In the event of a
conflict with any provisions(s) of this municipality Income Tax Ordinance and
the RITA Rules & Regulations, the ordinance will supersede. Until and if the
contractual relationship between this municipality and RITA ceases, this
section will supersede all other provisions regarding promulgation of rules and
regulations by the Tax Administrator.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 1-17-18)
§ 37.97 COLLECTION AFTER TERMINATION OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   This chapter shall continue in full force and effect insofar as the
levy of taxes is concerned until repealed, and insofar as the collection of
taxes levied hereunder and actions and proceedings for collecting any tax so
levied or enforcing any provisions of this chapter are concerned, it shall
continue in full force and effect until all of the taxes levied in the
aforesaid period are full paid and any and all suits and prosecutions for the
collection of taxes or for the punishment of violations of this chapter have
been fully terminated, subject to the limitations contained in §
37.19.
   (B)   Annual returns due for all or any part of the last effective year of
this chapter shall be due on the date provided in §
37.091 as though the same were continuing.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 1-17-18)
§ 37.98 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   If any sentence, clause, section or part of this chapter, or any tax imposed
against, or exemption from tax granted to, any taxpayer or forms of income
specified herein is found to be unconstitutional, illegal or invalid, such
unconstitutionality, illegality, or invalidity shall affect only such clause,
sentence, section or part of this chapter so found and shall not affect or
impair any of the remaining provisions, sentences, clauses, sections or other
parts of this chapter. It is hereby declared to be the intention of the
legislative authority of the municipality that this chapter would have been
adopted had such unconstitutional, illegal or invalid sentence, clause, section
or part thereof not been included in this chapter.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 1-17-18)
§ 37.99  VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, whoever violates §
37.051,
37.14(A), or
37.15 by failing to remit municipal income taxes deducted and withheld from an
employee, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be
subject to a fine of not more than $1,000 or imprisonment for a term of up to
six months, or both. In addition, the violation is punishable by dismissal from
office or discharge from employment, or both.
   (B)   Any person who discloses information received from the Internal
Revenue Service in violation of section 7213(a), 7213A, or 7431 of the Internal
Revenue Code shall be guilty of a felony of the fifth degree and shall be
subject to a fine of not more than $5,000 plus the costs of prosecution, or
imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years, or both, in addition, the
violation is punishable by dismissal from office or discharge from employment,
or both.
   (C)   Each instance of access or disclosure in violation of §
37.14(A) constitutes a separate offense.
   (D)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which violation no
penalty is otherwise provided, is guilty of a misdemeanor of the 4th degree on
a first offense; on a second offense within one year after the first offense,
the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the 3rd degree; on each subsequent
offense within one year after the first offense, the person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the 2nd degree. By way of an illustrative enumeration,
violations of this chapter shall include but not be limited to the following
acts, conduct, and/or omissions:
      (1)   Fail, neglect or refuse to make any return or declaration required
by this chapter;
      (2)   Knowingly make any incomplete return;
      (3)   Willfully fail, neglect, or refuse to pay the tax, penalties, and
interest, or any combination thereof, imposed by this chapter;
      (4)   Cause to not be remitted the city income tax withheld from
qualifying wages of employees to the municipality as required by §
37.051;
      (5)   Neglect or refuse to withhold or remit municipal income tax from
employees;
      (6)   Refuse to permit the Tax Administrator or any duly authorized agent
or employee to examine his or her books, records, papers, federal and state
income tax returns, or any documentation relating to the income or net profits
of a taxpayer;
      (7)   Fail to appear before the Tax Administrator and to produce his or
her books, records, papers, federal and state income tax returns, or any
documentation relating to the income or net profits of a taxpayer upon order or
subpoena of the Tax Administrator;
      (8)   Refuse to disclose to the Tax Administrator any information with
respect to such person's income or net profits, or in the case of a person
responsible for maintaining information relating to his or her employers'
income or net profits, such person's employer's income or net profits;
      (9)   Fail to comply with the provisions of this chapter or any order or
subpoena of the Tax Administrator;
      (10)   To avoid imposition or collection of municipal income tax,
willfully give to an employer or prospective employer false information as to
his or her true name, correct social security number and residence address, or
willfully fail to promptly notify an employer or a prospective employer of any
change in residence address and date thereof;
      (11)   Fail, as an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer, to
maintain proper records of employees residence addresses, total qualifying
wages paid and municipal tax withheld, or to knowingly give the Tax
Administrator false information;
      (12)   Willfully fail, neglect, or refuse to make any payment of
estimated municipal income tax for any taxable year or any part of any taxable
year in accordance with this chapter;
      (13)   Attempt to do anything whatsoever to avoid the payment of the
whole or any part of the tax, penalties or interest imposed by this chapter.
      (14)   For purposes of this section, any violation that does not specify
a culpable mental state or intent, shall be one of strict liability and no
culpable mental state or intent shall be required for a person to be guilty of
that violation.
      (15)   For purposes of this section, the term PERSON shall, in addition
to the meaning prescribed in §
37.03, include in the case of a corporation, association, pass-through entity
or unincorporated business entity not having any resident owner or officer
within the city, any employee or agent of such corporation, association, pass-
through entity or unincorporated business entity who has control or supervision
over or is charged with the responsibility of filing the municipal income tax
returns and making the payments of the municipal income tax as required by this
chapter.
(Ord. 2018-6, passed 1-17-18)
Statutory reference:
   Violations; penalties, see R.C. § 718.99
CHAPTER 38: VILLAGE POLICY
Section
   
38.01   Control and use of municipal building
   
38.02   Smoking prohibited in Council chambers
   
38.03   General funds provided for refreshments at public receptions
   
38.04   Disability procurement policy
   
38.05   Hiring of family members
   
38.06   Gasoline usage policy
   
38.07   Sale of court ordered forfeited property
   
38.08   Public records requests
   
38.09   Identity theft policy
   
38.10   Disposal of village real property without bidding
   
38.11   Substance abuse prevention policy
   
38.12   Municipal motor vehicle license fee
   
38.13   Credit card policies
   
38.14   Grant applications and grant award agreements
   
38.15   Sale or disposal of personal property with a value of $1,000 or less
§ 38.01 CONTROL AND USE OF MUNICIPAL BUILDING.
   (A)   The Municipal Building of the village, its facilities and the use
thereof shall be under the exclusive control and jurisdiction of the Village
Council.
   (B)   No changes either structurally or in appearance of the building or its
surrounding premises shall be made without the express written consent of
Council.
   (C)   Mondays, Tuesdays and Wednesdays after 6:30 p.m. will be reserved
exclusively for Council use. Saturdays until 12:00 noon will be reserved. Any
special meetings required by Council will take precedence.
   (D)   Use of the Municipal Building or its facilities for other than village
business may be granted by the Building Committee of Council. Application for
use must be in writing and may be submitted to the Clerk-Treasurer.
Reservations will be on a first come basis; however, no organization shall
schedule more than two meetings during any calendar month when such meetings
begin after 6:00 p.m.
   (E)   The person or persons to whom permission to use said facilities is
granted shall be responsible and shall pay for any damages to said building,
its fixtures or any property, real or personal, located therein, including any
expense incurred by the village to clean said premises after said use.
Additionally, such person or persons shall, prior to such use, execute a use
agreement which shall set forth the precise terms and conditions of such use
and which shall contain an indemnification and hold harmless provision in favor
of the village. A copy of such agreement is attached to Ordinance 59-1990 and
made a part hereof by reference. Further, the Clerk-Treasurer shall require a
cash fee of $25, plus a cash deposit of $100, such cash deposit to be refunded
to the person or persons being granted the use of the premises less an amount
sufficient to cover any damages. The fee shall be waived for civic
organizations.
   (F)   Youth groups using the facilities will have adult supervision at all
times.
   (G)   To avoid conflict, the Building Committee will contact a designated
representative of the Fire Department regarding use of the kitchen facilities
only.
   (H)   The consuming of alcoholic beverages within the council chamber,
kitchen facilities, public offices, rest rooms, entrances and exits, or grounds
of the Municipal Building are absolutely prohibited except that beer may be so
consumed if the prior consent of Council is obtained, which such consent shall
not be granted except in those cases as are determined by a majority Council,
upon formal motion to be of a community fund raising nature, or which serve a
similar worthwhile community purpose. Except as provided by § 98.02, Smoking is
permissible so long as ashtrays are utilized.
   (I)   Violations of those rules and regulations set forth herein are hereby
deemed sufficient grounds for Council, at the recommendation of the Building
Committee or a member of Council, to forbid, in writing, the violator or
violators from entering upon the premises of the Municipal Building for so long
a period of time as Council deems necessary in light of the violation or
violations.
   (J)   Parking areas have been reserved for the Mayor, Clerk-Treasurer,
Police Vehicles and Fire Department. Unauthorized vehicles parked in these
areas may be towed or cited for illegal parking.
(Ord. 38-1971, passed 7-21-71; Am. Ord. 30-1977, passed 5-4-77; Am. Ord. 11-
1978, passed 2-1-78; Am. Ord. 59-1990, passed 12-19-90)
§ 38.02 SMOKING PROHIBITED IN COUNCIL CHAMBERS.
   Smoking shall be prohibited in the Council chambers of the municipal
building during any and all Council meetings of the village. Such meetings
shall include Council meetings, special Council meetings, Committee meetings,
and work sessions of the Council.
(Res. 10-1978, passed 3-1-78; Am. Res. 26-A, passed 7-7-93)
§ 38.03 GENERAL FUNDS PROVIDED FOR REFRESHMENTS AT PUBLIC RECEPTIONS.
   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to expend from the General Fund,
annually, a sum of money not to exceed, in the aggregate, $800 for the purchase
of coffee, soft drinks, beverages, cookies, cakes, and the like to be served
and consumed at public receptions.
(Ord. 18-1996, passed 4-3-96)
§ 38.04 DISABILITY PROCUREMENT POLICY.
   The village shall, to the extent provided by R.C. § 4115.34, procure such
products or services provided by persons with severe disabilities that are set
forth on the published procurement list of the
State Use Committee that the product or service is available within the period
required by the village.
(Ord. 55, passed 9-6-00)
§ 38.05 HIRING OF FAMILY MEMBERS.
   Neither the Mayor nor any member of Council of the village shall, at any
time, participate in any determination as to an employment decision related to
any member of that specific elected individual. Should such an issue need to be
passed upon by Council, the Council member shall excuse himself or herself from
that vote. Should such an issue deal with a family member of the Mayor, then
the President of Council shall take the Mayor’s place while the employment
decision is related to that individual.
(Ord. 54, passed 9-6-00)
§ 38.06 GASOLINE USAGE POLICY.
   In order to insure that its gasoline is only utilized for village business,
the village hereby adopts the following requirements:
   (A)   The village’s gas pump shall be kept locked at all times;
   (B)   Only designated village employees shall have a key to that gas pump,
which they shall sign out from the Clerk-Treasurer;
   (C)   Each village employee shall complete the Gasoline Log Sheet each time
gasoline is dispensed into a vehicle;
   (D)   Each village employee shall complete a Mileage Log Sheet for any
vehicle driven on village business and shall turn those in to the Clerk-
Treasurer on a monthly basis;
   (E)   On a monthly basis, the Clerk-Treasurer shall reconcile the figures on
the log sheets with the actual usage as shown by the village’s gas pump and
shall call any discrepancies to the attention of the Mayor; and
   (F)   The Mayor shall investigate any such discrepancies and shall take
appropriate action.
(Ord. 65, passed 11-15-00)
§ 38.07 SALE OF COURT ORDERED FORFEITED PROPERTY.
   (A)   It is hereby established a policy upon the recommendation of the Chief
of Police, with the concurrence of the safety committee of Council, through
which the Safety Director shall be authorized to direct the Clerk-Treasurer to
immediately advertise for public sale any or all confiscated property which has
been forfeited and ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction to be
transferred to the Village Police Department and is no longer deemed necessary
for village use.
   (B)   Upon completion of all actions by the above-named offices of the
village under division (A), the Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized and
directed to advertise for bids for the sale of that property immediately.
(Ord. 5, passed 2-6-02)
§ 38.08 PUBLIC RECORDS REQUESTS.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby directed to solicit bids from private
contractors for copying services and from which the lowest cost provider shall
be chosen to complete public record copy requests of the village that are
anticipated to exceed 100 pages of materials to be copied.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is directed to implement a policy and establish
procedures for responding to public records requests in which all parties
instituting such requests for records that are anticipated to exceed 100 pages
of copied materials shall be responsible for the actual costs paid to the
selected private contractor employed to respond to the public records request
and that a deposit for such costs reasonably calculated to meet the actual
costs be provided to the village before copies are made. When the actual costs
of copying the materials is less than the deposit provided, the village shall
immediately refund the excess deposit.
(Res. 8, passed 2-3-05)
§ 38.09 IDENTITY THEFT POLICY.
   The village hereby adopts the Identity Theft Policy, attached to Resolution
No. 2009-26, passed April 15, 2009, as if fully set forth herein.
(Res. 2009-26, passed 4-15-09)
§ 38.10 DISPOSAL OF VILLAGE REAL PROPERTY WITHOUT BIDDING.
   The Village Council may establish by resolution that real property owned by
the village be purchased or sold with or without advertising for sale or
soliciting bids if the Village Council finds that buying or selling such
property without competitive bidding is in the best interests of the village
and its citizens.
(Ord. 2018-91, passed 12-5-18)
§ 38.11 SUBSTANCE ABUSE PREVENTION POLICY.
   (A)   Legally prescribed drugs and non-prescription medications. The
appropriate use of legally prescribed drugs and non-prescription medication is
not prohibited. However, when taking any prescription or non-prescription
medication which may interfere with the safe and effective performance of their
duties, employees are encouraged to consult their licensed medical doctor and
report such use to the Mayor or the Mayor's designee. Certification from a
medical doctor that an employee is able to perform the normal functions of
their position may be required before the employee will be allowed to continue
working. This requirement includes medical marijuana that has been recommended
by an authorized medical doctor, and dispensed by a licensed marijuana
dispensary in accordance with the requirements of the Ohio Revised Code and any
related regulations.
      (1)   Medical marijuana.
         (a)   Any village employee who is using medical marijuana shall report
such use to the Mayor or the Mayor's designee, shall provide evidence:
            1.   Of the employee being registered with the state patient
registry;
            2.   Of a recommendation from a medical doctor who has a
certificate to recommend its use; and
            3.   That the medical marijuana was obtained from a licensed
marijuana dispensary.
         (b)   An employee who has a recommendation for medical marijuana who
tests positive for marijuana shall be treated as using an appropriately
prescribed drug when they have complied with the requirements of division (a)
and have used the marijuana in compliance with the physician's recommendations.
      (2)   Use of medical marijuana. Use of medical marijuana is prohibited as
follows:
         (a)   By employees who are required to hold commercial driver's
licenses in the course of their employment.
         (b)   By employees who are required and/or permitted to carry firearms
in the course of their employment.
         (c)   By an employee so as to cause them to be under the influence of
medical marijuana during the scope and course of their employment.
         (d)   By an employee during the scope and course of their employment.
         (e)   By an employee that performs safety-sensitive duties. For
purposes of this provision, safety sensitive duties, include, but are not
limited to: fire fighters, police officers, emergency medical personnel, and
snow removal personnel.
      (3)   Possession of medical marijuana. An employee is prohibited from
possessing medical marijuana and related paraphernalia while on village
property or in a village vehicle.
   (B)   Worker's compensation. An employee that tests positive for a medical
marijuana product during post-injury drug testing shall not be eligible for
Workers' Compensation even though the employee has a recommendation for that
use from a physician who is properly certified to make such a recommendation.
   (C)   Relationship to other provisions of law. The terms of this policy do
not alter any employment-at-will relationship with employees. All employees
subject to this policy remain subject to all other policies, procedures, rules,
regulations, and collective bargaining agreements established by the appointing
authority under its independent authority, which are not inconsistent with the
requirements herein. All employees also remain subject to all other relevant
federal, state, and local laws and regulations. Commercial driver's license
holders shall abide by this policy as well as the Department of Transportation
guidelines for alcohol and controlled substance testing.
(Ord. 2019-17, passed 2-20-19)
§ 38.12 MUNICIPAL MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   There is hereby levied an annual license tax upon the operation of
motor vehicles on public roads or highways pursuant to R.C. § 4504.173, for the
purposes of paying the cost and expenses of enforcing and administering the tax
provided for this section; and to provide additional revenue for the purposes
set forth in R.C. § 4504.173(A)(2), and to supplement revenue already available
for such purposes.
   (B)   Such tax shall be at the rate of $5 per motor vehicle on each and
every motor vehicle, the district of regulation of which as defined in R.C. §
4503.10, is in the village. As used in this section, the term MOTOR VEHICLE
shall mean any and all vehicles included within the definition of motor vehicle
in R.C. §§ 4501.01 and 4505.01
   (C)   The tax imposed by this section shall apply to and be in effect for
registrations commencing January 1, 2021 and shall continue in full force and
effect and application during each registration year thereafter.
   (D)   The tax imposed by this section shall be paid to the Registrar of
Motor Vehicles of the State of Ohio or to a deputy Registrar at the time
application for registration on a motor vehicle is made as provided in R.C. §
4503.10.
   (E)   This rate of tax is in addition to the tax rates prescribed in any
other section of the Revised Code and adopted by the village, relating to
license tax for operation of motor vehicles.
(Ord. 2019-71, passed 8-7-19)
§ 38.13 CREDIT CARD POLICIES.
   The village credit card policy as attached to Res. 2019-23 as Exhibit A is
hereby incorporated by reference as if laid out in full herein.
(Res. 2019-23, passed 2-20-19)
§ 38.14 GRANT APPLICATIONS AND GRANT AWARD AGREEMENTS.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized to execute grant applications for any grant
where the village's obligation to match or otherwise expend village funds or
share in the expense of the grant activity does not exceed $25,000. The Mayor
is further authorized to execute any grant award agreements for any grant where
the village is not required to provide any matching funds or otherwise expend
village funds or share in the expense of the grant activity. All other grant
applications and grant award agreements may only be signed by the Mayor upon
the approval of the Village Council pursuant to a resolution.
(Ord. 2023-41, passed 6-21-23)
§ 38.15 SALE OR DISPOSAL OF PERSONAL PROPERTY WITH A VALUE OF $1,000 OR LESS.
   (A)   The Mayor may sell any personal property no longer needed for
municipal purposes, or that is obsolete or unfit for the use for which it was
acquired, and that has a value of $1,000 or less, upon the method, terms and
conditions determined appropriate by the Mayor, without the need of approval of
the Village Council and without the need for advertising the same, solicitation
of bids or the conduct of any public auction.
   (B)   The Mayor may dispose of any personal property no longer needed for
municipal purposes, or that is obsolete or unfit for the use for which it was
acquired, and that has no value beyond that for which it may be scrapped or
salvaged, not to exceed $1,000, by means of discarding, scrapping or salvaging
the same without the need of approval of the Village Council and without the
need for advertising the same, solicitation of bids or the conduct of any
public auction.
   (C)   Nothing contained herein shall be construed to limit or prohibit the
use of a public auction or solicitation of bids for the sale or disposal of
personal property with a value of less than $1,000, including any online or
internet auctions or sales, if the Mayor determines that such method is
appropriate for the sale or disposition of the same.
   (D)   The Mayor may not sell any personal property pursuant to this section
to any official or employee of the village, or to any business or other entity
in which any village official or employee has ownership interest.
(Ord. 2024-59, passed 9-4-24)
CHAPTER 39: INVESTMENT POLICY
Section
   
39.01   Policy statement
   
39.02   Definitions
   
39.03   Scope of policy
   
39.04   Prudence
   
39.05   Primary objectives
   
39.06   Delegation of authority
   
39.07   Conflict of interest
   
39.08   Authorized financial dealers and institutions
   
39.09   Authorized and suitable investments
   
39.10   Collateralization
   
39.11   Safekeeping and custody
   
39.12   Diversification
   
39.13   Maximum maturities
   
39.14   Internal control
   
39.15   Performance standards
   
39.16   Reporting
   
39.17   Investment policy adoption
§ 39.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It is the policy of the village to invest public funds in a manner which
will provide the highest investment return with the maximum security while
meeting the daily cash flow demands of the entity and conforming to all state
and local statutes governing the investment of public funds.
(Ord. 48, passed 8-16-00)
§ 39.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCRUED. To accumulate periodically as an increase.
   AGENCIES. Federal agency securities and/or government-sponsored enterprises.
   AMORTIZE. To prorate funds over a fixed period of time.
   ASKED. The price at which securities are offered.
   BANKERS’ ACCEPTANCE (BA). A draft, bill, or exchange accepted by a bank or
trust company. The accepting institution guarantees payment of the bill, as
well as the issuer.
   BENCHMARK. A standard point of reference in measuring.
   BID. The price offered by a buyer of securities. (When you are selling
securities, you ask for a BID.) See OFFER.
   BROKER. A BROKER brings buyers and sellers together for a commission.
   CERTIFICATE OF DEPOSIT (CD). A time deposit with a specific maturity level
evidenced by a certificate. Large denomination CDs are typically negotiable.
   COLLATERAL. Securities, evidence of deposit or other property, which a
borrower pledges to secure payment for a loan. Also refers to securities
pledged by a bank to secure deposits of public monies.
   COUPON. 
      (1)   The annual rate of interest that a bond’s issuer promises to pay
the bondholder on the bond’s face value.
      (2)   A certificate attached to a bond evidencing interest due on a
payment date.
   DEALER. A DEALER, as opposed to a BROKER, acts as the principal in all
transactions, buying and selling for his own account.
   DEBENTURE. A bond secured only by the general credit of the issuer.
   DELIVERY VERSUS PAYMENT. There are two methods of delivery of securities:
DELIVERY VERSUS PAYMENT and DELIVERY VERSUS RECEIPT.
      (1)   DELIVERY VERSUS PAYMENT is delivery of securities with an exchange
of money for the securities.
      (2)   DELIVERY VERSUS RECEIPT is a delivery of securities with an
exchange of a signed receipt for securities.
   DERIVATIVES. 
      (1)   Financial instruments whose return profile is linked to, or derived
from, the movement of one or more underlying index or security, and may include
a leveraging factor; or
      (2)   Financial contracts based upon notional amounts whose value is
derived from an underlying index or security (interest rates, foreign exchange
rates, equities, or commodities).
   DISCOUNT. The difference between the cost price of a security and its
maturity when quoted at lower than face value. A security selling below
original offering price shortly after sale also is considered to be a DISCOUNT.
   DISCOUNT SECURITIES. Non-interest bearing money market instruments that are
issued at discount and redeemed at maturity for full face value, e.g., U.S.
Treasury Bills.
   DIVERSIFICATION. Dividing investment funds among a variety of securities
offering independent returns.
   FEDERAL CREDIT AGENCIES. Agencies of the federal government set up to supply
credit to various classes of institutions and individuals, e.g. S & L’s, small
business firms, student’s, farmers, farm cooperatives, and exporters.
   FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION (FDIC). A federal agency that insures
bank deposits, currently up to $100,000 per deposit.
   FEDERAL FUNDS RATE. The rate of interest at which federal funds are traded.
This rate is currently pegged by the Federal Reserve through open market
operations.
   FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS (FHLB). Government sponsored wholesale banks
(currently 12 regional banks) which lend funds and provide correspondent
banking services to member commercial banks, thrift institutions, credit
unions, and insurance companies. The mission of the FHLBs is to liquify the
housing related to assets of its members who must purchase stock in their
district bank.
   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FNMA).  FNMA, like GNMA was chartered
under the Federal National Mortgage Association Act in 1938. FNMA is a federal
corporation working under the auspices of the Department of Housing and Urban
Development (HUD). It is the largest single provider of residential mortgage
funds in the United States. Fannie Mae, as the corporation is called, is a
private stockholder-owned corporation. The corporation’s purchases include a
variety of adjustable mortgages and second loans, in addition to fixed rate
mortgages. FNMA’s securities are also highly liquid and are widely accepted.
FNMA assumes and guarantees that all security holders will receive timely
payment of principal and interest.
   FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (FOMC). Consists of seven members of the
Federal Reserve Board and five of the 12 Federal Reserve Bank Presidents. The
President of the New York Federal Reserve Bank is a permanent member while the
other Presidents serve on a rotating basis. The Committee periodically meets to
set Federal Reserve Guidelines regarding purchases and sales of government
securities in the open market as a means of influencing the volume of bank
credit and money.
   FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM. The central bank of the United States created by
Congress and consisting of a seven-member Board of Governors in Washington,
D.C., 12 regional banks, and about 5,700 commercial banks that are members of
the system.
   GOVERNMENT NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (GNMA or GINNIE MAE).  Securities
influencing the volume of bank credit guaranteed by GNMA and issued by mortgage
bankers, commercial banks, savings and loan associations, and other
institutions. The security holder is protected by full faith and credit of the
U.S. Government. GINNIE MAE securities are backed by the FHA, VA or FMHA
mortgages. The term “pass-throughs” is often used to describe GINNIE MAES.
   LIQUIDITY. A LIQUID asset is one that can be converted easily and rapidly
into cash without a substantial loss of value. In the money market, a security
is said to be LIQUID if the spread between the BID and ASKED prices is narrow
and reasonable size can be done at those quotes.
   MARKET VALUE. The price at which a security is trading and could be
presumably purchased or sold.
   MASTER REPURCHASE AGREEMENT. A written contract covering all future
transactions between the parties to repurchase-reverse repurchase agreements
that establishes each party’s rights in the transactions. A master agreement
will often specify, among other things, the right of the buyer-lender to
liquidate the underlying securities in the event of default by the seller-
borrower.
   MATURITY. The date upon which the principal or stated value of an investment
becomes due and payable.
   MONEY MARKET. The market in which short-term debt instruments (bills,
commercial paper, bankers' acceptances, etc.) are issued and traded.
   OFFER. The price asked by a seller of securities. (When you are buying
securities, you ask for an OFFER.) See ASKED and BID.
   OPEN MARKET OPERATIONS. Repurchases and sales of government and certain
other securities in the open market by the New York Federal Reserve Bank as
directed by the FOMC in order to influence the volume of money and credit in
the economy. Purchases inject reserves into the bank system and stimulate
growth of money and credit; sales have the opposite effect. OPEN MARKET
OPERATIONS are the Federal Reserve’s most important and most flexible monetary
policy tool.
   PORTFOLIO. Collection of securities held by an investor.
   PRIMARY DEALER. A group of government securities dealers who submit daily
reports of market activity and positions and monthly financial statements to
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and are subject to its informal oversight.
Primary dealers include SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC) - registered
securities broker-dealers, banks, and a few unregulated firms.
   PRUDENT PERSON RULE. An investment standard whereby an investing officer may
invest in a security if it is one which would be bought by a prudent person of
discretion and intelligence who is seeking a reasonable income and preservation
of capital.
   PUBLIC DEPOSITORY. A banking institution authorized to do business with a
governmental entity.
   QUALIFIED PUBLIC DEPOSITORIES. A financial institution which does not claim
exemption from the payment of any sales or compensating use or ad valorem taxes
under the laws of this state, which has segregated for the benefit of the
commission eligible collateral having a value of not less than its maximum
liability and which has been approved by the Public Deposit Protection
Commission to hold public deposits.
   RATE OF RETURN. The yield obtainable on a security based on its purchase
price or its current market price. This may be the amortized yield to maturity
on a bond the current income return.
   REPURCHASE AGREEMENT (RP or REPO). A holder of securities sells these
securities to an investor with an agreement to repurchase them at a fixed price
on a fixed date. The security “buyer” in effect lends the “seller” money for
the period of the agreement, and the terms of the agreement are structured to
compensate him for this.
   SAFEKEEPING. A service to customers rendered by banks for a fee whereby
securities and valuables of all types and descriptions are held in the bank’s
vault for protection.
   SECONDARY MARKET. A market made for the purchase and sale of outstanding
issues following the initial distribution.
   SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION. Agency created by Congress to protect
investors in securities transactions by administering securities legislation.
SEC Rule 15c3-1: See UNIFORM NET CAPITAL RULE.
   STRUCTURED NOTES. Notes issued by government sponsored enterprises (FHLB,
FNMA, SLMA, etc.) and corporations which have imbedded options (e.g., call
features, step-up coupons, floating rate coupons, derivative-based returns)
into their debt structure. Their market performance is impacted by the
fluctuation of interest rates, the volatility of the imbedded option, and
shifts in the shape of the yield curve.
   TREASURY BILLS. A non-interest bearing discount security issued by the U.S.
Treasury to finance the national debt. Most bills are issued to mature in three
months, six months, or one year.
   TREASURY BONDS. Long-term coupon bearing U.S. Treasury securities issued as
direct obligations of the U.S. Government and having initial maturities of more
than ten years.
   TREASURY NOTES. Medium-term coupon bearing U.S. Treasury securities issued
as direct obligations of the U.S. Government and having initial maturities of
more than ten years.
   UNIFORM NET CAPITAL RULE.  Securities and Exchange Commission requirements
that member firms as well as nonmember broker-dealers in securities maintain a
maximum ratio of indebtedness to liquid capital of 15 to 1; also called net
capital rule and net capital ratio. Indebtedness covers all money owed to a
firm, including margin loans and commitments to purchase securities, one reason
new public issues are spread among members of underwriting syndicates. Liquid
capital includes cash and assets easily converted to cash.
   YIELD. The rate of annual income return on an investment, expressed as a
percentage.
      (1)   INCOME YIELD is obtained by dividing the current dollar income by
the current market price for security.
      (2)     NET YIELD or YIELD TO MATURITY is the current income yield minus
any premium above par or plus any discount from par in purchase price, with the
adjustment spread over the period from the date of purchase to the date of
maturity of the bond.
(Ord. 48, passed 8-16-00)
§ 39.03 SCOPE OF POLICY.
   (A)   This investment policy applies to all financial assets of the village.
   (B)   These funds are accounted for in the village’s annual financial
statement and include the following funds:
      (1)   General Fund;
      (2)   Special Revenue Funds;
      (3)   Capital Project Funds;
      (4)   Fiduciary Funds;
      (5)   Debt Service Fund; and
      (6)   Any new fund created by Village Council and approved by the local
Budget Commission, unless specifically exempted.
(Ord. 48, passed 8-16-00)
§ 39.04 PRUDENCE.
   (A)   Investments shall be made with judgment and care--under circumstances
then prevailing-- which persons of prudence, discretion, and intelligence
exercise in the management of their own affairs, not for speculation, but for
investment, considering the probable safety of their capital as well as the
probable income to be derived.
   (B)   The standard of prudence to be used by investment officials shall be
the “prudent person” standard and shall be applied in the context of managing
an overall portfolio. Investment officers acting in accordance with written
procedures and the investment policy and exercising due diligence shall be
relieved of personal responsibility for an individual security’s credit risk or
market price changes, provided deviations from expectations are reported in a
timely fashion and appropriate action is taken to control adverse developments.
(Ord. 48, passed 8-16-00)
§ 39.05 PRIMARY OBJECTIVES.
   The primary objectives, in order of priority, of the village investment
activities shall be:
   (A)   Safety. Safety of principal is the foremost objective of the
investment program. Investments of the village shall be undertaken in a manner
that seeks to ensure the preservation of capital in the overall portfolio. To
attain this objective, diversification is required in order that potential
losses on individual securities do not exceed the income generated from the
remainder of the portfolio.
   (B)   Liquidity. The village investment portfolio will remain sufficiently
liquid to enable the village to meet all operating requirements which might be
reasonably anticipated.
   (C)    Return on investments. The village investment portfolio shall be
designed with the objective of attaining a rate of return throughout budgetary
and economic cycles, commensurate with the village's investment risk
constraints and the cash flow characteristics of the portfolio.
(Ord. 48, passed 8-16-00)
§ 39.06 DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Responsibility. The Clerk-Treasurer shall be responsible for the
management of the investment program and shall be responsible for all
transactions undertaken and shall establish a system of controls to regulate
the activities of subordinate officials.
   (B)   Investment procedures. The Clerk-Treasurer shall establish written
investment policy procedures for the operation of the investment program
consistent with this policy subject to the approval of the Village Council. The
procedures should include reference to: safekeeping, PSA repurchase agreements,
wire transfer agreements, banking service contracts, and collateral/depository
agreements. The procedures shall also provide for investments in “SWEEP”
accounts with the village's depository banks. No person may engage in an
investment transaction except as provided under the terms of this policy and
the procedures established by the Clerk-Treasurer and approved by the Village
Council.
(Ord. 48, passed 8-16-00)
§ 39.07 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   Investment officials are prohibited from engaging in business activities
which conflict with the proper execution of the investment program. Investment
officials must disclose personal financial/investment positions which could be
affected by investment decisions made for the village. In all cases, investment
officials will subordinate their personal investment interests to those of the
village.
(Ord. 48, passed 8-16-00)
§ 39.08 AUTHORIZED FINANCIAL DEALERS AND INSTITUTIONS.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer will maintain a list of financial institutions
authorized to provide investment services. In addition, a list will also be
maintained of approved security broker/dealers selected by credit worthiness
who are authorized to provide investment services in the state. These may
include “primary” dealers or regional dealers that qualify under Securities &
Exchange Commission Rule 15c3-1 (Uniform Net Capital Rule). No public deposit
shall be made except in a qualified public depository as established by state
laws. All financial institutions and broker/dealers who desire to become
qualified bidders for investment transactions shall sign the village’s
investment policy and shall supply the Clerk-Treasurer with the following:
audited financial statement, proof of National Association of Security Dealers
Certification, proof of state registration, and certification of having read
the village investment policy and depository contracts.
   (B)   A current audited financial statement is required to be on file for
each financial institution and broker/dealer in which the village invests.
(Ord. 48, passed 8-16-00)
§ 39.09 AUTHORIZED AND SUITABLE INVESTMENTS.
   The village is empowered by statute to invest in the types of securities set
forth in R.C. Chapter 135 (Uniform Depository Act).
(Ord. 48, passed 8-16-00)
§ 39.10 COLLATERALIZATION.
   (A)   Collateralization will be required on two types of investments:
certificates of deposit and repurchase agreements. In order to anticipate
market changes and provide a level of security for all funds, the
collateralization level will be 102% of market value of principal and accrued
interest.
   (B)   The individual securities which collectively are subject of a
repurchase agreement become the property of the village for the period of the
agreement and are to be held by a third party for safekeeping. The village’s
demand deposit accounts may be placed in an account which meets the pooled
collateral requirements stated in R.C. Chapter 135, and the collateral may be
held by the institution at which the active funds are deposited. Where
administrative costs are comparable, preference will be given to those
institutions which will provide specific collateral over those which provide
pooled collateral.
(Ord. 48, passed 8-16-00)
§ 39.11 SAFEKEEPING AND CUSTODY.
   All security transactions, including collateral for repurchase agreements,
entered into by the village shall be conducted on a delivery-versus-payment
(DVP) basis. Securities will be held by a third party custodian designated by
the Clerk-Treasurer and evidenced by safekeeping receipts.
(Ord. 48, passed 8-16-00)
§ 39.12 DIVERSIFICATION.
   The village will diversify its investments by security type and institution.
With the exception of U.S. Treasury securities, authorized pools, and “SWEEP”
accounts with a depository bank, no more than 50% of the village’s total
investment portfolio will be invested in a single security type or with a
single financial institution.
(Ord. 48, passed 8-16-00)
§ 39.13 MAXIMUM MATURITIES.
   To the extent possible, the village will attempt to match its investments
with anticipated cash flow requirements. Unless matched to a specific cash
flow, the village will not directly invest in securities maturing more than two
years from the date of purchase. However, the village may collateralize its
repurchase agreements using longer-dated investments not to exceed five years
to maturity. All investments will be made with the intent to hold the
investment to maturity but may be sold earlier if necessary.
(Ord. 48, passed 8-16-00)
§ 39.14 INTERNAL CONTROL.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall establish an annual process of independent review
by an external auditor. This review will provide internal control by assuring
compliance with policies and procedures.
(Ord. 48, passed 8-16-00)
§ 39.15 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Investment portfolio. The investment portfolio shall be designed with
the objective of obtaining a rate of return throughout budgetary and economic
cycles, commensurate with the investment risk constraints and the cash flow
needs.
   (B)   Market yield (benchmark). The village’s investment strategy is active.
The six-month U.S. Treasury Note will be used to determine if market yields are
being achieved.
(Ord. 48, passed 8-16-00)
§ 39.16 REPORTING.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall provide monthly investment reports which provide a
clear picture of the status of the current investment portfolio to Council. The
report shall include the following:
   (A)   A listing of individual securities held at the end of the reporting
period by authorized investment category;
   (B)   Average life and final maturity of all investments listed;
   (C)   Coupon, discount, or earnings rate;
   (D)   Par value, amortized book value, and market value; and
   (E)   Percentage of the portfolio represented by each investment category.
(Ord. 48, passed 8-16-00)
§ 39.17 INVESTMENT POLICY ADOPTION.
   The village investment policy shall be adopted by ordinance of the village’s
legislative authority. The Clerk-Treasurer and the Finance Committee of the
Village Council will review this policy annually and recommend changes if any
to Council. Revisions may be made frequently if necessary.
(Ord. 48, passed 8-16-00)
CHAPTER 40: MOGADORE VACANCY PROGRAM
Section
   
40.01   Purpose
   
40.02   Eligibility
   
40.03   Schedule of grant benefits
   
40.04   Application process
   
40.05   Annual reporting and fee
   
40.06   Payback provision
Cross-reference:
   See Finance and Taxation, Ch. 37
§ 40.01 PURPOSE.
   The Village of Mogadore Vacancy Program (“M.V.P.”) shall provide a monetary
grant to a business that occupies a vacant commercial building or develops and
then subsequently occupies a building on a vacant commercial lot in the Village
where such occupancy results in new jobs in the Village. The appropriate
authority for this type of program is consistent with the purposes of Section
13 of Article VIII of the Ohio Constitution, to create or preserve jobs and
employment opportunities, and to improve the economic welfare of the people of
the State of Ohio and the Village of Mogadore. The grant is an annual payment
from the Village's non-tax (general fund) revenues equal to a portion of the
income tax paid as a result of new employment.
(Ord. 50, passed 10-4-07; Am. Ord. 39, passed 5-7-08)
§ 40.02 ELIGIBILITY.
   A company buying or leasing a vacant commercial building or developing and
subsequently occupying a building on a vacant commercial lot shall be eligible
to apply for and receive an annual MVP grant payment, through an MVP agreement
with the village, under the following terms and conditions:
   (A)   Any of the following four scenarios are proposed for the vacant site:
      (1)   The owner/business has a current payroll, excluding benefits, of at
least $500,000, and is creating new jobs that will result in at least $250,000
in annual payroll, excluding benefits, within a three-year period, and the
owner/business is not the recipient of an Enterprise Zone or Community
Reinvestment Area tax incentive; or
      (2)   The owner/business has a current payroll, excluding benefits, of at
least $750,000, and the owner/business is not the recipient of an Enterprise
Zone or Community Reinvestment Area tax incentive;
      (3)   The owner/business has a current payroll, excluding benefits, of at
least $1,000,000, and the owner/business is the recipient of an Enterprise Zone
or Community Reinvestment Area tax incentive; or
      (4)   The owner/business has a current payroll, excluding benefits, of at
least $100,000, and the owner/business is not the recipient of an Enterprise
Zone or Community Reinvestment Area tax incentive and the site for the proposal
is located within an area zoned as a Central Business District.
   (B)   The owner/business agrees to maintain the existing payroll and new
jobs for the period of the credit. Should the existing and/or new payroll
decline from the level existing at the time of the initial MVP agreement, the
village shall not pay, and the owner/business shall not receive, the grant
payment for the year in which the payroll is below the level existing at the
time of the initial MVP agreement. Failure of the owner/business to maintain
existing and new payroll commitments two years in a row shall result in a
mandatory discontinuance of the MVP agreement.
   (C)   The owner/business commits that it will comply with all laws and
ordinances of the village. Failure to do so during the term of the MVP
agreement may result in a termination of the MVP agreement by the village.
   (D)   The owner/business does not owe any delinquent taxes to the State of
Ohio or any political subdivision of the State of Ohio. Any delinquency to the
State of Ohio or any political subdivision of the State of Ohio in the payment
of any tax may result in the termination of the MVP agreement by the village.
   (E)   The owner/business applies for and signs the MVP agreement prior to
occupying the property.
(Ord. 50, passed 10-4-07; Am. Ord. 39, passed 5-7-08; Am. Ord. 2009-72, passed
11-4-09)
§ 40.03 SCHEDULE OF GRANT BENEFITS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, an MVP grant
recipient, whose site is located within a Central Business District, is
eligible to receive an annual grant payment equal to no more than 50% of the
total annual payroll taxes paid to the village for the duration of the MVP
agreement. Maximum duration of the MVP agreement is dependent upon annual
payroll and is indicated in the following schedule, provided, however that the
duration of the MVP agreement may not exceed the lease term if the benefiting
owner/business is leasing space:
 
Total Annual Payroll Duration
$100,000 to $200,000 2 Years
$200,000 to $300,000 3 Years
$300,000 to $400,000 4 Years
$400,000 to $500,000 5 Years
 
   (B)   In addition to the grant amounts provided in division (A) of this
section, an MVP grant recipient who intends to occupy commercial real property
with an appraised value exceeding $2,000,000, as appraised by the Summit County
Fiscal Officer or Portage County Auditor, at the time the grant application is
submitted to the village, is eligible for an additional annual grant payment in
an amount of $10,000 or one-third of the annual payroll taxes paid to the
village, whichever is less, for a maximum of five years, commencing the first
year following the last year of the initial grant payments set forth in this
division (B). To be eligible for this additional grant payment, the MVP grant
recipient must either be the owner of the commercial real property at issue or
must provide the village, for each year that a payment is sought under this
division (B), with a copy of a fully executed lease for the commercial real
property, indicating that the MVP recipient is the lessee of the property and
that the MVP grant recipient is responsible for the payment of all real
property taxes and assessments for the commercial real property.
(Ord. 50, passed 10-4-07; Am. Ord. 39, passed 5-7-08; Am. Ord. 2009-72, passed
11-4-09)
§ 40.04 APPLICATION PROCESS.
   (A)   Applications for MVP grants must be made to the village through the
Clerk-Treasurer on forms available from the Clerk-Treasurer. Upon receipt, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall forward the application to the Mayor. Initial discussions
between the Mayor and prospective applicants will be held in confidence. Should
the applicant wish to proceed, the application and all pertinent information
received from the applicant shall be forwarded to Council for consideration, at
which time the application and the pertinent information received from the
applicant shall then become public information. Concurrently with the
submission of the application and pertinent information to Council, the Mayor
shall direct the Village Solicitor to draft an MVP agreement and authorizing
ordinance for Council consideration. The matter shall then be placed before the
Finance Committee at its next meeting.
   (B)   An application fee of $250 shall be paid to the village upon submittal
of an MVP application.
   (C)   The first year of the duration of the MVP agreement shall be the first
full calendar year following the occupancy of the commercial building. The MVP
agreement shall terminate on December 31 of the last year of the duration of
the agreement.
(Ord. 50, passed 10-4-07; Am. Ord. 39, passed 5-7-08)
§ 40.05 ANNUAL REPORTING AND FEE.
   MVP grant recipients shall provide evidence documenting payroll commitments.
This information will be provided by submission of W-2s and employee income tax
withholding information for each year covering the facility no later than March
31 of any calendar year in which a grant was provided. These forms will be
reviewed by the Finance Committee at their first regularly scheduled meeting in
April. The Finance Committee will make a recommendation to the Mayor and
Council regarding the continuance or discontinuance of each MVP agreement and
grant. An annual monitoring agreement fee of $250 will be charged any owner/
business receiving benefits under this program. The annual monitoring fee will
be used to offset costs associated with program administration.
(Ord. 50, passed 10-4-07; Am. Ord. 39, passed 5-7-08)
§ 40.06 PAYBACK PROVISION.
   Should an owner/business receiving benefits through an MVP agreement move
from the village during the term of the agreement and/or fail to meet its
obligations under the terms of the MVP agreement, the owner/business shall be
required to reimburse the village an amount equal to the benefit received under
the MVP agreement.
(Ord. 50, passed 10-4-07; Am. Ord. 39, passed 5-7-08)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   RESIDENTIAL, MULTI-FAMILY, APARTMENT AND COMMERCIAL SOLID WASTE
COLLECTION
CHAPTER 50: RESIDENTIAL, MULTI-FAMILY, APARTMENT AND
COMMERCIAL SOLID WASTE COLLECTION
Section
   
50.01   Short title
   
50.02   Definitions
   
50.03   Collection and disposal deemed a public utility
   
50.04   Storage containers for garbage and refuse
   
50.05   Prohibited wastes
   
50.06   Uncollected garbage declared a nuisance/scavenging
   
50.07   Dumping on public places or vacant lots prohibited
   
50.08   Supervision of collection and removal
   
50.09   Garbage collection permit
   
50.10   Permits; fee
   
50.11   Disposal methods and permit revocation
   
50.12   Vehicle inspection
   
50.13   Vehicle requirements; covering and spillage; impounding
   
50.14   Reporting mechanisms
   
50.15   Collection rates
   
50.16   Billing; failure to remit fees
   
50.17   Dumping garbage in public receptacles prohibited
   
50.18   Unlawful periods of accumulation
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Residential, Multi-
Family, Apartment and Commercial Solid Waste Collection.
(Ord. 2020-105, passed 12-16-20)
§ 50.02 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter:
   ASBESTOS. The asbestiform varieties of sepentinite (chrysotile), riebeckite,
(crodiodolite), cummintonite-grunerite, anthophyllite and actinolitremolite.
   ASBESTOS-CONTAINING WASTE MATERIALS. Those wastes identified in Chapter
3745-20-01(b)(4) of the Ohio Administrative Code (OAC).
   BILLING UNIT. A room or group of rooms located within a dwelling, forming a
single habitable unit with facilities used or intended to be used by a single
family for living, sleeping, cooking and eating purposes.
   COMMERCIAL OPERATOR. All persons, firms or corporations who own or operate
stores, restaurants, industries, institutions and other similar places
including multi-family dwellings, or multi-family residential structures
containing four or more dwelling units who are not residential units or the
village municipal corporation.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible waste, except human excreta, sewage and other
water-carried wastes, including vegetable and animal offal and carcasses of
dead animals, and shall include all such substances from all public and private
establishments and from all residences.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Those substances which, singularly or in combination, post
a significant present or potential threat or hazard to human health or to the
environment, and which singularly or in combination, require special handling,
processing, or disposal because they are or may be flammable, explosive,
reactive, corrosive, toxic, carcinogenic, bioconcentrative or persistent in
nature, potentially lethal or an irritant or strong sensitizer.
   INFECTIOUS WASTE. Those wastes identified in Chapter 3745-27-01(V) of the
Ohio Administrative Code (OAC).
   MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENCE or APARTMENT. The grouping together of five or more
billing units under a common roof.
   PERMIT HOLDER. Any trash hauler duly authorized by the village for the
collection of garbage and rubbish at commercial operators.
   PREMISES. Land or buildings or both, occupied by a householder or a
commercial operator.
   RESIDENTIAL UNIT. Includes a single-family dwelling, duplex, triplex,
quadplex, or other building with one or more billing units grouped under a
common roof and with direct access to a public street.
   RUBBISH. Ashes, glass, crockery, tin cans, paper, boxes, rags and old
clothing and all other similar nonputrescible waste. The term RUBBISH shall not
include any material such as earth, sand,  brick, stone, plaster, or other
similar substances that may accumulate as a result of construction or
demolition operations.
   SOLID WASTE. Such unwanted residual solid or semi-solid material as results
from industrial, commercial, agricultural and community operations, excluding
earth or material from construction, mining or demolition operations, or other
waste materials of the type that would normally be included in demolition
debris, non-toxic fly ash, spent non-toxic foundry sand, and slag and other
substances that are not harmful or inimical to the public health, and includes,
but is not limited to garbage, tires, combustible and noncombustible material,
street dirt and debris. Solid waste does not include any material that is an
"infectious waste," a "hazardous waste," an "asbestos waste" or material
defined under "recycle material." For the purpose of this definition, "material
for construction operations or demolition operations" are those items affixed
to the structure being constructed or demolished, such as brick, concrete,
stone, glass, wall board, framing and finishing lumber, roofing materials,
plumbing, plumbing fixtures, wiring and insulation but excludes those materials
whose removal has been required prior to demolition. For purpose of this
definition, semi solid material does not contain liquids which can be readily
released under normal climatic conditions as determined by Methods 9095 (Paint
Filter Liquids Test) in SW-846: "Test Methods for Evaluating Solid Wastes,
Physical/Chemical Methods."
   SUBSCRIBER. All individuals residing and/or located within the Village of
Mogadore, in either a residential unit, multi-family residence or apartment,
who are required by the terms of this chapter to have their garbage and rubbish
collected.
   VILLAGE'S CONTRACT. The actual document signed between the Village of
Mogadore and a single solid waste hauler, through the open competitive bidding
process, for the exclusive right to collect garbage and rubbish for residential
units.
   VILLAGE'S CONTRACTOR or CONTRACTOR. The trash hauler authorized by the
village for the collection of garbage and rubbish at residential units.
   YARD WASTE. Leaves, grass clippings, weeds, holiday trees, bushes and brush
and branch clippings.
(Ord. 2020-105, passed 12-16-20)
§ 50.03 COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL DEEMED A PUBLIC UTILITY.
   (A)   The system of collection and disposal of garbage and rubbish by the
village is hereby declared to be a public utility. The services provided in
this chapter shall be rendered to all persons upon compliance with all
regulations pertaining to such utility.
   (B)   Each permit holder as described in this section shall provide weekly
collection of solid waste and recycling services.
   (C)   Residential pickup of solid waste, garbage, rubbish, recyclables and
yard waste is hereby limited to Tuesdays, Wednesdays and/or Thursdays. No
garbage and/or rubbish collector shall collect and/or dispose of rubbish within
the village between 9:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. the following day.
   (D)   Each residential unit (and thus a subscriber) and commercial operators
are hereby required to secure solid waste services from a permit holder as
provided herein.
      (1)   Mandatory residential subscriptions. All residential units within
the village who utilize any garbage and/or rubbish collections and disposal
service shall subscribe to the garbage and rubbish collection service of the
village's contractor.
      (2)   Permissive commercial subscriptions. All commercial operators
within the village who utilize any garbage and/or rubbish collections and
disposal service may only subscribe to the garbage and rubbish collection
service of a properly permitted solid waste hauler.
(Ord. 2020-105, passed 12-16-20)
§ 50.04 STORAGE CONTAINERS FOR GARBAGE AND REFUSE.
   (A)   Each commercial operator shall place its garbage and refuse at the
curb line, alley line or regular place of pick up and shall provide for itself
and at its own expense, in the following manner:
      (1)   Sealed plastic bags, designed as refuse containers, with a
thickness of at least 1.5 and a maximum capacity of 30 gallons or 50 pounds,
and metal or plastic cans or barrels, with two handles and a tightly-fitting
lid, as well as dumpsters approved by the village, are considered to be
authorized containers for refuse and garbage.
      (2)   Cardboard boxes will be acceptable containers for bulky or loose
materials other than garbage; however, the permit holder may refuse to accept
such boxes if they are overloaded or become wet.
      (3)   The permit holder shall tag all containers which are unauthorized
or unserviceable, which do not have serviceable handles for lifting and
carrying, which have holes in the bottom, or which are otherwise not suitable
for use. These tags shall advise the subscriber of the reason why the container
may not be used.
      (4)   Each subscriber shall properly wrap, bag or bundle garbage before
depositing it in collection containers.
   (B)   Each residential unit shall place its garbage and refuse at the curb
line, alley line or regular place of pick up in the following manner:
      (1)   For those selecting full-service option with the village's
contractor, the residential units shall unitize only those containers provided
by the village contractor and each week may set out two additional cubic yards
of garbage and rubbish in bags or up to six personal containers no larger than
33-gallons each. Bulky items larger than the two additional cubic yards shall
be placed alongside the contractor provided containers.
      (2)   For those selecting the low volume service option with the
village's contractor, the residential units shall unitize those bags provided
by the village contractor.
      (3)   The village contractor shall tag all containers which are
unauthorized or unserviceable, which do not have serviceable handles for
lifting and carrying, which have holes in the bottom, or which are otherwise
not suitable for use. These tags shall advise the subscriber of the reason why
the container may not be used.
      (4)   The subscriber shall properly wrap, bag or bundle garbage before
depositing it in collection containers.
      (5)   Recyclable items eligible for the curbside recycling program
maintained by the village's recycling collection contract shall be placed at
the curb line or alley line in such separate and distinctly marked containers
as shall be provided by the village's contractor or as specified by the
village's Director of Public Service.
   (C)   Additional items not fitting within the containers named above shall
be collected by the village contractor and/or permit holder, as applicable, as
follows:
      (1)   Bulk material (boards, fencing, paneling, carpeting, etc.) shall be
in four-foot lengths and tied in 18 inch bundles, weighing not more than 50
pounds. For residential units, the pickup of these items is subject to the
charge listed for this service in the village's contract.
      (2)   Large items (discarded furniture, Freon-free appliances, bicycles,
etc.) shall be placed at the usual place of collection at the curb or alley
line prior to the time of regular collection on the day of collection.
Subscribers shall wrap upholstered furniture, mattresses and rolled carpet in
plastic before pickup. For residential units, the pickup of these items is
subject to the charge listed for this service in the village's contract.
      (3)   Yard waste (leaves, grass clippings, weeds, shrub trimmings and
tree trimmings) shall be placed in yard waste containers or shall be in four-
foot lengths and tied in 18 inch bundles, and weigh no more than 50 pounds. For
residential units, the pickup of these items is not subject to any charge
unless listed in the village's approved price list.
      (4)   Holiday trees and decorations shall be collected in one piece
whenever placed at the point of collection by the resident. The pickup of these
items is subject to the charge listed for this service in the village's
contract, if any.
      (5)   Items containing Freon must be certified as having the gas removed,
prior to being placed at the point of collection by the resident. The pickup of
these items is subject to the charge listed for this service in the village's
contract, if any.
   (D)   Each container placed at the curb or alley as designated above, and
each other item set out for collection, shall be placed at the location no
earlier than 6:00 p.m. of the day before collection and shall be removed from
the required location no later than 9:00 p.m. after the collection has taken
place.
   (E)   No person, corporation, company, entity or firm shall charge any
subscriber for the pick-up of any container for any reason, including should a
trash hauler's permit be terminated. Each pick-up fee or charge to any
subscriber shall be subject to an administrative penalty of $100. Each document
issued or mailed to a subscriber asserting such charge shall constitute a
separate violation. If a person, corporation, company, entity or firm fails,
neglects or refuses to pay an administrative penalty within the time specified
by the Director of Public Service, then the person, corporation, company,
entity or firm in violation of this code shall, in addition to the
administrative penalty, pay an interest rate equal to 5% per annum for the life
of the administrative penalty and any reasonable attorney fees required in the
enforcement and/or collection of such penalties. Except as otherwise provided,
the Director of Public Service or his or her designee, shall be the enforcing
officer of this section. The enforcing officer is hereby authorized to enforce,
issue orders to prevent and stop violations, and administer the provisions of
this section. The Director may be assisted by other personnel as necessary.
(Ord. 2020-105, passed 12-16-20)
§ 50.05 PROHIBITED WASTES.
   No person shall deposit or cause to be deposited hazardous waste, asbestos,
asbestos containing waste material or infectious waste into any public or
private garbage or rubbish receptacle.
(Ord. 2020-105, passed 12-16-20) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06 UNCOLLECTED GARBAGE DECLARED A NUISANCE/SCAVENGING.
   (A)   Fermenting, putrefying or odoriferous garbage or refuse in containers
or dumped in the open is hereby declared to be a nuisance and the person
responsible therefore shall be guilty of violating this section.
   (B)   When rubbish has been set out in a proper container awaiting
collection and removal from any premises, no person shall scavenge or remove
any rubbish or part thereof, except with the consent of the owner, occupant, or
lessee of such premises.
(Ord. 2020-105, passed 12-16-20) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07 DUMPING ON PUBLIC PLACES OR VACANT LOTS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall throw or deposit or cause to be thrown or deposited, any
refuse or garbage on any vacant lot, public thoroughfare or street or any
public place.
(Ord. 2020-105, passed 12-16-20) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.08 SUPERVISION OF COLLECTION AND REMOVAL.
   The collection and removal of garbage and rubbish shall be conducted under
the supervision, direction and control of the Village Mayor and the Director of
Public Service and in strict conformance with the provisions of this chapter
and the rules of the Portage County Board of Health and Summit County Solid
Waste District, as may be applicable. The village's contractor must adhere to
the specific collection logistics as agreed to within the village's contract.
(Ord. 2020-105, passed 12-16-20)
§ 50.09 GARBAGE COLLECTION PERMIT.
   No person shall engage in the business of collecting or removing
recyclables, garbage, animal or vegetable refuse, ashes, rubbish, trash or
waste materials of any kind within the village and upon its streets without
obtaining a permit to do so and complying with requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2020-105, passed 12-16-20)
§ 50.10 PERMITS; FEE.
   (A)   No person shall collect from residential units or commercial operators
or transport garbage or rubbish within the village, unless possessing a valid,
unrevoked permit. Only one permit at a time can be issued by the village for
residential units. Multiple permits at a time can be issued by the village for
commercial operators. A permit shall be issued by the Clerk-Treasurer only upon
payment of the applicable annual fee, as determined by the Director of Public
Service, and only after the Village Police Department has determined that the
permittee can comply with the requirements described herein. The village's
contractor must also adhere to the performance bond specifications as set forth
in the village's contract.
   (B)   Whoever desires a permit hereunder shall make written application at
the Village's Municipal Building. The written application must be made on the
form provided, correctly stating the following information:
      (1)   Name, address and telephone number of applicant;
      (2)   Make, model and current registration license number of any motor
vehicle used in the business;
      (3)   A brief description of the type of materials to be collected;
      (4)   The applicant's business name, address and telephone number;
      (5)   The name, address and telephone number of each principal owner of
the applicant;
      (6)   Type of business/permit sought (commercial operators or residential
units);
      (7)   Location of site for disposing of solid waste and recyclables;
      (8)   If for commercial operators, a list of customers for whom the
applicant is currently providing with solid waste and/or recycling collection
services.
   (C)   The application for a permit shall be transmitted to the Mogadore
Police Department and a qualified member thereof shall inspect each motor
vehicle listed on the application to ascertain if the vehicle is in safe
operating condition and has equipment thereon to meet the requirements of R.C.
Chapter 4513 for operational safety for the type of motor vehicle being
inspected. Vehicles are required to be inspected annually.
   (D)   The results of the inspection shall be endorsed upon the application
by the examining officer. If the results are satisfactory, and upon payment by
the applicant of a permit fee of $100 for each such motor vehicle to be
operated within the village, the Clerk-Treasurer shall issue to the applicant a
permit, valid from the date of issuance to March 1 of the following year,
together with a license identification to affix to each motor vehicle. During
the period of validity of the permit, the license identification shall be
displayed upon each motor vehicle in an unobscured, conspicuous place. The
permit fee above described shall be collected for the purpose of reimbursing
the village for the cost of processing the permit application and performing
necessary vehicle inspections.
   (E)   Each commercial operator permit holder shall be required to post with
the village a $500 cash or surety bond to insure the faithful performance of
duties and responsibilities required of it under this chapter and ordinances
regulating vehicular traffic in the village, as well as trash and recyclable
collection and transportation.
   (F)   Each permit holder shall conspicuously place or cause to be placed on
each refuse truck operated in the village the company name and telephone
number, as stated on the permit, in the letter size of not less than six inches
in height. Additionally, there shall also be displayed on each vehicle the
village permit number in numbers not less than four inches in height.
   (G)   A certificate of insurance in the amount of $1,000,000 combined single
limit (combined bodily injury and property damage) per accident is hereby
required to each permit holder.
(Ord. 2020-105, passed 12-16-20) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.11 DISPOSAL METHODS AND PERMIT REVOCATION.
   All garbage and refuse collected or transported within the village shall be
disposed of in a manner as prescribed by the Portage County Board of Health or
Summit County Solid Waste District, as applicable, the village and all other
applicable laws. Collection permits shall be issued only to those collectors
who can provide adequate equipment, reliable service and proper disposal
methods. Failure to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
cause for revocation of the permit. The village's contractor must also adhere
to the methodology of collection and other productivity and quality standards
as outlined in the village's contract, or the village shall have the right to
exercise its option of terminating the contract as set forth in the village's
contract.
(Ord. 2020-105, passed 12-16-20)
§ 50.12 VEHICLE INSPECTION.
   All vehicles used in the collection of garbage, refuse or recycling
materials shall be inspected by the Police Department of the village to ensure
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and any relative rules and
regulations.
(Ord. 2020-105, passed 12-16-20)
§ 50.13 VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS; COVERING AND SPILLAGE; IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   All garbage or rubbish transported on the streets or other public
thoroughfares in the village shall be in proper containers, the bodies of which
are leak proof and of easily cleanable construction and shall be completely
covered with metal. No permit shall be issued for any motor vehicle which is
not so equipped.
   (B)   Spillage or drainage from permitted vehicles shall be considered a
misdemeanor. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person or permit
holder to spill or drain garbage and/or rubbish or cause to have garbage and/or
rubbish spilled or drained, anywhere within the village. The individual
responsible for such drainage or spillage, and his/her employer or his/her
contractor, shall have full logistical and financial responsibility for the
immediate cleanup of such spillage or drainage.
   (C)   No permit shall be issued for any motor vehicle which is not equipped
with an adequate covering, such as a tarpaulin or other suitable material, such
covering to effectively prevent materials collected therein from blowing from
or falling off the motor vehicle. No permit shall be issued for any motor
vehicle whose bed, body or containers thereon are not properly constructed to
prevent the dropping or leaking of the materials collected therein or thereon.
   (D)   No driver of any motor vehicle or truck hauling rubbish, garbage,
refuse, waste products or scrap material shall fail to have the load covered
with a tarpaulin, canvas or other suitable covering so as to prevent the
contents of the motor vehicle or truck from blowing, spilling or scattering on
the streets and alleys of the village.
   (E)   Any motor vehicle permitted in accordance with this chapter and
subsequently found by the Police Department not to be in compliance with the
requirements of this chapter may be impounded. In such case, the permit holder
shall be ordered to comply with such requirements. Upon the permit holder's
failure to do so, the Clerk-Treasurer, upon recommendation of the Police
Department, may revoke the permit holder's permit.
(Ord. 2020-105, passed 12-16-20) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.14 REPORTING MECHANISMS.
   (A)   Each permit holder must complete a village Bi-Monthly Report Form and
file it with the Clerk-Treasurer. The report form must be submitted by the 15th
day of February, April, June, August, October and December. This report form
will allow the village to comply with the reporting requirement of the Ohio
Department of Natural Resources, Division of Litter Prevention and Recycling.
   (B)   Each permit holder must also complete a village Semi-Annual Report
Municipal Solid Waste Form by the 15th day of July and the 15th day of January
of the following year and file it with the Clerk-Treasurer. This report form
will allow the village to comply with the reporting requirements of the Portage
County Department of Health and/or the Summit County Solid Waste District.
(Ord. 2020-105, passed 12-16-20)
§ 50.15 COLLECTION RATES.
   (A)   There shall be a charge billed to each residential unit by the
village's contractor for garbage and rubbish collection, the fee for which is
set forth in the village's contract. The fee for garbage and rubbish collection
will be assessed monthly but will be billed to the unit quarterly. The payment
for the aforementioned service shall be remitted to the village's contractor.
   (B)   Charges for commercial operators by permit holders shall be disclosed
to the village to ensure that such rates are reasonable and compliant with the
law.
   (C)   Under no circumstances shall any person, corporation, company, entity,
or firm ("hauler" herein) collect or attempt to collect from residential units,
commercial operators, or any other person any charges for solid waste disposal
and/or recycling services if such hauler does not have a permit as required
under this chapter or for any time period where such hauler does or will not
have a permit. Each such fee or charge shall be subject to an administrative
penalty of $100 issued by the Director of Public Service. Each document issued
or mailed by a hauler asserting such an impermissible charge or fee shall
constitute a separate violation. If a person, corporation, company, entity or
firm fails, neglects or refuses to pay an administrative penalty within the
time specified by the Director of Public Service, then the person, corporation,
company, entity or firm in violation of this code shall, in addition to the
administrative penalty, pay an interest rate equal to 5% per annum for the life
of the administrative penalty and any reasonable attorney fees required in the
enforcement and/or collection of such penalties. Except as otherwise provided,
the Director of Public Service, or his or her designee, shall be the enforcing
officer of this section. The enforcing officer is hereby authorized to enforce,
issue orders to prevent and stop violations, file collections suits through the
Law Director and otherwise do any and all things necessary to administer the
provisions of this section. The Director may be assisted by other personnel as
necessary.
(Ord. 2020-105, passed 12-16-20; Am. Ord. 2021-7, passed 1-20-21)
§ 50.16 BILLING; FAILURE TO REMIT FEES.
   (A)   The rates and fees referenced in §
50.15 shall be billed quarterly and shall be payable to the permit holder
providing services. By June 1st of each year, the permit holders may notify the
Clerk-Treasurer of all accounts that are greater than 120 days delinquent. The
Clerk-Treasurer may do either or both of the following:
      (1)   Certify unpaid charges for trash and rubbish collection, together
with any penalties and collection charges, to the County Auditor or Fiscal
Officer, as applicable, who shall place the certified amount on the real
property tax list and duplicate against the property served by the service. The
amount certified shall be a lien on the property served from the date placed on
the list and duplicate and shall be collected in the same manner as other
taxes, except, notwithstanding R.C. § 323.15, the County Treasurer or Fiscal
Officer, as applicable, shall accept payment in such amount when separately
tendered a payment for associated penalties. The lien shall be released
immediately upon payment in full of the certified amount. Unless the Clerk-
Treasurer determines that the transfer of the property is about to occur, the
Clerk-Treasurer may only make a certification under this division if the rents
or charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days prior to the
certification.
      (2)   Collect unpaid charges for trash and rubbish collection by actions
at law, in the name of the village from an owner, tenant or other person who is
liable to pay the rents or charges. The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to
collect outstanding charges from any landowner whose tenant has not paid these
charges within 90 days of the receipt of the bill. If the Clerk-Treasurer files
an action at law to collect the unpaid charges, then the person, corporation,
company, entity or firm in violation of this code shall, in addition to the
unpaid charges, pay an interest rate equal to 5% per annum and any reasonable
attorney fees required in the enforcement and/or collection of such penalties.
   (B)   With no less than a five-business day written notice to the Director
of Public Service, a permit holder may suspend services to a residential unit
or commercial operator if the service charges become delinquent for more than
60 days.
(Ord. 2020-105, passed 12-16-20)
§ 50.17 DUMPING GARBAGE IN PUBLIC RECEPTACLES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall dump their residential garbage into the public receptacles
provided by the village in the public areas of the village.
(Ord. 2020-105, passed 12-16-20) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.18 UNLAWFUL PERIODS OF ACCUMULATION.
   (A)   No subscriber shall keep garbage on any premises in the village for a
longer period of time than that expiring between three consecutive collection
dates when actual collections are made.
   (B)   No subscriber, commercial, industrial, governmental, or institutional
establishment shall keep garbage and refuse on premises in the village for such
a period of time as to endanger the health, welfare and safety of the residents
of the village, as determined by the Portage County Health Inspector, Summit
County Solid Waste District, or the village's Fire Chief.
(Ord. 2020-105, passed 12-16-20) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which a civil penalty or
another penalty is not specifically provided shall be subject to the penalty
provided in §
10.99.
(Ord. 2020-105, passed 12-16-20)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
72.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
73.   MOTOR VEHICLE CRIMES
      
74.   EQUIPMENT AND LOADS
      
75.   BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
      
76.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
77.   RAILROADS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Compliance with order of police officer
   
70.03   Emergency vehicles to proceed cautiously past red or stop signal
   
70.04   Exceptions generally; emergency, public safety and coroner vehicles
exempt
   
70.05   Persons riding or driving animals upon roadways
   
70.06   Prohibitions against pedestrians and slow-moving vehicles on freeways
   
70.07   Use of private property for vehicular travel
   
70.08   Names of persons damaging real property by operation of vehicle to be
provided to owner
   
70.09   Limited access highways; barriers along; vehicles to enter and leave at
designated intersections
   
70.10   Through highways
   
70.11   Officer may remove ignition key
   
70.12   Removal of vehicles after accidents
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.20   Obeying traffic-control devices
   
70.21   Signal lights
   
70.22   Signals over reversible lanes
   
70.23   Ambiguous or non-working traffic signals
   
70.24   Pedestrian-control signals
   
70.25   (Reserved)
   
70.26   Unauthorized signs and signals prohibited
   
70.27   Alteration, defacement, or removal prohibited
   
70.28   Unauthorized possession or sale of devices
   
70.29   Signal preemption devices; prohibitions
 
   
70.98   Violations
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Jurisdiction in traffic violations, see §
33.01
   Streets and sidewalks, general regulations, see
Chapter 95
   Unauthorized use of a motor vehicle, see §
131.09
   Unclaimed and abandoned motor vehicles, see
Chapter 92
Statutory reference:
   Local traffic regulations, scope and authority, see R.C. § 4511.07
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
   Traffic law photo-monitoring devices, state regulations, see R.C. § 4511.092
et seq.
   Uniform application and precedence of state traffic laws, see R.C. § 4511.06
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as otherwise provided, the definitions set forth in R.C. § 4501.01
shall apply to this title,
Chapter 92, and the penal laws of the village. For the purpose of this title
and
Chapter 92, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL TRACTOR. Every self-propelled vehicle designed or used for
drawing other vehicles or wheeled machinery, but having no provision for
carrying loads independently of such other vehicles, and used principally for
agricultural purposes.
   ALLEY. A street or highway intended to provide access to the rear or side of
lots or buildings in urban districts, and not intended for the purpose of
through vehicular traffic, and any street or highway that has been declared an
ALLEY by the legislative authority of the municipality in which the street or
highway is located.
   ARTERIAL STREET. Any United States or state numbered route, controlled-
access highway, or other major radial or circumferential street or highway
designated by local authorities within their respective jurisdictions as part
of a major arterial system of streets or highways.
   BEACON. A highway traffic signal with one or more signal sections that
operate in a flashing mode.
   BICYCLE. Every device, other than a device that is designed solely for use
as a play vehicle by a child, that is propelled solely by human power upon
which a person may ride, and that has two or more wheels, any of which is more
than 14 inches in diameter.
   BUS. Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than nine passengers,
and used for the transportation of persons other than in a ridesharing
arrangement, and every motor vehicle, automobile for hire, or funeral car,
other than a taxicab or motor vehicle used in a ridesharing arrangement,
designed and used for the transportation of persons for compensation.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory fronting upon a street or highway,
including the street or highway, between successive intersections within the
municipality, where 50% or more of the frontage between successive
intersections is occupied by buildings in use for business, or within or
outside the municipality where 50% or more of the frontage for a distance of
300 feet or more is occupied by  buildings in use for business, and the
character of the territory is indicated by official traffic-control devices.
   CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINE. A motor vehicle that is designed to carry nine or
fewer passengers and is operated for hire pursuant to a prearranged contract
for the transportation of passengers on public roads and highways along a route
under the control of the person hiring the vehicle and not over a defined and
regular route. “Prearranged contract” means an agreement, made in advance of
boarding, to provide transportation from a specific location in an chauffeured
limousine. CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINE does not include any vehicle that is used
exclusively in the business of funeral directing. (R.C. § 4501.01(LL))
   CHILD CARE CENTER. Has the same meaning as set forth in R.C. § 5104.01.
   COMMERCIAL TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle having motive power designed or used
for drawing other vehicles, and not so constructed as to carry any load
thereon, or designed or used for drawing other vehicles while carrying a
portion of the other vehicles, or the load thereon, or both.
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every street or highway in respect to which
owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal right or
access to or from the same except at certain points only and in a manner as may
be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over the street or
highway.
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   That part of a roadway at intersections ordinarily included within
the real or projected prolongation of property lines and curb lines or, in the
absence of curbs, the edges of the traversable roadway;
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere,
distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the
surface;
      (3)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this definition, there
shall not be a crosswalk where the Village Council has placed signs indicating
no crossing.
   DRIVER or OPERATOR. Any person who drives or is in actual physical control
of a vehicle.
   ELECTRIC BICYCLE. A “class 1 electric bicycle”, a “class 2 electric
bicycle”, or a “class 3 electric bicycle” as defined below.
      (1)   CLASS 1 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a bicycle that is equipped with
fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that
provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling and ceases to provide
assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 20 miles per hour.
      (2)   CLASS 2 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a bicycle that is equipped with
fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that may
provide assistance regardless of whether the rider is pedaling and is not
capable of providing assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 20 miles
per hour.
      (3)   CLASS 3 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a bicycle that is equipped with
fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that
provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling and ceases to provide
assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 28 miles per hour.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Emergency vehicles of municipal, township or county
departments or public utility corporations, when identified as such as required
by law, the Director of Public Safety, or local authorities, and motor vehicles
when commandeered by a police officer.
   EXPLOSIVES. Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is intended for
the purpose of producing an explosion that contains any oxidizing and
combustible units or other ingredients in such proportions, quantities, or
packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by percussion, or
by a detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause a sudden
generation of highly heated gases, such that the resultant gaseous pressures
are capable of producing destructive effects on  contiguous objects, or of
destroying life or limb. Manufactured articles shall not be held to be
explosives when the individual units contain explosives in limited quantities
of such nature or in such packing that it is impossible to procure a
simultaneous or a destructive explosion of the units, to the injury of life,
limb, or property by fire, friction, concussion, percussion, or by a detonator,
such as fixed ammunition for small arms, firecrackers, or safety fuse matches.
   EXPRESSWAY. A divided arterial highway for through traffic with full or
partial control of access with an excess of 50% of all crossroads separated in
grade.
   FLAMMABLE LIQUID. Any liquid which has a flash point of 70°F or less, as
determined by a tagliabue or equivalent closed cup test device.
   FREEWAY. A divided multi-lane highway for through traffic with crossroads
separated in grade and with full control of access.
   FUNERAL ESCORT VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, including a funeral hearse, while
used to facilitate the movement of a funeral procession.
   GROSS WEIGHT. The weight of a vehicle plus the weight of any load thereon.
   HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle used in snow and ice removal or road
surface maintenance, including a snow plow, traffic line striper, road sweeper,
mowing machine, asphalt distributing vehicle, or other such vehicle designed
for use in specific highway maintenance activities.
   HYBRID BEACON. A type of beacon that is intentionally placed in a dark mode
between periods of operation where no indications are displayed and, when in
operation, displays both steady and flashing traffic control signal
indications.
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of
two highways that join one another at, or approximately at, right angles, or
the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways that join at
any other angle might come into conflict. The junction of an alley or driveway
with a roadway or highway does not constitute an intersection unless the
roadway or highway at the junction is controlled by a traffic control device.
      (2)   If a highway includes two roadways that are 30 feet or more apart,
then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway constitutes a separate intersection. If both intersecting highways
include two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then every crossing of any two
roadways of such highways constitutes a separate intersection.
      (3)   At a location controlled by a traffic control signal, regardless of
the distance between the separate intersections as described in division (2) of
this definition:
         (a)   If a stop line, yield line, or crosswalk has not been designated
on the roadway within the median between the separate intersections, the two
intersections and the roadway and median constitute one intersection.
         (b)   Where a stop line, yield line, or crosswalk line is designated
on the roadway on the intersection approach, the area within the crosswalk and
any area beyond the designated stop line or yield line constitute part of the
intersection.
         (c)   Where a crosswalk is designated on a roadway on the departure
from the intersection, the intersection includes the area that extends to the
far side of the crosswalk.
   LANED HIGHWAY. A highway the roadway of which is divided into two or more
clearly marked lanes for vehicular traffic.
   LOCAL AUTHORITIES. Every county, municipal, and other local board or body
having authority to adopt police regulations under the Constitution and laws of
this state.
   LOW-SPEED MICROMOBILITY DEVICE. Means a device weighing less than 100 pounds
that has handlebars, is propelled by an electric motor or human power, and has
an attainable speed on a paved level surface of not more than 20 miles per hour
when propelled by the electric motor.
   MEDIAN. The area between two roadways of a divided highway, measured from
edge of traveled way to edge of traveled way, but excluding turn lanes. The
width of a median may be different between intersections, between interchanges,
and at opposite approaches of the same intersection.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle propelled or drawn by power other than muscular
power or power collected from overhead electric trolley wires, except motorized
bicycles, electric bicycles, road rollers, traction engines, power shovels,
power cranes and other equipment used in construction work, and not designed
for or employed in general highway transportation, hole-digging machinery,
well- drilling machinery, ditch-digging machinery, farm machinery, and trailers
designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage
and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or
highway for a distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 miles per
hour or less.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle, other than a tractor, having a seat or
saddle for the use of the operator and designed to travel on not more than
three wheels in contact with the ground, including, but not limited to, motor
vehicles known as “motor-driven cycle,” “motor scooter,” “autocycle,” “cab-
enclosed motorcycle,” or “motorcycle” without regard to weight or brake
horsepower.
   MOTORIZED BICYCLE OR MOPED. Any vehicle having either two tandem wheels or
one wheel in the front and two wheels in the rear, that may be pedaled, and
that is equipped with a helper motor of not more than 50 cubic centimeters
piston displacement that produces not more than one brake horsepower, and is
capable of propelling the vehicle at a speed of no greater than 20 miles per
hour on a level surface. The terms do not include an electric bicycle.
   MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIR. Any self-propelled vehicle designed for, and used by,
a person with a disability and that is incapable of a speed in excess of eight
miles per hour.
   MULTI-WHEEL AGRICULTURAL TRACTOR. A type of agricultural tractor that has
two or more wheels or tires on each side of one axle at the rear of the
tractor, is designed or used for drawing other  vehicles or wheeled machinery,
has no provision for carrying loads independently of the drawn vehicles or
machinery, and is used principally for agricultural purposes.
   NATURAL RESOURCES OFFICER. An officer appointed pursuant to R.C. § 1501.24.
   OPERATE. To cause or have caused movement of a vehicle.
   PARKING or PARKED. The standing of a vehicle upon a street, road, alley,
highway or public ground, whether accompanied or unaccompanied by a driver, but
does not include the temporary standing of a vehicle for the purpose of and
while actually engaged in loading or loading merchandise or passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any natural person afoot. The term includes a personal delivery
device as defined in R.C. § 4511.513 unless the context clearly suggests
otherwise.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, partnership, association or corporation.
   POLE TRAILER. Every trailer or semitrailer attached to the towing vehicle by
means of a reach, pole, or by being boomed or otherwise secured to the towing
vehicle, and ordinarily used for transporting long or irregular shaped loads
such as poles, pipes, or structural members capable, generally, of sustaining
themselves as beams between the supporting connections.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic, or
to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
   PREDICATE MOTOR VEHICLE OR TRAFFIC OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.03, 4511.051, 4511.12, 4511.132,
4511.16, 4511.20, 4511.201, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.213, 4511.22, 4511.23,
4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32,
4511.33, 4511.34, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40,
4511.41, 4511.42, 4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.432, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.451,
4511.452, 4511.46, 4511.47, 4511.48, 4511.481, 4511.49, 4511.50, 4511.511,
4511.53, 4511.54, 4511.55, 4511.56, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59, 4511.60,
4511.61, 4511.64, 4511.66, 4511.661, 4511.68, 4511.70, 4511.701, 4511.71,
4511.711, 4511.712, 4511.713, 4511.72, 4511.73, 4511.763, 4511.771, 4511.78, or
4511.84;
      (2)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.17(A)(2), 4511.51(A) through (D), or
4511.74(A);
      (3)   A violation of any provision of R.C. §§ 4511.01 through 4511.76 for
which no penalty otherwise is provided in the section that contains the
provision violated;
      (4)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.214;
      (5)   A violation of a municipal ordinance that is substantially
equivalent to any section or provision set forth or described in division (1),
(2), (3), or (4) of this definition.
   PRIVATE ROAD OPEN TO PUBLIC TRAVEL. A private toll road or road, including
any adjacent sidewalks that generally run parallel to the road, within a
shopping center, airport, sports arena, or other similar business or recreation
facility that is privately owned but where the public is allowed to travel
without access restrictions. The term includes a gated toll road but does not
include a road within a private gated property where access is restricted at
all times, a parking area, a driving aisle within a parking area, or a private
grade crossing.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership used for
vehicular travel by the owner, and those having express or implied permission
from the owner, but not by other persons.
   PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. Any of the following:
      (1)   Ambulances, including private ambulance companies under contract to
a municipality, township, or county, and private ambulances and nontransport
vehicles bearing license plates issued under R.C. § 4503.49;
      (2)   Motor vehicles used by public law enforcement officers or other
persons sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state;
      (3)   Any motor vehicle when properly identified as required by the
Director of Public Safety, when used in response to fire emergency calls or to
provide emergency medical service to ill or injured persons, and when operated
by a duly qualified person who is a member of a volunteer rescue service or a
volunteer fire department, and who is on duty pursuant to the rules or
directives of that service. The State Fire Marshal shall be designated by the
Director of Public Safety as the certifying agency for all public safety
vehicles described herein;
      (4)   Vehicles used by fire departments, including motor vehicles when
used by volunteer firefighters responding to emergency calls in the fire
department service when identified as required by the Director of Public
Safety;
      (5)   Any vehicle used to transport or provide emergency medical service
to an ill or injured person, when certified as a PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE, shall
be considered such a vehicle when transporting an ill or injured person to a
hospital, regardless of whether such vehicle has already passed a hospital;
      (6)   Vehicles used by the Motor Carrier Enforcement Unit for the
enforcement of orders and rules of the Public Utilities Commission as specified
in R.C. § 5503.34.
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property operating upon rails placed
principally on a private right-of-way.
   RAILROAD SIGN OR SIGNAL. Any sign, signal, or device erected by authority of
a public body or official or by a railroad, and intended to give notice of the
presence of railroad tracks or the approach of a railroad train.
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine or an electric or other motor, with or
without cars coupled thereto, operated by a railroad.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory, not comprising a business district,
fronting on a street or highway, including the street or highway, where, for a
distance of 300 feet or more, the frontage is improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
   RIDESHARING ARRANGEMENT. Includes the transportation of persons in a motor
vehicle where the transportation is incidental to another purpose of a
volunteer driver, and includes RIDESHARING ARRANGEMENTS known as carpools,
vanpools, and buspools.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Either of the following, as the context requires:
      (1)   The right of a vehicle or pedestrian to proceed uninterruptedly in
a lawful manner in the direction in which it, he or she is moving, in
preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching from a different
direction into its, his or her path;
      (2)   A general term denoting land, property, or the interest therein,
usually in the configuration of a strip, acquired for or devoted to
transportation purposes. When used in this context, RIGHT-OF- WAY includes the
roadway, shoulders or berm, ditch, and slopes extending to the right-of-way
limits under the control of the state or local authority.
   ROAD SERVICE VEHICLE. Wreckers, utility repair vehicles, and state, county,
and municipal service vehicles equipped with visual signals by means of
flashing, rotating, or oscillating lights.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, except the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes two or
more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY means any roadway separately, but not
all the roadways collectively.
   RURAL MAIL DELIVERY VEHICLE. Every vehicle used to deliver United States
mail on a rural mail delivery route.
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians, and protected or marked or indicated by adequate
signs so as to be plainly visible at all times.
   SCHOOL BUS. Every bus designed for carrying more than nine passengers which
is owned by a public, private, or governmental agency or institution of
learning, and operated for the transportation of children to or from a school
session or a school function, or owned by a private person and operated for
compensation for the transportation of children to or from a school session or
a school function; provided the term does not include a bus operated by a
municipally owned transportation system, a mass transit company operating
exclusively within the territorial limits of a municipality, or within such
limits and the territorial limits of municipalities immediately contiguous to
the municipality, nor a common passenger carrier certified by the Public
Utilities Commission unless the bus is devoted exclusively to the
transportation of children to and from a school session or a school function,
and the term does not include a van or bus used by a licensed child care center
or type A family child care home to transport children from the child care
center or type A family child care home to a school if the van or bus does not
have more than 15 children in the van or bus at any time.
   SEMITRAILER. Every vehicle designed or used for carrying persons or property
with another and separate motor vehicle so that in operation a part of its own
weight or that of its load, or both, rests upon and is carried by another
vehicle.
   SHARED-USE PATH. A bikeway outside the traveled way and physically separated
from motorized vehicular traffic by an open space or barrier and either within
the highway right-of-way or within an independent alignment. A shared-use path
also may be used by pedestrians, including skaters, joggers, users of manual
and motorized wheelchairs, and other authorized motorized and non-motorized
users. A shared-use path does not include any trail that is intended to be used
primarily for mountain biking, hiking, equestrian use, or other similar uses,
or any other single track or natural surface trail that has historically been
reserved for non-motorized use.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
line of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STATE HIGHWAY. A highway under the jurisdiction of the Department of
Transportation, outside the limits of municipalities, provided that the
authority conferred upon the Director of Transportation in R.C. § 5511.01 to
erect state highway route markers and signs directing traffic shall not be
modified by R.C. §§ 4511.01 through 4511.79 and 4511.99.
   STATE ROUTE. Every highway which is designated with an official state route
number and so marked.
   STOP. When required, means a complete cessation of movement.
   STOP INTERSECTION. Any intersection at one or more entrances of which stop
signs are erected.
   STOPPING or STANDING. When prohibited, means any halting of a vehicle, even
momentarily, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic control device.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
open to the use of the public as a thoroughfare for purposes of vehicular
travel.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every street or highway as provided in R.C. § 4511.65, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   THRUWAY. A through highway whose entire roadway is reserved for through
traffic and on which roadway parking is prohibited.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars, and
other devices, either singly or together, while using for purposes of travel
any highway or private road open to public travel.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE. A flagger, sign, signal, marking, or other device
used to regulate, warn, or guide traffic, placed on, over, or adjacent to a
street, highway, private road open to public travel, pedestrian facility, or
shared-use path by authority of a public agency or official having
jurisdiction, or, in the case of a private road open to public travel, by
authority of the private owner or private official having jurisdiction.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL. Any highway traffic signal by which traffic is
alternately directed to stop and permitted to proceed.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle designed or used for carrying persons or property
wholly on its own structure, and for being drawn by a motor vehicle, including
any vehicle when formed by or operated as a combination of a semitrailer and a
vehicle of the dolly type, such as that commonly known as a trailer dolly, a
vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or agricultural production
materials between a local place of storage or supply and the farm when drawn or
towed on a street or highway at a speed  greater than 25 miles per hour and a
vehicle designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of
storage and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a
street or highway for a distance of more than ten miles or at a speed of more
than 25 miles per hour.
   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle, except trailers and semitrailers, designed and
used to carry property.
   TYPE A FAMILY CHILD CARE HOME. Has the same meaning as set forth in R.C. §
5104.01.
   URBAN DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including any street or
highway which is built up with structures devoted to business, industry, or
dwelling houses situated at intervals of less than 100 feet for a distance of
one-quarter of a mile or more, and the character of the territory is indicated
by official traffic-control devices.
   VEHICLE. Every device, including a motorized bicycle and an electric
bicycle, in, upon, or by which any person or property may be transported or
drawn upon a highway, except that VEHICLE does not include any motorized
wheelchair, any electric personal assistive mobility device, any low- speed
micromobility device, any personal delivery device as defined in R.C. §
4511.513, any device that is moved by power collected from overhead electric
trolley wires or that is used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, or
any device, other than a bicycle, that is moved by human power.
   WASTE COLLECTION VEHICLE. A vehicle used in the collection of garbage,
refuse, trash, or recyclable materials.
   WILDLIFE OFFICER. An officer designated pursuant to R.C. § 1531.13.
(R.C. § 4511.01)
§ 70.02 COMPLIANCE WITH ORDER OF POLICE OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall fail to comply with any lawful order or direction of
any police officer invested with authority to direct, control, or regulate
traffic.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle so as willfully to elude or
flee a police officer after receiving a visible or audible signal from a police
officer to bring the person’s motor vehicle to a stop.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to comply
with an order or signal of a police officer.
      (2)   A violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (3)   Except as provided in divisions (C)(4) and (C)(5) of this section,
a violation of division (B) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (4)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a felony and shall
be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the jury or judge as trier of fact
finds by proof beyond a reasonable doubt that in committing the offense, the
offender was fleeing immediately after the commission of a felony.
      (5)   (a)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a felony and
shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the jury or judge as trier
of fact finds any of the following by proof beyond a reasonable doubt:
            1.   The operation of the motor vehicle by the offender was a
proximate cause of serious physical harm to persons or property.
            2.   The operation of the motor vehicle by the offender caused a
substantial risk of serious physical harm to persons or property.
         (b)   If a police officer pursues an offender who is violating
division (B) of this section and division (C)(5)(a) of this section applies,
the sentencing court, in determining the seriousness of an offender’s conduct
for purposes of sentencing the offender for a violation of division (B) of this
section, shall consider, along with the factors set forth in R.C. §§ 2929.12
and 2929.13 that are required to be considered, all of the following:
            1.   The duration of the pursuit;
            2.   The distance of the pursuit;
            3.   The rate of speed at which the offender operated the motor
vehicle during the pursuit;
            4.   Whether the offender failed to stop for traffic lights or stop
signs during the pursuit;
            5.   The number of traffic lights or stop signs for which the
offender failed to stop during the pursuit;
            6.   Whether the offender operated the motor vehicle during the
pursuit without lighted lights during a time when lighted lights are required;
            7.   Whether the offender committed a moving violation during the
pursuit;
            8.   The number of moving violations the offender committed during
the pursuit;
            9.   Any other relevant factors indicating that the offender’s
conduct is more serious than conduct normally constituting the offense.
   (D)   In addition to any other sanction imposed for a violation of division
(A) of this section, the court shall impose a class five suspension from the
range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(5). If the offender previously has been
found guilty of an offense under this section or under R.C. § 2921.331 or any
other substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, in addition to any other
sanction imposed for the offense, the court shall impose a class one suspension
as described in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(1). The court may grant limited driving
privileges to the offender on a suspension imposed for a misdemeanor violation
of this section as set forth in R.C. § 4510.021. No judge shall suspend any
portion of the suspension under a class one suspension of an offender’s
license, permit, or privilege required by this division.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      MOVING VIOLATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2743.70.
      POLICE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 2921.331(A) - (C), (E), (F))
Cross-reference:
   Resisting arrest, see §
136.08
§ 70.03 EMERGENCY VEHICLES TO PROCEED CAUTIOUSLY PAST RED OR STOP SIGNAL.
   (A)   The driver of any emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call, upon approaching a red or stop signal or any
stop sign, shall slow down as necessary for safety to traffic, but may proceed
cautiously past the red or stop sign or signal with due regard for the safety
of all persons using the street or highway.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.03)
§ 70.04 EXCEPTIONS GENERALLY; EMERGENCY, PUBLIC SAFETY AND CORONER VEHICLES
EXEMPT.
   (A)   The provisions of this traffic code, except for §§
73.01 and
73.011, do not apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles, and other equipment
while actually engaged in work upon the surface of a highway within an area
designated by traffic-control devices, but apply to those persons and vehicles
when traveling to or from such work.
   (B)   The driver of a highway maintenance vehicle owned by this state or any
political subdivision of this state, while the driver is engaged in the
performance of official duties upon a street or highway, provided the highway
maintenance vehicle is equipped with flashing lights and such other markings as
are required by law and such lights are in operation when the driver and
vehicle are so engaged, shall be exempt from criminal prosecution for
violations of R.C. §§ 4511.22, 4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.30,
4511.31, 4511.33, 4511.35, 4511.66, and 4513.02, and R.C. §§ 5577.01 through
5577.09, and any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   (1)   This section does not exempt a driver of a highway maintenance
vehicle from civil liability arising from a violation of R.C. § 4511.22,
4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.33, 4511.35,
4511.66, or 4513.02 or R.C. §§ 5577.01 through 5577.09, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   This section does not exempt a driver of a vehicle who is not a
state employee and who is engaged in the transport of highway maintenance
equipment from criminal liability for a violation of R.C. §§ 5577.01 through
5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   As used in this section, ENGAGED IN THE PERFORMANCE OF OFFICIAL DUTIES
includes driving a highway maintenance vehicle to and from the manufacturer or
vehicle maintenance provider and transporting a highway maintenance vehicle,
equipment, or materials to and from a work location.
(R.C. § 4511.04)
   (E)   The provisions of R.C. §§ 4511.12, 4511.13, 4511.131, 4511.132,
4511.14, 4511.202, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.22, 4511.23, 4511.25, 4511.26,
4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33, 4511.34,
4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40, 4511.41, 4511.42,
4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.432, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59,
4511.60, 4511.61, 4511.62, 4511.66, 4511.68, 4511.681, and 4511.69, and any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, do not apply to the driver of an
emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle if the emergency vehicle or public
safety vehicle is responding to an emergency call, is equipped with and
displaying at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle and if the driver of the vehicles is giving an audible signal by siren,
exhaust whistle, or bell. This section does not relieve the driver of an
emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.041)
   (F)   The provisions of R.C. §§ 4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29,
4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, and
4511.66, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, do not apply to
a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle
in accordance with R.C. § 4513.171 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance. This division does not relieve a coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle from the duty to drive with
due regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.042)
§ 70.05 PERSONS RIDING OR DRIVING ANIMALS UPON ROADWAYS.
   Every person riding, driving, or leading an animal upon a roadway is subject
to the provisions of this traffic code, applicable to the driver of a vehicle,
except those provisions of this traffic code which by their nature are
inapplicable.
(R.C. § 4511.05)
§ 70.06 PROHIBITIONS AGAINST PEDESTRIANS AND SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES ON FREEWAYS.
   (A)   No person, unless otherwise directed by a police officer, shall:
      (1)   As a pedestrian, occupy any space within the limits of the right-
of-way of a freeway, except: in a rest area; on a facility that is separated
from the roadway and shoulders of the freeway and is designed and appropriately
marked for pedestrian use; in the performance of public works or official
duties; as a result of an emergency caused by an accident or breakdown of a
motor vehicle; or to obtain assistance;
      (2)   Occupy any space within the limits of the right-of-way of a
freeway, with: an animal-drawn vehicle; a ridden or led animal; herded animals;
a pushcart; a bicycle, except on a facility that is separated from the roadway
and shoulders of the freeway and is designed and appropriately marked for
bicycle use; an electric bicycle; a bicycle with motor attached; a motor-driven
cycle with a motor which produces not to exceed five brake horsepower; an
agricultural tractor; farm machinery; except in the performance of public works
or official duties.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.051)
Statutory reference:
   Designation of a freeway, see R.C. § 4511.011
§ 70.07 USE OF PRIVATE PROPERTY FOR VEHICULAR TRAVEL.
   The provisions of this traffic code do not prevent the owner of real
property, used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel by permission of
the owner and not as a matter of right, from prohibiting such use or from
requiring additional conditions to those specified in this traffic code, or
otherwise regulating such use as may seem best to the owner.
(R.C. § 4511.08)
§ 70.08 NAMES OF PERSONS DAMAGING REAL PROPERTY BY OPERATION OF VEHICLE TO BE
PROVIDED TO OWNER.
   (A)   As used in this section, MOTOR VEHICLE has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 4501.01.
   (B)   If damage is caused to real property by the operation of a motor
vehicle in, or during the, violation of any section of the Revised Code or of
any municipal ordinance, the law enforcement agency that investigates the case,
upon request of the real property owner, shall provide the owner with the names
of the persons who are charged with the commission of the offense. If a request
for the names is made, the agency shall provide the names as soon as possible
after the persons are charged with the offense.
   (C)   The personnel of law enforcement agencies who act pursuant to division
(B) of this section in good faith are not liable in damages in a civil action
allegedly arising from their actions taken pursuant to that division. Political
subdivisions and the state are not liable in damages in a civil action
allegedly arising from the actions of personnel of their law enforcement
agencies if the personnel have immunity under this division.
(R.C. § 2935.28)
§ 70.09 LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAYS; BARRIERS ALONG; VEHICLES TO ENTER AND LEAVE AT
DESIGNATED INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall cut, injure, remove, or destroy
any fence or other barrier designed and erected to prevent traffic from
entering or leaving a limited access highway without the permission of the
Director of Transportation, except in a case of emergency where life or
property is in danger. No person, firm or corporation shall cause a vehicle of
any character to enter or leave a limited access highway at any point other
than intersections designated by the Director for such purposes, except in a
case of emergency where life or property is in danger.
(R.C. § 3767.201)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 3767.99(D))
§ 70.10 THROUGH HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   All state routes are hereby designated as through highways, provided
that stop signs, yield signs, or traffic-control signals shall be erected at
all intersections with such through highways by the Department of
Transportation as to highways under its jurisdiction and by local authorities
as to highways under their jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this
section. Where two or more state routes that are through highways intersect,
and no traffic-control signal is in operation, stop signs or yield signs shall
be erected at one or more entrances thereto by the Department or by local
authorities having jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this section.
Whenever the Director of Transportation determines on the basis of an
engineering and traffic investigation that stop signs are necessary to stop
traffic on a through highway for safe and efficient operation, nothing in this
section shall be construed to prevent such installations. When circumstances
warrant, the Director also may omit stop signs on roadways intersecting through
highways under his or her jurisdiction. Before the Director either installs or
removes a stop sign under this division, he or she shall give notice, in
writing, of that proposed action to the affected local authority at least 30
days before installing or removing the stop sign.
   (B)   Other streets or highways, or portions thereof, are hereby designated
as through highways if they are within the municipality, if they have a
continuous length of more than one mile between the limits of the street or
highway or portion thereof, and if they have stop or yield signs or traffic-
control signals at the entrances of the majority of intersecting streets or
highways. For purposes of this section, the limits of the street or highway, or
portion thereof, shall be the municipal corporation line, the physical terminus
of the street or highway, or any point on the streets or highway at which
vehicular traffic thereon is required by regulatory signs to stop or yield to
traffic on the intersecting street, provided, that in residence districts, the
municipality may by ordinance designate such street or highway, or portion
thereof, not to be a through highway and thereafter the affected residence
district shall be indicated by official traffic-control devices. Where two or
more through highways designated under this division intersect and no traffic-
control signal is in operation, stop signs or yield signs shall be erected at
one or more entrances thereto by the Department or by local authorities having
jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this section.
   (C)   The Department or local authorities having jurisdiction need not erect
stop signs at intersections they find to be so constructed as to permit traffic
to safely enter a through highway without coming to a stop. Signs shall be
erected at such intersections indicating that the operator of a vehicle shall
yield the right-of-way to or merge with all traffic proceeding on the through
highway.
   (D)   Local authorities, with reference to highways under their
jurisdiction, may designate additional through highways, and shall erect stop
signs, yield signs, or traffic-control signals at all streets and highways
intersecting such through highways, or may designate any intersection as a stop
or yield intersection, and shall erect like signs at one or more entrances to
the intersection.
(R.C. § 4511.65)
§ 70.11 OFFICER MAY REMOVE IGNITION KEY.
   A law enforcement officer may remove the ignition key left in the ignition
switch of an unlocked and unattended motor vehicle parked on a street or
highway. The officer removing the key shall place notification upon the vehicle
detailing his or her name and badge number, the place where the key may be
reclaimed, and the procedure for reclaiming the key. The key shall be returned
to the owner of the motor vehicle upon presentation of proof of ownership.
(R.C. § 4549.05)
§ 70.12 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES AFTER ACCIDENTS.
   (A)   If a motor vehicle accident occurs on any highway, public street, or
other property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel and if any
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property that has been damaged or spilled as
a result of the motor vehicle accident is blocking the highway, street, or
other property or is otherwise endangering public safety, a public safety
official may do either of the following without the consent of the owner but
with the approval of the law enforcement agency conducting any investigation of
the accident:
      (1)   Remove, or order the removal of, the motor vehicle if the motor
vehicle is unoccupied, cargo, or personal property from the portion of the
highway, public street, or property ordinarily used for vehicular travel on the
highway, public street, or other property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel.
      (2)   If the motor vehicle is a commercial motor vehicle, allow the owner
or operator of the vehicle the opportunity to arrange for the removal of the
motor vehicle within a period of time specified by the public safety official.
If the public safety official determines that the motor vehicle cannot be
removed within the specified period of time, the public safety official shall
remove or order the removal of the motor vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, the
Department of Transportation, any employee of the Department of Transportation,
or a public safety official who authorizes or participates in the removal of
any unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property as authorized by
division (A) of this section, regardless of whether the removal is executed by
a private towing service, is not liable for civil damages for any injury,
death, or loss to person or property that results from the removal of that
unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property. Further, except as
provided in division (B)(2) of this section, if a public safety official
authorizes, employs, or arranges to have a private towing service remove any
unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property as authorized by division
(A) of this section, that private towing service is not liable for civil
damages for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that results from
the removal of that unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
         (a)   Any person or entity involved in the removal of an unoccupied
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property pursuant to division (A) of this
section if that removal causes or contributes to the release of a hazardous
material or to structural damage to the roadway;
         (b)   A private towing service that was not authorized, employed, or
arranged by a public safety official to remove an unoccupied motor vehicle,
cargo, or personal property under this section;
         (c)   Except as provided in division (B)(2)(d) of this section, a
private towing service that was authorized, employed, or arranged by a public
safety official to perform the removal of the unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo,
or personal property but the private towing service performed the removal in a
negligent manner;
         (d)   A private towing service that was authorized, employed, or
arranged by a public safety official to perform the removal of the unoccupied
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property that was endangering public safety
but the private towing service performed the removal in a reckless manner.
   (C)   As used in divisions (A) and (B) of this section:
      HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.232.
      PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICIAL. Means any of the following:
         (a)   The sheriff of the county, or the chief of a law enforcement
agency in the municipal corporation, township, port authority, conservancy
district, university campus police department, park district police force, or
township or joint police district, in which the accident occurred;
         (b)   A state highway patrol trooper;
         (c)   The chief of the fire department having jurisdiction where the
accident occurred;
         (d)   A duly authorized subordinate acting on behalf of an official
specified in divisions (a) to (c) of this definition;
         (e)   A natural resources officer or a wildlife officer.
(R.C. § 4513.66)
   (D)   If a towing service is removing a motor vehicle, and the removal was
not authorized under R.C. § 4513.60, 4513.601, 4513.61, or 4513.66, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, prior to removing the motor
vehicle, the towing service shall provide a written estimate of the price for
the removal to the operator of the motor vehicle, if requested.
   (E)   The towing service shall ensure that any estimate provided under
division (D) of this section includes the fees, services to be rendered, and
destination of the vehicle.
   (F)   If a towing service fails to provide a written estimate as required by
this section, the towing service shall not charge fees for the towing and
storage of the motor vehicle that exceed 25% of any applicable fees established
by the public utilities commission in rules adopted under R.C. § 4921.25(B)(4)
or, if the vehicle was towed within a municipal corporation that has
established vehicle removal and storage fees, 25% of the fees established by
the municipal corporation.
   (G)   Any storage facility that accepts towed vehicles shall conspicuously
post a notice at the entrance to the storage facility that states the
limitation on fees established under division (F) of this section.
(R.C. § 4513.68)
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.20 OBEYING TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   No pedestrian or driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
instructions of any traffic-control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code, unless at the time otherwise directed by a
police officer.
      (2)   No provision of this traffic code for which signs are required
shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the
alleged violation, an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently
legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular
section of this traffic code does not state that signs are required, that
section shall be effective even though no signs are erected or in place.
(R.C. § 4511.12(A))
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, any operator
of a commercial motor vehicle, upon approaching a scale location established
for the purpose of determining the weight of the vehicle and its load, shall
comply with any traffic control device or the order of a peace officer
directing the vehicle to proceed to be weighed or otherwise inspected.
      (2)   Any operator of a commercial motor vehicle, upon bypassing a scale
location in accordance with division (C) of this section, shall comply with an
order of a peace officer to stop the vehicle to verify the use and operation of
an electronic clearance device.
   (C)   Any operator of a commercial motor vehicle that is equipped with an
electronic clearance device authorized by the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol under R.C. § 4549.081 may bypass a scale location, regardless of
the instruction of a traffic control device to enter the scale facility, if
either of the following apply:
      (1)   The in-cab transponder displays a green light or other affirmative
visual signal and also sounds an affirmative audible signal;
      (2)   Any other criterion established by the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol is met.
   (D)   Any peace officer may order the operator of a commercial motor vehicle
that bypasses a scale location to stop the vehicle to verify the use and
operation of an electronic clearance device.
   (E)   As used in this section, COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE means any
combination of vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating or an actual gross
vehicle weight of more than 10,000 pounds if the vehicle is used in interstate
or intrastate commerce to transport property and also means any vehicle that is
transporting hazardous materials for which placarding is required pursuant to
49 C.F.R. Parts 100 through 180.
(R.C. § 4511.121(A)-(C), (E))
   (F)   No person shall use an electronic clearance device if the device or
its use is not in compliance with rules of the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol.
(R.C. § 4549.081(B))
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree. If
the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting activity
is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the offender is
subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.12(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (B) of this
section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of division (B)
of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender commits the offense while
distracted and the distracting activity is a contributing factor to the
commission of the offense, the offender is subject to the additional fine
established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.121(D))
      (3)   Whoever violates division (F) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the
third degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.081(C))
Statutory reference:
   Traffic-control devices to conform to the state manual and specifications,
see R.C. § 4511.11
   Placing traffic-control devices on state highways, permission required, see
R.C. § 4511.10
   Uniform system of traffic-control devices, see R.C. § 4511.09
§ 70.21 SIGNAL LIGHTS.
   Highway traffic signal indications for vehicles and pedestrians shall have
the following meanings:
   (A)   Steady green signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal indication
is permitted to proceed straight through or turn right or left or make a u-turn
movement except as such movement is modified by a lane-use sign, turn
prohibition sign, lane marking, roadway design, separate turn signal
indication, or other traffic control device. Such vehicular traffic, including
vehicles turning right or left or making a u-turn movement, shall yield the
right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
movement to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching
from the opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard
during the time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the
intersection.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal indication, displayed
alone or in combination with another signal indication, is permitted to
cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by such
arrow, or such other movement as is permitted by other indications displayed at
the same time. Such vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left
or making a u-turn movement, shall yield the right-of-way to both of the
following:
         (a)   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
         (b)   Other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (3)   (a)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication,
as provided in R.C. § 4511.14, pedestrians facing a circular green signal
indication are permitted to proceed across the roadway within any marked or
unmarked associated crosswalk. The pedestrian shall yield the right-of- way to
vehicles lawfully within the intersection or so close as to create an immediate
hazard at the time that the green signal indication is first displayed.
         (b)   Pedestrians facing a green arrow signal indication, unless
otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or other traffic control
device, shall not cross the roadway.
   (B)   Steady yellow signal indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular yellow signal indication
is thereby warned that the related green movement or the related flashing arrow
movement is being terminated or that a steady red signal indication will be
exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter the
intersection. The provisions governing vehicular operation under the movement
being terminated shall continue to apply while the steady circular yellow
signal indication is displayed.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow arrow signal indication is
thereby warned that the related green arrow movement or the related flashing
arrow movement is being terminated. The provisions governing vehicular
operation under the movement being terminated shall continue to apply while the
steady yellow arrow signal indication is displayed.
      (3)   Pedestrians facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow signal
indication, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication as
provided in R.C. § 4511.14 or other traffic control device, shall not start to
cross the roadway.
   (C)   Steady red signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular red signal
indication, unless entering the intersection to make another movement permitted
by another signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line; but if
there is no stop line, traffic shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the
near side of the intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, then before
entering the intersection; and shall remain stopped until a signal indication
to proceed is displayed except as provided in divisions (C)(1), (C)(2), and (C)
(3) of this section.
         (b)   Except when a traffic control device is in place prohibiting a
turn on red or a steady red arrow signal indication is displayed, vehicular
traffic facing a steady circular red signal indication is permitted, after
stopping, to enter the intersection to turn right, or to turn left from a one-
way street into a one-way street. The right to proceed with the turn shall be
subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop at a stop
sign.
      (2)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow signal indication
shall not enter the intersection to make the movement indicated by the arrow
and, unless entering the intersection to make another movement permitted by
another signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line; but if
there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, then before entering the
intersection; and shall remain stopped until a signal indication or other
traffic control device permitting the movement indicated by such red arrow is
displayed.
         (b)   When a traffic control device is in place permitting a turn on a
steady red arrow signal indication, vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow
indication is permitted, after stopping, to enter the intersection to turn
right, or to turn left from a one-way street into a one-way street. The right
to proceed with the turn shall be limited to the direction indicated by the
arrow and shall be subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a
stop at a stop sign.
      (3)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication as
provided in R.C. § 4511.14 or other traffic control device, pedestrians facing
a steady circular red or steady red arrow signal indication shall not enter the
roadway.
      (4)   Local authorities by ordinance, or the Director of Transportation
on state highways, may prohibit a right or a left turn against a steady red
signal at any intersection, which shall be effective when signs giving notice
thereof are posted at the intersection.
   (D)   Flashing green signal indication. A flashing green signal indication
has no meaning and shall not be used.
   (E)   Flashing yellow signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing
a flashing circular yellow signal indication, is permitted to cautiously enter
the intersection to proceed straight through or turn right or left or make a u-
turn movement except as such movement is modified by lane-use signs, turn
prohibition signs, lane markings, roadway design, separate turn signal
indications, or other traffic control devices. Such vehicular traffic,
including vehicles turning right or left or making a u-turn movement, shall
yield the right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the
time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the intersection.
      (2)   (a)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing
a flashing yellow arrow signal indication, displayed alone or in combination
with another signal indication, is permitted to cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by such arrow, or other such
movement as is permitted by other signal indications displayed at the same
time. Such vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left or
making a u-turn, shall yield the right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the
time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the intersection.
      (3)   Pedestrians facing any flashing yellow signal indication at an
intersection, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or
other traffic control device, are permitted to proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk. Pedestrians shall yield the
right-of- way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing yellow signal indication is first displayed.
      (4)   When a flashing circular yellow signal indication is displayed as a
beacon to supplement another traffic control device, road users are notified
that there is a need to pay additional attention to the message contained
thereon or that the regulatory or warning requirements of the other traffic
control device, which might not be applicable at all times, are currently
applicable.
   (F)   Flashing red signal indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing a
flashing circular red signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line; but if there is no stop line, before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, at
the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering the
intersection. The right to proceed shall be subject to the provisions that are
applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing any flashing red signal indication at an
intersection, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or
other traffic control device, are permitted to proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk. Pedestrians shall yield the
right-of- way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing red signal indication is first displayed.
      (3)   When a flashing circular red signal indication is displayed as a
beacon to supplement another traffic control device, road users are notified
that there is a need to pay additional attention to the message contained
thereon or that the regulatory requirements of the other traffic control
device, which might not be applicable at all times, are currently applicable.
Use of this signal indication shall be limited to supplementing stop, do not
enter, or wrong way signs, and to applications where compliance with the
supplemented traffic control device requires a stop at a designated point.
   (G)   In the event an official traffic-control signal is erected and
maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
section shall be applicable except as to those provisions which by their nature
can have no application. Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking
on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of
any such sign or marking the stop shall be made at the signal.
   (H)   This section does not apply at railroad grade crossings. Conduct of
drivers of vehicles approaching railroad grade crossings shall be governed by
R.C. §§ 4511.61 and 4511.62.
(R.C. § 4511.13)
§ 70.22 SIGNALS OVER REVERSIBLE LANES.
   The meanings of lane-use control signal indications are as follows:
   (A)   A steady downward green arrow. A road user is permitted to drive in
the lane over which the arrow signal indication is located.
   (B)   A steady yellow “X”. A road user is to prepare to vacate the lane over
which the signal indication is located because a lane control change is being
made to a steady red “X” signal indication.
   (C)   A steady white two-way left-turn arrow. A road user is permitted to
use a lane over which the signal indication is located for a left turn, but not
for through travel, with the understanding that common use of the lane by
oncoming road users for left turns also is permitted.
   (D)   A steady white one-way left-turn arrow. A road user is permitted to
use a lane over which the signal indication is located for a left turn, without
opposing turns in the same lane, but not for through travel.
   (E)   A steady red “X”. A road user is not permitted to use the lane over
which the signal indication is located and that this signal indication shall
modify accordingly the meaning of other traffic controls present.
(R.C. § 4511.131)
§ 70.23 AMBIGUOUS OR NON-WORKING TRAFFIC SIGNALS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle who approaches an intersection where traffic
is controlled by traffic control signals shall do all of the following if the
signal facing the driver exhibits no colored lights or colored lighted arrows,
exhibits a combination of such lights or arrows that fails to clearly indicate
the assignment of right-of-way, or, if the vehicle is a bicycle or an electric
bicycle, the signals are otherwise malfunctioning due to the failure of a
vehicle detector to detect the presence of the bicycle or electric bicycle:
      (1)   Stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, stop before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or, if none, stop
before entering the intersection;
      (2)   Yield the right-of-way to all vehicles in the intersection or
approaching on an intersecting road, if the vehicles will constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection or junction of roadways;
      (3)   Exercise ordinary care while proceeding through the intersection.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.132)
§ 70.24 PEDESTRIAN-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian-control signals exhibiting the words “walk” or
“don’t walk,” or the symbol of a walking person or an upraised palm are in
place, these signals shall indicate the following instructions:
   (A)   A steady walking person signal indication, which symbolizes “walk”,
means that a pedestrian facing the signal indication is permitted to start to
cross the roadway in the direction of the signal indication, possibly in
conflict with turning vehicles. The pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the walking person
signal indication is first shown.
   (B)   A flashing upraised hand signal indication, which symbolizes “don't
walk”, means that a pedestrian shall not start to cross the roadway in the
direction of the signal indication, but that any pedestrian who has already
started to cross on a steady walking person signal indication shall proceed to
the far side of the traveled way of the street or highway, unless otherwise
directed by a traffic control device to proceed only to the median of a divided
highway or only to some other island or pedestrian refuge area.
   (C)   A steady upraised hand signal indication means that a pedestrian shall
not enter the roadway in the direction of the signal indication.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to invalidate the continued
use of pedestrian control signals utilizing the word “wait” if those signals
were installed prior to March 28, 1985.
   (E)   A flashing walking person signal indication has no meaning and shall
not be used.
(R.C. § 4511.14)
§ 70.25 (RESERVED)
§ 70.26 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS AND SIGNALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view of
any highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which purports to
be, is an imitation of, or resembles a traffic-control device or railroad sign
or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or hides from
view or interferes with the effectiveness of any traffic-control device or any
railroad sign or signal, and no person shall place or maintain, nor shall any
public authority permit, upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing
thereon any commercial advertising. This section does not prohibit either the
erection upon private property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful
directional information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for traffic-
control devices, or the erection upon private property of traffic-control
devices by the owner of real property in accordance with R.C. §§ 4511.211 and
4511.432.
      (2)   Every prohibited sign, signal, marking, or device is a public
nuisance, and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway may remove the
same or cause it to be removed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.16)
§ 70.27 ALTERATION, DEFACEMENT, OR REMOVAL PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, without lawful authority, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly move, deface, damage, destroy, or otherwise improperly
tamper with any traffic-control device, any railroad sign or signal, or any
inscription, shield, or insignia on the device, sign, or signal, or any part of
the device, sign, or signal;
      (2)   Knowingly drive upon or over any freshly applied pavement marking
material on the surface of a roadway while the marking material is in an
undried condition, and is marked by flags, markers, signs, or other devices
intended to protect it;
      (3)   Knowingly move, damage, destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper
with a manhole cover.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
third degree. If a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of this section
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of
this section causes serious physical harm to property that is owned, leased, or
controlled by a state or local authority, the offender is guilty of a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within
one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses,
whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.17)
§ 70.28 UNAUTHORIZED POSSESSION OR SALE OF DEVICES.
   (A)   As used in this section, TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE means any sign,
traffic control signal or other device conforming to and placed or erected in
accordance with the manual adopted under R.C. § 4511.09 by authority of a
public body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic, including signs denoting the names of streets and
highways, but does not mean any pavement marking.
   (B)   No individual shall buy or otherwise possess, or sell, a traffic
control device, except when one of the following applies:
      (1)   In the course of the individual’s employment by the state or a
local authority for the express or implied purpose of manufacturing, providing,
erecting, moving or removing such a traffic control device;
      (2)   In the course of the individual’s employment by any manufacturer of
traffic control devices other than a state or local authority;
      (3)   For the purpose of demonstrating the design and function of a
traffic control device to state or local officials;
      (4)   When the traffic control device has been purchased from the state
or a local authority at a sale of property that is no longer needed or is unfit
for use; or
      (5)   When the traffic control device has been properly purchased from a
manufacturer for use on private property and the person possessing the device
has a sales receipt for the device or other acknowledgment of sale issued by
the manufacturer.
   (C)   This section does not preclude, and shall not be construed as
precluding, prosecution for theft in violation of R.C. § 2913.02, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or for receiving stolen property
in violation of R.C. § 2913.51, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.18)
§ 70.29 SIGNAL PREEMPTION DEVICES; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall possess a portable signal preemption device.
      (2)   No person shall use a portable signal preemption device to affect
the operation of a traffic- control device.
   (B)   Division (A)(1) of this section does not apply to any of the following
persons and division (A)(2) of this section does not apply to any of the
following persons when responding to an emergency call:
      (1)   A peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 109.71(A)(1), (A)(12), (A)
(14), or (A)(19);
      (2)   A state highway patrol officer;
      (3)   A person while occupying a public safety vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 4511.01(E)(1), (E)(3), or (E)(4).
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   As used in this section, PORTABLE SIGNAL PREEMPTION DEVICE means a
device that, if activated by a person, is capable of changing a traffic-control
signal to green out of sequence.
(R.C. § 4511.031)
§ 70.98 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Effective immediately, the offenses listed in division (B) below may
be satisfied and resolved by the execution of a guilty plea, a waiver of court
appearance and a payment to the village of the sums set forth for the various
offenses listed. This waiver system shall be subject to the citing officer's
permission to so pay the fine. If the officer stipulates that the defendant
must appear in Mayor's court, then the waiver system specified herein shall not
be available to a defendant. The utilization of the traffic fine waiver system
shall be subject to all rules and regulations promulgated by the Mayor in
connection with the conduct and operation of the Mayor's court, and the fines
set forth in division (B) below shall be paid pursuant to such rules and
regulations.
   (B)   Bond schedule.  
      (1)   There is hereby established the following schedule with respect to
bonds which may be required of defendants.
 
Traffic Misdemeanor                                        Bond   Deposit
Vehicular homicide (misd.)                                 $3,500 $360
DUI/BAC                                                    $1,500 $160
Suspended Operator's License or Revoked License, Hit-Skip, $1,500 $160
willful fleeing and drag racing
All other traffic misdemeanors                             $ 750  $85
 
      (2)   In traffic misdemeanors when a case has more than one count, the
applicable bond shall be on the count with the highest bond.
   (C)   Mayor's court costs. All state-mandated costs shall be paid with each
case number. This amount is currently $34 on each “moving violation” case
number, but is subject to immediate change should the State of Ohio mandate a
higher cost per case. Local court costs are $46 per case. Of the total amount
collected as court costs per case number and retained by the village, the sum
of $9 shall be paid to the “Alcohol and Chemical Substance Education and
Prevention Fund”, to be used only for the purpose of educating children and
adolescents regarding alcohol and chemical substance abuse and traffic safety.
As used herein, a “moving violation” has the same meaning as set forth in R.C.
§ 4510.01(E).
   (D)   Minor Misdemeanor Violation Bureau schedule.
      (1)   Pursuant to Traffic Rule 13 of Title 45 of the Ohio Revised Code,
it is hereby ordered that effective immediately, persons upon whom minor
misdemeanor citations, notices or summonses have
been served by any lawfully authorized police officer may, within seven days
after the date of issuance of such citation, notice or summons, at their
option:
         (a)   Appear personally at the Violation Bureau, sign a guilty plea
and waiver of trial provision and pay the total fine as listed in Exhibit A of
Ordinance 36, passed June 7, 2007, or
         (b)   Sign the guilty plea and waiver of trial provision and mail a
check, money order, or certified check for the total fine to the Violation
Bureau.
      (2)   A remittance by mail of the fine to the Minor Misdemeanor Violation
Bureau shall constitute a plea of guilty and waiver of trial whether or not the
guilty pleas and waiver of trial provisions are signed by the defendant. Any
traffic waiver eligible for disposition in the Minor Misdemeanor Violation
Bureau, which is mailed to and received by the Bureau, may be accepted by the
Bureau so long as a warrant has not been issued on that traffic citation.
   (E)   Waiver schedule. The schedule listed in Exhibit A of Ordinance 36,
passed June 7, 2007, shall constitute the fines which shall be paid to the
Violations Bureau by those eligible for waiver.
(Ord. 22-1994, passed 5-18-94; Am. Ord. 52, passed 11-7-01; Am. Ord. 26, passed
6-5-02; Am. Ord. 10, passed 3-12-07; Am. Ord. 86, passed 10-1-08)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this traffic code, inclusive of
Chapters
70 through
77 of these Codified Ordinances, for which no penalty otherwise is provided in
the section violated is guilty of one of the following:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this
section, a minor misdemeanor;
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
      (3)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more predicate motor vehicle or
traffic offenses, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (B)   Violations committed while distracted.
      (1)   As used in this section and each section referenced in division (B)
(2) of this section, all of the following apply:
         (a)   DISTRACTED means doing either of the following while operating a
vehicle:
            1.   Using an electronic wireless communications device, as defined
in §
72.090, in violation of that section.
            2.   Engaging in any activity that is not necessary to the
operation of a vehicle and impairs, or reasonably would be expected to impair,
the ability of the operator to drive the vehicle safely.
         (b)   DISTRACTED does not include operating a motor vehicle while
wearing an earphone or earplug over or in both ears at the same time. A person
who so wears earphones or earplugs may be charged with a violation of §
72.085 or R.C. § 4511.84.
         (c)   DISTRACTED does not include conducting any activity while
operating a utility service vehicle or a vehicle for or on behalf of a utility,
provided that the driver of the vehicle is acting in response to an emergency,
power outage, or a circumstance affecting the health or safety of individuals.
         As used in division (B)(1)(c) of this section:
            1.   UTILITY means an entity specified in division (A), (C), (D),
(E), or (G) of R.C. § 4905.03.
            2.   UTILITY SERVICE VEHICLE means a vehicle owned or operated by a
utility.
      (2)   If an offender violates any provision of this Traffic Code,
inclusive of Chapters 70 through 77 of these Codified Ordinances, or R.C. §§
4511.03, 4511.051, 4511.12, 4511.121, 4511.132, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.213,
4511.22, 4511.23, 4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30,
4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33, 4511.34, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38,
4511.39, 4511.40, 4511.41, 4511.42, 4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.44, 4511.441,
4511.451, 4511.46, 4511.47, 4511.54, 4511.55, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59,
4511.60, 4511.61, 4511.64, 4511.71, 4511.711, 4511.712, 4511.713, 4511.72, or
4511.73 while distracted and the distracting activity is a contributing factor
to the commission of the violation, the offender is subject to the applicable
penalty for the violation and, notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28, is subject to an
additional fine of not more than $100 as follows:
         (a)   1.   Subject to Traffic Rule 13, if a law enforcement officer
issues an offender a ticket, citation, or summons for a violation of any of the
aforementioned sections of this Traffic Code or the Revised Code that indicates
that the offender was distracted while committing the violation and that the
distracting activity was a contributing factor to the commission of the
violation, the offender may enter a written plea of guilty and waive the
offender's right to contest the ticket, citation, or summons in a trial
provided that the offender pays the total amount of the fine established for
the violation and pays the additional fine of $100.
            2.   In lieu of payment of the additional fine of $100, the
offender instead may elect to attend a distracted driving safety course, the
duration and contents of which shall be established by the Ohio Director of
Public Safety. If the offender attends and successfully completes the course,
the offender shall be issued written evidence that the offender successfully
completed the course. The offender shall be required to pay the total amount of
the fine established for the violation, but shall not be required to pay the
additional fine of $100, so long as the offender submits to the court both the
offender's payment in full and such written evidence.
         (b)   1.   If the offender appears in person to contest the ticket,
citation, or summons in a trial and the offender pleads guilty to or is
convicted of the violation, the court, in addition to all other penalties
provided by law, may impose the applicable penalty for the violation and may
impose the additional fine of not more than $100.
            2.   If the court imposes upon the offender the applicable penalty
for the violation and an additional fine of not more than $100, the court shall
inform the offender that, in lieu of payment of the additional fine of not more
than $100, the offender instead may elect to attend the distracted driving
safety course described in division (B)(2)(a) of this section. If the offender
elects the course option and attends and successfully completes the course, the
offender shall be issued written evidence that the offender successfully
completed the course. The offender shall be required to pay the total amount of
the fine established for the violation, but shall not be required to pay the
additional fine of not more than $100, so long as the offender submits to the
court the offender's payment and such written evidence.
      (3)   If a law enforcement officer issues an offender a ticket, citation,
or summons for a violation of any of the sections of this Traffic Code or the
Revised Code listed in division (B) of this section that indicates that the
offender was distracted while committing the violation and that the distracting
activity was a contributing factor to the commission of the violation, the
officer shall do both of the following:
         (a)   Report the issuance of the ticket, citation, or summons to the
officer's law enforcement agency;
         (b)   Ensure that such report indicates the offender's race.
(Ord. 2023-34, passed 5-3-23)
Cross-reference:
   Imposing sentence for misdemeanor, see §
130.18
   Multiple sentences, see §
130.19
Statutory reference:
   "Distracted" defined; violations committed while distracted, see R.C. §
4511.991
   Penalty, see R.C. § 4511.99
   Reimbursement for costs of confinement, see R.C. §§ 2929.36 et seq.
CHAPTER 71: LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
Motor Vehicle Licensing
   
71.01   Display of license plates or validation stickers; registration
   
71.02   Improper use of noncommercial motor vehicle
   
71.03   Operating motor vehicle ordered immobilized; forfeiture
   
71.04   Operation or sale without certificate of title
   
71.05   Display of certificate of registration
   
71.06   Use of unauthorized plates
   
71.07   Operating without dealer or manufacturer license plates
Driver’s Licenses
   
71.20   Prohibited acts
   
71.21   Permitting minor to operate vehicle prohibited; temporary instruction
permit; probationary license
   
71.22   License required as driver or commercial driver on public or private
property; nonresident exemption
   
71.23   Employment of a minor to operate a taxicab prohibited
   
71.24   Restriction against owner lending vehicle for use of another
   
71.25   Suspension of driver’s licenses; license suspended by court of record
   
71.26   Display of license
   
71.27   Prohibition against false statements
   
71.28   Driving under suspension or in violation of license restriction
   
71.29   Operating motor vehicle without valid license
   
71.30   Driving under OVI suspension
   
71.31   Driving under financial responsibility law suspension or cancellation
   
71.32   Failure to reinstate license
 
   
71.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Commercial driver’s licenses, see R.C. Chapter 4506
   Driver’s licenses, see R.C. Chapter 4507
   Motor vehicle licensing, see R.C. Chapter 4504
   Municipal motor vehicle license tax, see R.C. § 4504.06
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
   Proof of financial responsibility required; civil penalties; peace officers
as agents of Registrar of Motor Vehicles; procedures and rules, see R.C. §§
4509.101 et seq.
   Suspension and revocation of driver’s licenses, see R.C. Chapter 4510
   Suspension of driver’s licenses; municipal power to suspend for a period not
to exceed time permitted or required by state law, see R.C. § 4510.05
MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSING
§ 71.01 DISPLAY OF LICENSE PLATES OR VALIDATION STICKERS; REGISTRATION.
   (A)   (1)   No person who is the owner or operator of a motor vehicle shall
fail to display in plain view on the rear of the motor vehicle a license plate
that displays the distinctive number and registration mark assigned to the
motor vehicle by the Ohio Director of Public Safety, including any county
identification sticker and any validation sticker when required by and issued
under R.C. §§ 4503.19 and 4503.191. However, a commercial tractor shall display
the license plate on the front of the commercial tractor.
      (2)   The license plate shall be securely fastened so as not to swing,
and shall not be covered by any material that obstructs its visibility.
      (3)   No person to whom a temporary motor vehicle license registration
has been issued for the use of a motor vehicle under R.C. § 4503.182, and no
operator of that motor vehicle, shall fail to display the temporary motor
vehicle license registration in plain view from the rear of the vehicle either
in the rear window or on an external rear surface of the motor vehicle.
      (4)   No person shall cover a temporary motor vehicle license
registration by any material that obstructs its visibility.
(R.C. § 4503.21(A))
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by R.C. §§ 4503.103, 4503.107, 4503.173,
4503.41, 4503.43, and 4503.46, no person who is the owner or chauffeur of a
motor vehicle operated or driven upon the public roads or highways shall fail
to file annually the application for registration or to pay the tax therefor.
(R.C. § 4503.11(A))
   (C)   (1)   Within 30 days of becoming a resident of this state, any person
who owns a motor vehicle operated or driven upon the public roads or highways
shall register the vehicle in this state. If such a person fails to register a
vehicle owned by the person, the person shall not operate any motor vehicle in
this state under a license issued by another state.
      (2)   For purposes of division (C)(1) of this section, RESIDENT means any
person to whom any of the following applies:
         (a)   The person maintains their principal residence in this state and
does not reside in this state as a result of the person’s active service in the
United States armed forces.
         (b)   The person is determined by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles to
be a resident in accordance with standards adopted by the Registrar under R.C.
§ 4507.01.
(R.C. § 4503.111(A), (C))
   (D)   Upon the transfer of ownership of a motor vehicle, the registration of
the motor vehicle expires, and the original owner immediately shall remove the
license plates from the motor vehicle, except as otherwise provided in R.C. §
4503.12.
(R.C. § 4503.12(A))
   (E)   No person shall operate or drive upon the highways of this
municipality a motor vehicle acquired from a former owner who has registered
the motor vehicle, while the motor vehicle displays the distinctive number or
identification mark assigned to it upon its original registration.
(R.C. § 4549.11(A))
   (F)   No person who is the owner of a motor vehicle and a resident of this
state shall operate or drive the motor vehicle upon the highways of this
municipality while it displays a distinctive number or identification mark
issued by or under the authority of another state, without complying with the
laws of this state relating to the registration and identification of motor
vehicles.
(R.C. § 4549.12(A))
   (G)   (1)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   The offenses established under division (A) of this section are
strict liability offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of
these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be construed to imply
that any other offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability,
is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. § 4503.21(B), (C))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4503.11(D))
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   The offense established under division (G)(3)(a) of this section
is a strict liability offense and strict liability is a culpable mental state
for purposes of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of this offense as a strict
liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
(R.C. § 4503.111(B))
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4503.12(D))
      (5)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of
operation of a motor vehicle bearing license plates or an identification mark
issued to another, a minor misdemeanor on a first offense and a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.11(B))
      (6)   Whoever violates division (F) of this section is guilty of illegal
operation by a resident of this state of a motor vehicle bearing the
distinctive number or identification mark issued by a foreign jurisdiction, a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.12(B))
§ 71.02 IMPROPER USE OF NONCOMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall use a motor vehicle registered as a noncommercial
motor vehicle for other than the purposes set forth in R.C. § 4501.01.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 4503.05)
§ 71.03 OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE ORDERED IMMOBILIZED; FORFEITURE.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or permit the operation of a
motor vehicle upon any public or private property used by the public for
vehicular travel or parking knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that
the motor vehicle has been ordered immobilized pursuant to an immobilization
order issued under R.C. § 4503.233.
   (B)   A motor vehicle that is operated by a person during a violation of
division (A) of this section shall be criminally forfeited to the state in
accordance with the procedures contained in R.C. § 4503.234.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 4503.236)
§ 71.04 OPERATION OR SALE WITHOUT CERTIFICATE OF TITLE.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate in this municipality a motor vehicle for which a
certificate of title is required without having that certificate in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 4505 or, if a physical certificate of title has not been
issued for a motor vehicle, operate the motor vehicle in this state knowing
that the ownership information relating to the vehicle has not been entered
into the automated title processing system by a Clerk of a Court of Common
Pleas;
      (2)   Display or display for sale or sell as a dealer or acting on behalf
of a dealer, a motor vehicle without having obtained a manufacturer’s or
importer’s certificate, a certificate of title, or an assignment of a
certificate of title for it as provided in R.C. Chapter 4505;
      (3)   Fail to surrender any certificate of title or any certificate of
registration or license plates upon cancellation of the same by the Registrar
of Motor Vehicles and notice of the cancellation as prescribed in R.C. Chapter
4505;
      (4)   Fail to surrender the certificate of title to a Clerk of a Court of
Common Pleas as provided in R.C. Chapter 4505 in case of the destruction or
dismantling or change of a motor vehicle in such respect that it is not the
motor vehicle described in the certificate of title;
      (5)   Violate any rules adopted pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4505;
      (6)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapters 4505 and 4517, sell
at wholesale a motor vehicle ownership of which is not evidenced by an Ohio
certificate of title, or the current certificate of title issued for the motor
vehicle, or the manufacturer’s certificate of origin, and all title assignments
that evidence the seller’s ownership of the motor vehicle, and an odometer
disclosure statement that complies with R.C. § 4505.06 and subchapter IV of the
“Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act,” 86 Stat. 961 (1972), 15
U.S.C. § 1981;
      (7)   Operate in this state a motor vehicle knowing that the certificate
of title to the vehicle or ownership of the vehicle as otherwise reflected in
the automated title processing system has been canceled.
   (B)   This section does not apply to persons engaged in the business of
warehousing or transporting motor vehicles for the purpose of salvage
disposition.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $200,
imprisoned not more than 90 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4505.18)
§ 71.05 DISPLAY OF CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   (1)   The operator of a COMMERCIAL CAR, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01,
when the commercial car is required to be registered under state law, shall,
when operating the commercial car, trailer or semitrailer on the streets,
roads, or highways of this municipality display inside or on the vehicle the
certificate of registration for the commercial car, trailer or semitrailer
provided for in R.C. § 4503.19, or shall carry the certificate on the
operator’s person and display it upon the demand of any peace officer.
      (2)   Every person operating a commercial car, trailer or semitrailer
required to be registered under state law shall permit the inspection of the
certificate of registration upon demand of any peace officer.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
commercial car certificate of registration violation, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.18)
§ 71.06 USE OF UNAUTHORIZED PLATES.
   (A)   No person shall operate or drive a motor vehicle upon the public roads
and highways in this municipality if it displays a license plate or a
distinctive number or identification mark that meets any of the following
criteria:
      (1)   It is fictitious;
      (2)   It is a counterfeit or an unlawfully made copy of any distinctive
number or identification mark;
      (3)   It belongs to another motor vehicle, provided that this section
does not apply to a motor vehicle that is operated on the public roads and
highways in this municipality when the motor vehicle displays license plates
that originally were issued for a motor vehicle that previously was owned by
the same person who owns the motor vehicle that is operated on the public roads
and highways in this municipality during the 30-day period described in R.C. §
4503.12(A)(4).
   (B)   A person who fails to comply with the transfer of registration
provisions of R.C. § 4503.12 and is charged with a violation of that section
shall not be charged with a violation of this section.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)(3) of this section is
guilty of operating a motor vehicle bearing an invalid license plate or
identification mark, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and
a misdemeanor of the third degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.08)
§ 71.07 OPERATING WITHOUT DEALER OR MANUFACTURER LICENSE PLATES.
   (A)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated upon a public road or
highway a motor vehicle of a manufacturer or dealer unless the vehicle carries
and displays a placard, except as provided in R.C. § 4503.21, issued by the
Director of Public Safety that displays the registration number of its
manufacturer or dealer.
(Ord. 2020-51, passed 8-5-20)
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of illegal
operation of a manufacturer’s or dealer’s motor vehicle, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.10(B))
DRIVER’S LICENSES
§ 71.20 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Display or cause or permit to be displayed, or possess any
identification card, driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit
knowing the same to be fictitious, or to have been canceled, suspended, or
altered;
      (2)   Lend to a person not entitled thereto, or knowingly permit a person
not entitled thereto to use any identification card, driver’s or commercial
driver’s license, temporary instruction permit or commercial driver’s license
temporary instruction permit issued to the person so lending or permitting the
use thereof;
      (3)   Display, or represent as one’s own, any identification card,
driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or
commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit not issued to the
person so displaying the same;
      (4)   Fail to surrender to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, upon the
Registrar’s demand, any identification card, driver’s or commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit that has been suspended or canceled;
      (5)   In any application for an identification card, driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit or any renewal, reprint, or
duplicate thereof, knowingly conceal a material fact or present any statement
required under R.C. § 4507.08 or 4507.081 when knowing the same to be false or
fictitious.
   (B)   Whoever violates any division of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.30)
Statutory reference:
   Use of license to violate liquor laws; suspension; procedures, see R.C. §
4510.33
§ 71.21 PERMITTING MINOR TO OPERATE VEHICLE PROHIBITED; TEMPORARY INSTRUCTION
PERMIT; PROBATIONARY LICENSE.
   (A)   No person shall cause or knowingly permit any minor to drive a motor
vehicle upon a highway as an operator, unless the minor has first obtained a
license or permit to drive a motor vehicle under R.C. Chapter 4507.
(R.C. § 4507.31(A))
   (B)   (1)   No holder of a temporary instruction permit issued under R.C. §
4507.05(A) shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking
in violation of the conditions established under R.C. § 4507.05(A).
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (B)(3)(b) of this section, no
holder of a temporary instruction permit that is issued under R.C. § 4507.05(A)
and that is issued on or after July 1, 1998, and who has not attained the age
of 18 years, shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking
between the hours of and 6:00 a.m.
         (b)   The holder of a temporary instruction permit issued under R.C. §
4507.05(A) on or after July 1, 1998, who has not attained the age of 18 years,
may operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or private property
used by the public for purposed of vehicular travel or parking between the
hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m. if, at the time of such operation, the holder
is accompanied by the holder’s parent, guardian, or custodian, and the parent,
guardian, or custodian holds a current valid driver’s or commercial driver’s
license issued by this state, is actually occupying a seat beside the permit
holder, and does not have a prohibited concentration of alcohol in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine as provided in R.C. § 4511.19
(A).
(R.C. § 4507.05(F))
   (C)   (1)   (a)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held
the license for less than 12 months shall operate a motor vehicle upon a
highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m. unless
the holder is accompanied by the holder’s parent or guardian.
         (b)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held the
license for 12 months or longer shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. unless the
holder is accompanied by the holder’s parent or guardian.
      (2)   (a)   Subject to division (E)(1) of this section, division (C)(1)
(a) of this section does not apply to the holder of a probationary driver’s
license who is doing either of the following:
            1.   Traveling to or from work between the hours of midnight and 6:
00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession
written documentation from the holder’s employer.
            2.   Traveling to or from an official function sponsored by the
school the holder attends between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m., provided
that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession written documentation
from an appropriate official of the school;
            3.   Traveling to or from an official religious event between the
hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s
immediate possession written documentation from an appropriate official
affiliated with the event.
         (b)   Division (C)(1)(b) of this section does not apply to the holder
of a probationary driver’s license who is doing either of the following:
            1.   Traveling to or from work between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and
5:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession
written documentation from the holder’s employer.
            2.   Traveling to or from an official function sponsored by the
school the holder attends between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m.,
provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession written
documentation from an appropriate official of the school;
            3.   Traveling to or from an official religious event between the
hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s
immediate possession written documentation from an appropriate official
affiliated with the event.
      (3)   An employer, school official, or official affiliated with a
religious event is not liable in damages in a civil action for any injury,
death, or loss to person or property that allegedly arises from, or is related
to, the fact that the employer, school official, or official affiliated with a
religious event provided the holder of a probationary driver’s license with the
written documentation described in division (C)(2) of this section. The
Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall make available at no cost a form to serve as
the written documentation described in division (C)(2) of this section, and
employers, school officials, officials affiliated with religious events, and
holders of probationary driver’s licenses may utilize that form or may choose
to utilize any other written documentation to meet the requirements of that
division.
      (4)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held the
license for less than 12 months shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking with more than one person who is not a family member
occupying the vehicle unless the probationary license holder is accompanied by
the probationary license holder’s parent, guardian, or custodian.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a violation of division (C)(1)(a) or
(C)(1)(b) of this section if, at the time of the violation, an emergency
existed that required the holder of the probationary driver’s license to
operate a motor vehicle in violation of division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this
section or the holder was an emancipated minor.
   (E)   (1)   If a person is issued a probationary driver’s license prior to
attaining the age of 17 years and the person pleads guilty to, is convicted of,
or is adjudicated in juvenile court of having committed a moving violation
during the six-month period commencing on the date on which the person is
issued the probationary driver’s license, the court with jurisdiction over the
violation may order that the holder must be accompanied by the holder’s parent
or guardian whenever the holder is operating a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking for a period not to exceed six months or the date the holder
attains the age of 17 years, whichever occurs first.
      (2)   Any person who is subject to the operating restrictions established
under division (E)(1) of this section as a result of a first moving violation
may petition the court for driving privileges without being accompanied by the
holder’s parent or guardian during the period of time determined by the court
under that division. In granting the driving privileges, the court shall
specify the purposes of the privileges and shall issue the person appropriate
forms setting forth the privileges granted. If a person is convicted of, pleads
guilty to, or is adjudicated in juvenile court of having committed a second or
subsequent moving violation, the court with jurisdiction over the violation may
terminate any driving privileges previously granted under this division.
      (3)   No person shall violate any operating restriction imposed under
division (E)(1) or (E)(2) of this section.
   (F)   No holder of a probationary license shall operate a motor vehicle upon
a highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking unless the total number of occupants of the vehicle
does not exceed the total number of occupant restraining devices originally
installed in the motor vehicle by its manufacturer, and each occupant of the
vehicle is wearing all of the available elements of a properly adjusted
occupant restraining device.
   (G)   A restricted license may be issued to a person who is 14 or 15 years
of age under proof of hardship satisfactory to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles.
   (H)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether each occupant of the motor vehicle is wearing all of the
available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device as
required by division (F) of this section, or for the sole purpose of issuing a
ticket, citation or summons if that requirement has been or is being violated,
or for causing the arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for a
violation of that requirement.
   (I)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) this section
has been or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket,
citation or summons for such a violation or for causing the arrest or
commencing a prosecution of a person for such a violation.
   (J)   As used in this section:
      FAMILY MEMBER of a probationary license holder includes any of the
following:
         (a)   A spouse;
         (b)   A child or stepchild;
         (c)   A parent, stepparent, grandparent, or parent-in-law;
         (d)   An aunt or uncle;
         (e)   A sibling, whether of the whole or half blood or by adoption, a
brother-in-law, or a sister-in-law;
         (f)   A son or daughter of the probationary license holder’s
stepparent if the stepparent has not adopted the probationary license holder;
         (g)   An eligible adult, as defined in R.C. § 4507.05.
      MOVING VIOLATION means any violation of any statute or ordinance that
regulates the operation of vehicles on the highways or streets. MOVING
VIOLATION does not include a violation of R.C. § 4513.263 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, or a violation of any statute or ordinance
regulating pedestrians or the parking of vehicles, vehicle size or load
limitations, vehicle fitness requirements, or vehicle registration.
      OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4513.263.
(R.C. § 4507.071(B) - (I))
   (K)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.31(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates divisions (B), (C)(1), (C)(4), (E)(3), or (F) of
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. §§ 4507.05(I), 4507.071(J))
§ 71.22 LICENSE REQUIRED AS DRIVER OR COMMERCIAL DRIVER ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE
PROPERTY; NONRESIDENT EXEMPTION.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   No person shall permit the operation of a motor vehicle
upon any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking, knowing the operator does not have a valid
driver’s license issued to the operator by the Registrar of Motor Vehicle or a
deputy registrar under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid commercial driver’s license
issued under R.C. Chapter 4506. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
whoever violates this division is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When
the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
         (b)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this
section or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   No person shall receive a driver’s license, or a motorcycle
operator’s endorsement of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card unless and until the person
surrenders to the Registrar or a deputy registrar all valid licenses, temporary
instruction permits, and identification cards issued to the person by another
jurisdiction recognized by this state.
      (3)   The Registrar shall report the cancellation of a license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card to the issuing authority, together
with information that the license, temporary instruction permit, or
identification card is now issued in this state. The Registrar or a deputy
registrar shall destroy any such license, temporary instruction permit, or
identification card that is not returned to the issuing authority.
      (4)   No person shall possess more than one valid license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card at any time.
(R.C. § 4507.02(A))
   (B)   (1)   No person shall be required to obtain a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license for the purpose of temporarily driving, operating, drawing,
moving, or propelling a road roller or road machinery upon a street or highway.
      (2)   No person shall be required to obtain a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license for the purpose of temporarily driving, operating, drawing,
moving, or propelling any agricultural tractor or implement of husbandry upon a
street or highway at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less.
      (3)   No person shall drive, operate, draw, move, or propel any
agricultural tractor or implement of husbandry upon a street or highway at a
speed greater than 25 miles per hour unless the person has a current, valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license.
      (4)   No person having a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license
shall be required to have a motorcycle operator’s endorsement to operate a
motorcycle having three wheels with a motor of not more than 50 cubic
centimeters piston displacement.
      (5)   No person having a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license
shall be required to have a motorcycle operator’s endorsement to operate an
autocycle or a cab-enclosed motorcycle.
      (6)   Every person on active duty in the military or naval forces of the
United States, when furnished with a driver’s permit and when operating an
official motor vehicle in connection with such duty, is exempt from the license
requirements of R.C. Chapters 4506 and 4507. Every person on active duty in the
military or naval forces of the United States or in service with the peace
corps, volunteers in service to America, or the foreign service of the United
States, is exempt from the license requirements of such sections for the period
of the person’s active duty or service and for six months thereafter, provided
such person was a licensee under such sections at the time the person commenced
the person's active duty or service. This section does not prevent such a
person or the person's spouse or dependent from making an application, as
provided in R.C. § 4507.10(C), for the renewal of a driver’s license or
motorcycle operator’s endorsement or as provided in R.C. § 4506.14 for the
renewal of a commercial driver’s license during the period of the person’s
active duty or service.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.03)
   (C)   Nonresidents, permitted to drive upon the highways of their own state,
may operate any motor vehicle upon any highway in this state without
examination or license under R.C. §§ 4507.01 through 4507.39, inclusive, upon
condition that such nonresident may be required at any time or place to prove
lawful possession or their right to operate such motor vehicle, and to
establish proper identity.
(R.C. § 4507.04)
   (D)   Surrender of driver’s license from another state.
      (1)   Any person who becomes a resident of this state, within 30 days of
becoming a resident, shall surrender any driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card issued by another state to the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a deputy registrar. If such a person intends to
operate a motor vehicle upon the public roads or highways, the person shall
apply for a temporary instruction permit or driver’s license in this state. If
the person fails to apply for a driver’s license or temporary instruction
permit or within 30 days of becoming a resident, the person shall not operate
any motor vehicle in this state under a license or permit issued by another
state.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (D)(1) of this section is guilty of
a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   The offense established under division (D)(2)(a) of this section
is a strict liability offense and strict liability is a culpable mental state
for purposes of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of this offense as a strict
liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
      (3)   For purposes of division (D)(1) of this section, “resident” means
any person to whom any of the following applies:
         (a)   The person maintains their principal residence in this state and
does not reside in this state as a result of the person’s active service in the
United States armed forces.
         (b)   The person is determined by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles to
be a resident in accordance with standards adopted by the Registrar under R.C.
§ 4507.01.
(R.C. § 4507.213)
§ 71.23 EMPLOYMENT OF A MINOR TO OPERATE A TAXICAB PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the definition of CHAUFFEUR in R.C. § 4501.01, no
person shall employ any minor for the purpose of operating a taxicab.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4507.321)
§ 71.24 RESTRICTION AGAINST OWNER LENDING VEHICLE FOR USE OF ANOTHER.
   (A)   No person shall permit a motor vehicle owned by the person or under
the person’s control to be driven by another if any of the following apply:
      (1)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person does not have a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit or valid nonresident driving privileges;
      (2)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privileges have been suspended or canceled under R.C. Chapter 4510 or
any other provision of the Revised Code.
      (3)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s act of driving the motor vehicle would violate any prohibition
contained in R.C. Chapter 4509.
      (4)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s act of driving would violate R.C. § 4511.19 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (5)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
vehicle is the subject of an immobilization waiver order issued under R.C. §
4503.235 and the other person is prohibited from operating the vehicle under
that order.
   (B)   Without limiting or precluding the consideration of any other evidence
in determining whether a violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
or (A)(5) of this section has occurred, it shall be prima-facie evidence that
the offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the operator of the
motor vehicle owned by the offender or under the offender’s control is in a
category described in division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of
this section if any of the following applies:
      (1)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(1), (A)(3), or (A)(5) of this section, the offender and the
operator of the motor vehicle reside in the same household and are related by
consanguinity or affinity.
      (2)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(2) of this section, the offender and the operator of the motor
vehicle reside in the same household, and the offender knows or has reasonable
cause to believe that the operator has been charged with or convicted of any
violation of law or ordinance, or has committed any other act or omission, that
would or could result in the suspension or cancellation of the operator’s
license, permit, or privilege.
      (3)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(4) of this section, the offender and the operator of the motor
vehicle occupied the motor vehicle together at the time of the offense.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of wrongful entrustment of a
motor vehicle, and shall be punished as provided in divisions (C) to (H) of
this section.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates division (A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)(3) of this section is guilty of an
unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the
offender shall be sentenced pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   (a)   If, within three years of a violation of division (A)(1), (A)
(2), or (A)(3) of this section, the offender previously has pleaded guilty to
or been convicted of two or more violations of division (A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)
(3) of this section, R.C. § 4511.203(A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)(3), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) or (A)(5) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   For any violation of this section, in addition to the penalties
imposed under this Code or R.C. Chapter 2929, the court may impose a class
seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7), and, if
the vehicle involved in the offense is registered in the name of the offender,
the court may order one of the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3)(b) or (C)(3)(c)
of this section, the court may order, for 30 days, the immobilization of the
vehicle involved in the offense and the impoundment of that vehicle’s license
plates. If issued, the order shall be issued and enforced under R.C. §
4503.233.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one violation of this section, R.C. § 4511.203, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the court may order, for 60 days, the
immobilization of the vehicle involved in the offense and the impoundment of
that vehicle’s license plates. If issued, the order shall be issued and
enforced under R.C. § 4503.233.
         (c)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section, R.C. § 4511.203, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court may order the criminal
forfeiture to the state of the vehicle involved in the offense. If issued, the
order shall be issued and enforced under R.C. § 4503.234.
      (4)   If title to a motor vehicle that is subject to an order for
criminal forfeiture under division (C)(3)(c) of this section is assigned or
transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, in addition to or
independent of any other penalty established by law, the court may fine the
offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of the National
Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds from any fine imposed under this
division shall be distributed in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234(C)(2).
   (D)   If a court orders the criminal forfeiture of a vehicle under division
(C)(3)(a) or (C)(3)(b) of this section, the court shall not release the vehicle
from the immobilization before the termination of the period of immobilization
ordered unless the court is presented with current proof of financial
responsibility with respect to that vehicle.
   (E)   If a court orders the criminal forfeiture of a vehicle under division
(C)(3)(c) of this section, upon receipt of the order from the court, neither
the Registrar of Motor Vehicles nor any deputy registrar shall accept any
application for the registration or transfer of registration of any motor
vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the order. The period of denial
shall be five years after the date the order is issued, unless, during that
five-year period, the court with jurisdiction of the offense that resulted in
the order terminates the forfeiture and notifies the Registrar of the
termination. If the court terminates the forfeiture and notifies the Registrar,
the Registrar shall take all necessary measures to permit the person to
register a vehicle owned or leased by the person or to transfer the
registration of the vehicle.
   (F)   This section does not apply to motor vehicle rental dealers or motor
vehicle leasing dealers, as defined in R.C. § 4549.65.
   (G)   Evidence of a conviction of, plea of guilty to, or adjudication as a
delinquent child for a violation of this section shall not be admissible as
evidence in any civil action that involves the offender or delinquent child who
is the subject of the conviction, plea, or adjudication and that arises from
the wrongful entrustment of a motor vehicle.
   (H)   For purposes of this section, a vehicle is owned by a person if, at
the time of a violation of this section, the vehicle is registered in the
person’s name.
(R.C. § 4511.203)
§ 71.25 SUSPENSION OF DRIVER’S LICENSE; LICENSE SUSPENDED BY COURT OF RECORD.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 4510.07 or in any other
provision of the Revised Code, whenever an offender is convicted of or pleads
guilty to a violation of any provision of this code that is substantially
equivalent to a provision of the Revised Code, and a court is permitted or
required to suspend a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit for a violation of that provision, a court, in addition to any other
penalties authorized by law, may suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit or non resident operating privileges for the period
of time the court determines appropriate, but the period of suspension imposed
for the violation of the provision of this code shall not exceed the period of
suspension that is permitted or required to be imposed for the violation of the
provision of the Revised Code to which the provision of this code is
substantially equivalent.
(R.C. § 4510.05)
   (B)   Whenever a person is found guilty under the laws of this state or any
ordinance of any political subdivision of this state, of operating a motor
vehicle in violation of any such law or ordinance relating to reckless
operation, the trial court of any court of record, in addition to or
independent of all other penalties provided by law, may impose a class five
suspension of the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02
(A)(5).
   (C)   Suspension of a commercial driver’s license under this section shall
be concurrent with any period of suspension disqualification under R.C. §
3123.58 or 4506.16. No person who is disqualified for life from holding a
commercial driver’s license under R.C. § 4506.16 shall be issued a driver’s
license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period for which the commercial
driver’s license was suspended under this section, and no person whose
commercial driver’s license is suspended under this section shall be issued a
driver’s license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period of the suspension.
(R.C. § 4510.15)
§ 71.26 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall display the operator’s driver’s
license, or furnish satisfactory proof that the operator has a driver’s
license, upon demand of any peace officer or of any person damaged or injured
in any collision in which the licensee may be involved. When a demand is
properly made, and the operator has the operator’s driver’s license on or about
the operator’s person, the operator shall not refuse to display the license. A
person’s failure to furnish satisfactory evidence that the person is licensed
under R.C. Chapter 4507 when the person does not have the person’s license on
or about the person’s person shall be prima facie evidence of the person’s not
having obtained a driver’s license.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, whoever
violates this section is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section,
R.C. § 4507.35, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense
is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.35)
§ 71.27 PROHIBITION AGAINST FALSE STATEMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement to any matter or
thing required by the provisions of this traffic code.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4507.36)
§ 71.28 DRIVING UNDER SUSPENSION OR IN VIOLATION OF LICENSE RESTRICTION.
   (A)   No person whose driver's or commercial driver's license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege has been suspended under any provision of the
Revised Code, other than R.C. Chapter 4509, or under any applicable law in any
other jurisdiction in which the person's license or permit was issued shall
operate any motor vehicle upon the public roads and highways or upon any public
or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking within this municipality during the period of suspension unless the
person is granted limited driving privileges and is operating the vehicle in
accordance with the terms of the limited driving privileges.
   (B)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any public
or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking in this municipality in violation of any restriction of the person's
driver's or commercial driver's license or permit imposed under R.C. § 4506.10
(D) or 4507.14.
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(1)(b) of this section,
whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of driving under
suspension or in violation of a license restriction, a misdemeanor of the first
degree. The court shall impose upon the offender a class seven suspension of
the offender's driver's license, commercial driver's license, temporary
instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operation privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
         (b)   If the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit or nonresident operating privilege has been suspended under R.C. §
3123.58 or R.C. § 4510.22, except as otherwise provided in this division, a
violation of division (A) of this section is an unclassified misdemeanor. When
the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28
(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to $1,000; and, notwithstanding R.C. §
2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant to R.C. § 2929.27(B) to
serve a term of community service of up to 500 hours. If the offender
previously was convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this
section or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance within the past three
years, the offense is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of driving
in violation of a license restriction, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   Except as provided in division (C)(4) or (C)(5) of this section,
the court, in addition to any other penalty that it imposes on the offender and
if the vehicle is registered in the offender's name, shall order the
immobilization of the vehicle involved in the offense for 30 days in accordance
with R.C. § 4503.233 and the impoundment of that vehicle's license plates for
30 days.
      (4)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to one violation of R.C. § 4510.11, this section, or of a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the court, in addition to any other sentence
that it imposes on the offender and if the vehicle is registered in the
offender's name, shall order the immobilization of the vehicle involved in the
offense for 60 days in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233 and the impoundment of
that vehicle's license plates for 60 days.
      (5)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to two or more violations of this section, or of a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, the court, in addition to any other sentence that it
imposes on the offender and if the vehicle is registered in the offender's
name, shall order the criminal forfeiture of the vehicle involved in the
offense to the state.
   (D)   Any order for immobilization and impoundment under this section shall
be issued and enforced under R.C. § 4503.233. The court shall not release a
vehicle from immobilization ordered under this section unless the court is
presented with current proof of financial responsibility with respect to that
vehicle.
   (E)   Any order of criminal forfeiture under this section shall be issued
and enforced under R.C. § 4503.234. Upon receipt of the copy of the order from
the court, neither the registrar of motor vehicles nor a deputy registrar shall
accept any application for the registration or transfer of registration of any
motor vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the declaration of
forfeiture. The period of registration denial shall be five years after the
date of the order, unless, during that period, the court having jurisdiction of
the offense that led to the order terminates the forfeiture and notifies the
registrar of the termination. The registrar then shall take necessary measures
to permit the person to register a vehicle owned or leased by the person or to
transfer registration of the vehicle.
   (F)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver's or commercial driver's license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(Ord. 2010-61, passed 9-15-10)
Statutory reference:
   For similar state law provisions, see R.C. §§ 4510.04 and 4510.11
§ 71.29 OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE WITHOUT VALID LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   No person, except those expressly exempted under R.C. §§
4507.03, 4507.04, and 4507.05, shall operate any motor vehicle upon a public
road or highway or any public or private property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular travel or parking in this municipality unless the person
has a valid driver's license issued under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a commercial
driver's license issued under R.C. Chapter 4506.
      (2)   No person, except a person expressly exempted under R.C. §§
4507.03, 4507.04, and 4507.05, shall operate any motorcycle upon a public road
or highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking in this municipality unless the person has a valid
license as a motorcycle operator that was issued upon application by the
registrar of motor vehicles under R.C. Chapter 4507. The license shall be in
the form of an endorsement, as determined by the registrar, upon a driver's or
commercial driver's license, if the person has a valid license to operate a
motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle, or in the form of a restricted
license as provided in R.C. § 4507.14, if the person does not have a valid
license to operate a motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operating a motor vehicle
without a valid license and shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   If the trier of fact finds that the offender never has held a valid
driver’s license or commercial driver’s license issued by this state or any
other jurisdiction, the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. The offender
may be fined up to $1,000 and pursuant to R.C. § 2929.27(B) additionally may be
ordered to serve a term of community service of up to 500 hours.
      (2)   (a)   Subject to division (B)(2)(b) of this section, if the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit was expired at the
time of the offense, the offense is a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   1.   If the offender previously was convicted of or pleaded
guilty to three or more violations of R.C. § 4510.12, this section, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, within the past three years, the
offense is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
            2.   If the offender previously was convicted of or pleaded guilty
to three or more violations of R.C. § 4510.12, this section, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance within the past three years, the offense is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (C)   The court shall not impose a license suspension for a first violation
of this section or if more than three years have passed since the offender's
last violation of R.C. § 4510.12, this section, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (D)   If the offender was convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more
violations of R.C. § 4510.12, this section, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance within the past three years, and if the offender's license
was expired for more than six months at the time of the offense, the court
shall impose a class seven suspension of the offender's driver license,
commercial driver's license, temporary instruction permit, probationary
license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. §
4510.02(A)(7).
(Ord. 2010-7, passed 2-17-10)
Statutory reference:
   For similar state law provisions, see R.C. § 4510.12
§ 71.30 DRIVING UNDER OVI SUSPENSION.
   (A)   No person whose driver's or commercial driver's license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege has been suspended under R.C. § 4511.19,
4511.191, or 4511.196 or under R.C. § 4510.07 for a conviction of a violation
of a municipal OVI ordinance shall operate any motor vehicle upon the public
roads or highways within this municipality during the period of the suspension.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of driving under OVI
suspension. The court shall sentence the offender under R.C. Chapter 2929,
subject to the differences authorized or required by this section.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this
section, driving under OVI suspension is a misdemeanor of the first degree. The
court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of three consecutive days. The three-day
term shall be imposed, unless, subject to division (C) of this section, the
court instead imposes a sentence of not less than 30 consecutive days of house
arrest with electronic monitoring. A period of house arrest with electronic
monitoring imposed under this division shall not exceed six months. If the
court imposes a mandatory three-day jail term under this division, the court
may impose a jail term in addition to that term, provided that in no case shall
the cumulative jail term imposed for the offense exceed six months;
         (b)   A fine of not less than $250 and not more than $1,000;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section;
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender's name, immobilization for 30 days of the
offender's vehicle and impoundment for 30 days of the identification license
plates of that vehicle. The order for immobilization and impoundment shall be
issued and enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
      (2)   If, within six years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of this section or one
equivalent offense, driving under OVI suspension is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of 10 consecutive days. Notwithstanding
the jail terms provided in R.C. §§ 2929.21 through 2929.28, the court may
sentence the offender to a longer jail term of not more than one year. The 10-
day mandatory jail term shall be imposed unless, subject to division (C) of
this section, the court instead imposes a sentence of not less than 90
consecutive days of house arrest with electronic monitoring. The period of
house arrest with electronic monitoring shall not exceed one year;
         (b)   Notwithstanding the fines provided for in R.C. Chapter 2929, a
fine of not less than $500 and not more than $2,500;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section;
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender's name, immobilization of the offender's
vehicle for 60 days and the impoundment for 60 days of the identification
license plates of that vehicle. The order for immobilization and impoundment
shall be issued and enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
      (3)   If, within six years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section
or two or more equivalent offenses, driving under OVI suspension is a
misdemeanor. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of 30 consecutive days. Notwithstanding
the jail terms provided in R.C. §§ 2929.21 through 2929.28, the court may
sentence the offender to a longer jail term of not more than one year. The
court shall not sentence the offender to a term of house arrest with electronic
monitoring in lieu of the mandatory portion of the jail term;
         (b)   Notwithstanding the fines set forth in R.C. Chapter 2929, a fine
of not less than $500 and not more than $2,500;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section;
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender's name, criminal forfeiture to the state
of the offender's vehicle. The order of criminal forfeiture shall be issued and
enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234. If title to a motor vehicle that
is subject to an order for criminal forfeiture under this division is assigned
or transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, the court may fine
the offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of the
national automobile dealers association. The proceeds from any fine so imposed
shall be distributed in accordance with division R.C. § 4503.234(C)(2).
   (C)   (1)   No court shall impose an alternative sentence of house arrest
with electronic monitoring under division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of this section
unless, within 60 days of the date of sentencing, the court issues a written
finding on the record that, due to the unavailability of space at the jail
where the offender is required to serve the jail term imposed, the offender
will not be able to begin serving that term within the 60-day period following
the date of sentencing.
      (2)   An offender sentenced under this section to a period of house
arrest with electronic monitoring shall be permitted work release during that
period.
   (D)   Fifty percent of any fine imposed by a court under division (B)(1),
(B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section shall be deposited into the municipal
indigent drivers alcohol treatment fund under the control of that court, as
created by the municipality pursuant to R.C. § 4511.191(H).
   (E)   In addition to or independent of all other penalties provided by law
or ordinance, the trial judge of any court of record or the mayor of a mayor's
court shall impose on an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
violation of this section a class seven suspension of the offender's driver's
or commercial driver's license or permit or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
      (1)   When permitted as specified in R.C. § 4510.021, if the court grants
limited driving privileges during a suspension imposed under this section, the
privileges shall be granted on the additional condition that the offender must
display restricted license plates, issued under R.C. § 4503.231, on the vehicle
driven subject to the privileges, except as provided in R.C. § 4503.231(B).
      (2)   A suspension of a commercial driver's license under this section
shall be concurrent with any period of suspension or disqualification under
R.C. § 3123.58 or 4506.16. No person who is disqualified for life from holding
a commercial driver's license under R.C. § 4506.16 shall be issued a driver's
license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period for which the commercial
driver's license was suspended under this section, and no person whose
commercial driver's license is suspended under this section shall be issued a
driver's license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period of the suspension.
   (F)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense that is a misdemeanor of the first degree under this
section for which the offender is sentenced.
   (G)   As used in this section:
      ELECTRONIC MONITORING has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE means any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of a municipal ordinance, law of another state, or
law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to division (A) of
this section;
         (b)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to division (A) of this section.
      JAIL has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      MANDATORY JAIL TERM means the mandatory term in jail of 3, 10, or 30
consecutive days that must be imposed under division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3)
of this section upon an offender convicted of a violation of division (A) of
this section and in relation to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term
must be served in a jail.
         (b)   Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term
cannot be suspended, reduced, or otherwise modified pursuant to any provision
of the Ohio Revised Code.
(R.C. § 4510.14)
   (H)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver's or commercial driver's license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
Statutory reference:
   Immobilization of vehicle; impoundment of license plates; criminal
forfeiture of vehicle, see R.C. § 4510.161
§ 71.31 DRIVING UNDER FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY LAW SUSPENSION OR CANCELLATION.
   (A)   No person, whose driver's or commercial driver's license or temporary
instruction permit or nonresident's operating privilege has been suspended or
canceled pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4509, shall operate any motor vehicle within
this municipality, or knowingly permit any motor vehicle owned by the person to
be operated by another person in the municipality, during the period of the
suspension or cancellation, except as specifically authorized by R.C. Chapter
4509. No person shall operate a motor vehicle within this municipality, or
knowingly permit any motor vehicle owned by the person to be operated by
another person in the municipality, during the period in which the person is
required by R.C. § 4509.45 to file and maintain proof of financial
responsibility for a violation of R.C. § 4509.101, unless proof of financial
responsibility is maintained with respect to that vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of driving under
financial responsibility law suspension or cancellation. Except as otherwise
provided in this division, the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28
(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to $1,000; and, notwithstanding R.C. §
2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant to R.C. § 2929.27(B) to
serve a term of community service of up to 500 hours. If, within three years of
the offense, the offender previously was convicted of or pleaded guilty to two
or more violations of this section or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor of the first degree. The court shall
impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege for the period of
time specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
      (2)   If the vehicle is registered in the offender's name and division
(B)(3) of this section does not apply, the court, in addition to or independent
of any other sentence that it imposes upon the offender, may order the
immobilization for no more than 30 days of the vehicle involved in the offense
and the impoundment for no more than 30 days of the license plates of that
vehicle.
      (3)   If the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if, within
five years of the offense, the offender has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to one violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, the court, in addition to or independent of any other
sentence that it imposes on the offender, shall order the immobilization for 60
days of the vehicle involved in the offense and impoundment for 60 days of the
license plates of that vehicle. If the vehicle is registered in the offender’s
name and if, within five years of the offense, the offender has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, the court, in
addition to or independent of any other sentence that it imposes upon the
offender, shall order the criminal forfeiture to the state of the vehicle
involved in the offense. If title to a motor vehicle that is subject to an
order for criminal forfeiture under this division is assigned or transferred
and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, in addition to or independent of
any other penalty established by law, the court may fine the offender the value
of the vehicle as determined by publications of the national auto dealers
association. The proceeds from any fine so imposed shall be distributed in
accordance with R.C. § 4503.234(C)(2).
   (C)   Any order for immobilization and impoundment under this section shall
be issued and enforced in accordance with R.C. §§ 4503.233 and 4507.02, as
applicable. Any order of criminal forfeiture shall be issued and enforced in
accordance with R.C. § 4503.234. The court shall not release a vehicle from
immobilization orders under this section unless the court is presented with
current proof of financial responsibility with respect to that vehicle.
(Ord. 2010-61, passed 9-15-10)
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver's or commercial driver's license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
Statutory reference:
   For similar state law provisions, see R.C. § 4510.16
   Immobilization of vehicle; impoundment of license plates; criminal
forfeiture of vehicle, see R.C. § 4510.161
§ 71.32 FAILURE TO REINSTATE LICENSE.
   (A)   No person whose driver's license, commercial driver's license,
temporary instruction permit, or nonresident's operating privilege has been
suspended shall operate any motor vehicle upon a public road or highway or any
public or private property after the suspension has expired unless the person
has complied with all license reinstatement requirements imposed by the court,
the bureau of motor vehicles, or another provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
   (B)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A) of this section may be admitted into evidence as
prima facie evidence that the license of the person had not been reinstated by
the person at the time of the alleged violation of division (A) of this
section. The person charged with a violation of division (A) of this section
may offer evidence to rebut this prima facie evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to reinstate a
license, and shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates this section is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of a violation of division (A) of this
section, the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted of two
or more violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.21 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (3)   In all cases, the court may impose upon the offender a class seven
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary driver’s license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
(R.C. § 4510.21)
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver's or commercial driver's license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty
otherwise is provided in the section that contains the provision violated is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. §§ 4506.99, 4507.99)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
General Provisions
   
72.001   Lanes of travel upon roadways
   
72.002   Driving through safety zone
   
72.003   Vehicles traveling in opposite directions
   
72.004   Rules governing overtaking and passing of vehicles
   
72.005   Permission to overtake and pass on the right
   
72.006   Driving to left of center line
   
72.007   Prohibition against driving upon left side of roadway
   
72.008   Hazardous zones
   
72.009   One-way highways and rotary traffic islands
   
72.010   Rules for driving in marked lanes
   
72.011   Space between moving vehicles
   
72.012   Divided roadways
   
72.013   Rules for turns at intersections
   
72.014   U-turns and turning in roadway prohibited
   
72.015   Starting and backing vehicles
   
72.016   Turn and stop signals
   
72.017   Hand and arm signals
Right-of-Way
   
72.030   Right-of-way at intersections
   
72.031   Right-of-way when turning left
   
72.032   Right-of-way at through highways; stop signs; yield signs
   
72.033   Stop at sidewalk area; stop signs on private roads and driveways
   
72.034   Right-of-way on public highway
   
72.035   Pedestrian on sidewalk has right-of-way
   
72.036   Right-of-way of public safety vehicles
   
72.037   Funeral procession has right-of-way
   
72.038   Pedestrians yield right-of-way to public safety vehicle
   
72.039   Pedestrian on crosswalk has right-of-way
   
72.040   Right-of-way yielded to blind person
   
72.041   Right-of-way yielded by pedestrian
Pedestrians
   
72.050   Pedestrian movement in crosswalks
   
72.051   Pedestrian walking along highway
   
72.052   Prohibition against soliciting rides; riding on outside of vehicle
   
72.053   Pedestrian on bridge or railroad crossing
   
72.054   Persons operating motorized wheelchairs
   
72.055   Intoxicated or drugged pedestrian hazard on highway
   
72.056   Operation of electric personal assistive mobility devices
   
72.057   Operation of personal delivery device on sidewalks and crosswalks
   
72.058   Low-speed micromobility devices
   
72.059   School crossing guards to direct traffic in school zones
Grade Crossings
   
72.065   Stop signs at grade crossings
   
72.066   Driving vehicle across railroad grade crossing
   
72.067   Vehicles required to stop at grade crossings
   
72.068   Slow-moving vehicles or equipment crossing railroad tracks
Prohibitions
   
72.075   Obstruction and interference affecting view and control of driver
   
72.076   Occupying travel trailer, fifth wheel vehicle, or manufactured or
mobile home while in motion
   
72.077   Driving upon closed highway prohibited
   
72.078   Driving upon sidewalk area or paths exclusively for bicycles
   
72.079   Obstructing passage of other vehicles
   
72.080   Following an emergency or public vehicle prohibited; approaching
stationary public safety vehicle and certain other vehicles with caution
   
72.081   Driving over unprotected fire hose
   
72.082   Placing injurious material on highway or depositing litter from motor
vehicle
   
72.083   Transporting child not in child-restraint system prohibited
   
72.084   Occupant restraining devices
   
72.085   Operating motor vehicle while wearing earphones or earplugs
   
72.086   Chauffeured limousines and livery services
   
72.087   Operating traction engine upon improved highway
   
72.088   Cracking exhaust noises; peeling out
   
72.089   Shortcutting across private property
   
72.090   Prohibiting operation of a motor vehicle while using or holding an
electronic wireless communication device; driving while texting
   
72.091   Use of devices by persons under 18 years of age
   
72.092   Opening doors of vehicles in school zones
School Buses
   
72.100   Regulations concerning school buses
   
72.101   Violation of regulations; report; investigation; citation; warning
   
72.102   Restrictions on the operation of school buses
   
72.103   School bus inspection
   
72.104   School bus not used for school purposes
   
72.105   Licensing by Department of Public Safety
   
72.106   Registration and identification of school buses
   
72.107   School bus marking
   
72.108   Flashing light signal lamps
   
72.109   Occupant restraining device for operator
Statutory reference:
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.001 LANES OF TRAVEL UPON ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction, or when making a left turn under the rules governing such movements;
      (2)   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the highway; provided, any person so doing shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the highway within such distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard;
      (3)   When driving upon a roadway divided into three or more marked lanes
for traffic under the rules applicable thereon;
      (4)   When driving upon a roadway designated and posted with signs for
one-way traffic;
      (5)   When otherwise directed by a police officer or traffic-control
device.
   (B)   (1)   Upon all roadways any vehicle proceeding at less than the
prevailing and lawful speed of traffic at the time and place and under the
conditions then existing shall be driven in the right-hand lane then available
for traffic, and far enough to the right to allow passing by faster vehicles if
such passing is safe and reasonable, except under any of the following
circumstances:
         (a)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction;
         (b)   When preparing for a left turn;
         (c)   When the driver must necessarily drive in a lane other than the
right-hand lane to continue on the driver’s intended route.
      (2)   Nothing in division (B)(1) of this section requires a driver of a
slower vehicle to compromise the driver’s safety to allow overtaking by a
faster vehicle.
   (C)   Upon any roadway having four or more lanes for moving traffic and
providing for two-way movement of traffic, no vehicle shall be driven to the
left of the center line of the roadway, except when authorized by official
traffic-control devices designating certain lanes to the left of the center of
the roadway for use by traffic not otherwise permitted to use the lanes, or
except as permitted under division (A)(2) of this section. This division shall
not be construed as prohibiting the crossing of the center line in making a
left turn into or from an alley, private road, or driveway.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.25)
§ 72.002 DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall at any time be driven through or within a safety
zone.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.60)
§ 72.003 VEHICLES TRAVELING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   Operators of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass
each other to the right, and upon roadways having width for not more than one
line of traffic in each direction, each operator shall give to the other one-
half of the main traveled portion of the roadway or as nearly one-half as is
reasonably possible.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.26)
§ 72.004 RULES GOVERNING OVERTAKING AND PASSING OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   The following rules govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles
proceeding in the same direction:
      (1)   The operator of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in
the same direction shall, except as provided in division (A)(3) of this
section, signal to the vehicle to be overtaken, shall pass to the left thereof
at a safe distance, and shall not again drive to the right side of the roadway
until safely clear of the overtaken vehicle. When a motor vehicle overtakes and
passes a bicycle or electric bicycle, three feet or greater is considered a
safe passing distance.
      (2)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
operator of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle at the latter’s audible signal, and the operator shall not
increase the speed of the operator’s vehicle until completely passed by the
overtaking vehicle.
      (3)   The operator of a vehicle overtaking and passing another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction on a divided highway as defined in R.C. §
4511.35, a limited access highway as defined in R.C. § 5511.02, or a highway
with four or more traffic lanes is not required to signal audibly to the
vehicle being overtaken and passed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.27)
§ 72.005 PERMISSION TO OVERTAKE AND PASS ON THE RIGHT.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass on the right of another
vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
or
      (2)   Upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width for
two or more lines of vehicles moving lawfully in the direction being traveled
by the overtaking vehicle.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle only
under conditions permitting the movement in safety. The movement shall not be
made by driving off the roadway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.28)
§ 72.006 DRIVING TO LEFT OF CENTER LINE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left of the center of the roadway in
overtaking and passing traffic proceeding in the same direction, unless the
left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient
distance ahead to permit the overtaking and passing to be completely made
without interfering with the safe operation of any traffic approaching from the
opposite direction or any traffic overtaken. In every event, the overtaking
vehicle must return to an authorized lane of travel as soon as practicable, and
in the event the passing movement involves the use of a lane authorized for the
traffic approaching from the opposite direction, before coming within 200 feet
of any approaching vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.29)
§ 72.007 PROHIBITION AGAINST DRIVING UPON LEFT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven upon the left side of the roadway under the
following conditions:
      (1)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
highway, where the operator’s view is obstructed within such a distance as to
create a hazard in the event traffic might approach from the opposite
direction;
      (2)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of any
bridge, viaduct, or tunnel; or
      (3)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any intersection
or railroad grade crossing.
   (B)   This section does not apply to vehicles upon a one-way roadway, upon a
roadway where traffic is lawfully directed to be driven to the left side, or
under the conditions described in R.C. § 4511.25(A)(2) or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.30)
§ 72.008 HAZARDOUS ZONES.
   (A)   The Department of Transportation may determine those portions of any
state highway where overtaking and passing other traffic or driving to the left
of the center or center line of the roadway would be especially hazardous, and
may, by appropriate signs or markings on the highway, indicate the beginning
and end of such zones. When signs or markings are in place and clearly visible,
every operator of a vehicle shall obey the directions of the signs or markings,
notwithstanding the distances set out in R.C. § 4511.30.
   (B)   (1)   Upon all roadways any vehicle proceeding at less than the
prevailing and lawful speed of traffic at the time and place and under the
conditions then existing shall be driven in the right-hand lane then available
for traffic, and far enough to the right to allow passing by faster vehicles if
such passing is safe and reasonable, except under any of the following
circumstances:
         (a)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction;
         (b)   When preparing for a left turn;
         (c)   When the driver must necessarily drive in a lane other than the
right-hand lane to continue on the driver’s intended route.
      (2)   Nothing in division (B)(1) of this section requires a driver of a
slower vehicle to compromise the driver’s safety to allow overtaking by a
faster vehicle.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.31)
§ 72.009 ONE-WAY HIGHWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon a roadway designated and posted with signs for one-way
traffic, a vehicle shall be driven only in the direction designated.
      (2)   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven
only to the right of the rotary traffic island.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.32)
§ 72.010 RULES FOR DRIVING IN MARKED LANES.
   (A)   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for traffic, or wherever within the municipality traffic is lawfully
moving in two or more substantially continuous lines in the same direction, the
following rules apply:
      (1)   A vehicle shall be driven, as nearly as is practicable, entirely
within a single lane or line of traffic and shall not be moved from the lane or
line until the driver has first ascertained that the movement can be made with
safety.
      (2)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes and provides for
the two-way movement of traffic, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center
lane, except when overtaking and passing another vehicle where the roadway is
clearly visible and the center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance,
or when preparing for a left turn, or where the center lane is at the time
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the direction the vehicle is
proceeding, and is posted with signs to give notice of such allocation.
      (3)   Official signs may be erected directing specified traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction, regardless of the center of the roadway, or restricting
the use of a particular lane to only buses during certain hours or during all
hours, and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of such signs.
      (4)   Official traffic-control devices may be installed prohibiting the
changing of lanes on sections of roadway, and drivers of vehicles shall obey
the directions of every such device.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.33)
§ 72.011 SPACE BETWEEN MOVING VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle
more closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of
the vehicle and the traffic upon and the condition of the highway.
      (2)   The driver of any truck, or motor vehicle drawing another vehicle,
when traveling upon a roadway outside a business or residence district, shall
maintain a sufficient space, whenever conditions permit, between the vehicle
and another vehicle ahead so an overtaking motor vehicle may enter and occupy
the space without danger. This division does not prevent overtaking and passing
nor does it apply to any lane specially designated for use by trucks.
      (3)   Motor vehicles being driven upon any roadway outside of a business
or residence district in a caravan or motorcade shall maintain a sufficient
space between the vehicles so an overtaking vehicle may enter and occupy the
space without danger. This division shall not apply to funeral processions.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.34)
§ 72.012 DIVIDED ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Whenever any highway has been divided into two roadways by an
intervening space, or by a physical barrier, or a clearly indicated dividing
section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle shall be
driven only upon the right-hand roadway, and no vehicle shall be driven over,
across, or within any dividing space, barrier, or section, except through an
opening, crossover, or intersection established by public authority. This
section does not prohibit the occupancy of the dividing space, barrier, or
section for the purpose of an emergency stop, or in compliance with an order of
a police officer.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.35)
§ 72.013 RULES FOR TURNS AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall be
governed by the following rules:
      (1)   Approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practicable to the right- hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      (2)   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both
directions on each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left
turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
center line thereof and by passing to the right of the center line where it
enters the intersection, and, after entering the intersection, the left turn
shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the center line
of the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be made
in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the
intersection.
      (3)   At any intersection where traffic is restricted to one direction on
one or more of the roadways, the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at
any such intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand
lane lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of the
vehicle, and, after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so
as to leave the intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the left hand lane
of the roadway being entered lawfully available to traffic moving in that lane.
   (B)   The Department of Transportation and local authorities may cause
markers, buttons, or signs to be placed within or adjacent to intersections,
and thereby require and direct that a different course from that specified in
this section be traveled by vehicles turning at an intersection, and when
markers, buttons, or signs are so placed, no operator of a vehicle shall turn
the vehicle at an intersection other than as directed and required by the
markers, buttons, or signs.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.36)
§ 72.014 U-TURNS AND TURNING IN ROADWAY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as provided in R.C. § 4511.13 and division (B) of this section,
no vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon any
curve, or upon the approach to or near the crest of a grade, if such vehicle
cannot be seen within 500 feet by the driver of any other vehicle approaching
from either direction.
   (B)   The driver of an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call, may turn the vehicle so as to proceed in the
opposite direction. This division applies only when the emergency vehicle or
public safety vehicle is responding to an emergency call, is equipped with and
displaying at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle, and when the driver of the vehicle is giving an audible signal by
siren, exhaust whistle, or bell. This division does not relieve the driver of
an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.37)
§ 72.015 STARTING AND BACKING VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or
parked until the movement can be made with reasonable safety.
      (2)   Before backing, operators of vehicles shall give ample warning, and
while backing they shall exercise vigilance not to injure person or property on
the street or highway.
      (3)   No person shall back a motor vehicle on a freeway, except:
         (a)   In a rest area;
         (b)   In the performance of public works or official duties;
         (c)   As a result of an emergency caused by an accident or breakdown
of a motor vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.38)
§ 72.016 TURN AND STOP SIGNALS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall turn a vehicle or move right or left upon a
highway unless and until the person has exercised due care to ascertain that
the movement can be made with reasonable safety, nor without giving an
appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter provided.
      (2)   When required, a signal of intention to turn or move right or left
shall be given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by
the vehicle before turning, except that in the case of a person operating a
bicycle or electric bicycle, the signal shall be made not less than one time
but is not required to be continuous. A bicycle or electric bicycle operator is
not required to make a signal if the bicycle is in a designated turn lane, and
a signal shall not be given when the operator’s hands are needed for the safe
operation of the bicycle or electric bicycle.
      (3)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear, when there is opportunity to
give a signal.
      (4)   Any stop or turn signal required by this section shall be given
either by means of the hand and arm, or by signal lights that clearly indicate
to both approaching and following traffic the intention to turn or move right
or left, except that any motor vehicle in use on a highway shall be equipped
with, and the required signal shall be given by, signal lights when the
distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the left outside
limit of the body, cab or load of such motor vehicle exceeds 24 inches, or when
the distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the rear limit
of the body or load thereof exceeds 14 feet, whether a single vehicle or a
combination of vehicles.
      (5)   The signal lights required by this section shall not be flashed on
one side only on a disabled vehicle, flashed as a courtesy or “do pass” signal
to operators of other vehicles approaching from the rear, nor be flashed on one
side only of a parked vehicle except as may be necessary for compliance with
this section.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.39)
§ 72.017 HAND AND ARM SIGNALS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, all signals
required by the provisions of this traffic code, when given by hand and arm,
shall be given from the left side of the vehicle in the following manner, and
the signals shall indicate as follows:
      (1)   Left turn, hand and arm extended horizontally;
      (2)   Right turn, hand and arm extended upward;
      (3)   Stop or decrease speed, hand and arm extended downward.
   (B)   As an alternative to division (A)(2) of this section, a person
operating a bicycle or electric bicycle may give a right turn signal by
extending the right hand and arm horizontally and to the right side of the
bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.40)
RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 72.030 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection from different
streets or highways at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle
on the left shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
   (B)   The right-of-way rule declared in division (A) of this section is
modified at through highways and otherwise as stated in this traffic code or
R.C. Chapter 4511.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.41)
§ 72.031 RIGHT-OF-WAY WHEN TURNING LEFT.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an
intersection or into an alley, private road, or driveway shall yield the right-
of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is within
the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.42)
§ 72.032 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT THROUGH HIGHWAYS; STOP SIGNS; YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   Except when directed to proceed by a law enforcement officer, every
driver of a vehicle approaching a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or, if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering it. After having stopped, the driver shall yield the right-of-
way to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another roadway so
closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the time the driver is
moving across or within the intersection or junction of roadways.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall slow down to a
speed reasonable for the existing conditions, and if required for safety to
stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, before entering
the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if none, then at the
point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering it. After
slowing, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection or junction of roadways. Whenever a driver is involved in a
collision with a vehicle in the intersection or junction of roadways, after
driving past a yield sign without stopping, the collision shall be prima facie
evidence of the driver’s failure to yield the right-of- way.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.43)
§ 72.033 STOP AT SIDEWALK AREA; STOP SIGNS ON PRIVATE ROADS AND DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, building, private
road, or driveway within a business or residence district shall stop the
vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area
extending across the alley, building entrance, road, or driveway, or in the
event there is no sidewalk area, shall stop at the point nearest the street to
be entered where the driver has a view of approaching traffic thereon.
(R.C. § 4511.431(A))
   (B)   The owner of a private road or driveway located in a private
residential area containing 20 or more dwelling units may erect stop signs at
places where the road or driveway intersects with another private road or
driveway in the residential area, in compliance with all of the following
requirements:
      (1)   The stop sign is sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily
observant person and meets the specifications of and is placed in accordance
with the manual adopted by the Department of Transportation pursuant to R.C. §
4511.09;
      (2)   The owner has posted a sign at the entrance of the private road or
driveway that is in plain view and clearly informs persons entering the road or
driveway that they are entering private property, stop signs have been posted
and must be obeyed, and the signs are enforceable by law enforcement officers
under state law. The sign required by this division, where appropriate, may be
incorporated with the sign required by R.C. § 4511.211(A)(2), or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   The provisions of R.C. § 4511.43(A) and R.C. § 4511.46, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be deemed to apply to the
driver of a vehicle on a private road or driveway where a stop sign is placed
in accordance with division (B) of this section and to a pedestrian crossing
such a road or driveway at an intersection where a stop sign is in place.
   (D)   When a stop sign is placed in accordance with division (B) of this
section, any law enforcement officer may apprehend a person found violating the
stop sign and may stop and charge the person with violating the stop sign.
   (E)   As used in this section, and for the purpose of applying R.C. §
4511.43(A) and R.C. § 4511.46, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, to conduct under this section:
      INTERSECTION means:
         (a)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two private roads or driveways which join one another at, or
approximately at, right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling
upon different private roads or driveways joining at any other angle may come
in conflict.
         (b)   Where a private road or driveway includes two roadways 30 feet
or more apart, then every crossing of two roadways of such private roads or
driveways shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
      OWNER and PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL AREA CONTAINING 20 OR MORE DWELLING UNITS
have the same meanings as in R.C. § 4511.211.
      ROADWAY means that portion of a private road or driveway improved,
designed or ordinarily used for vehicular travel, except the berm or shoulder.
If a private road or driveway includes two or more separate roadways, the term
ROADWAY means any such roadway separately but not all such roadways
collectively.
(R.C.§ 4511.432(A) - (C), (E))
   (F)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (G)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. §§ 4511.431(B), 4511.432(D))
§ 72.034 RIGHT-OF-WAY ON PUBLIC HIGHWAY.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from any
place other than another roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all traffic
approaching on the roadway to be entered or crossed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.44)
§ 72.035 PEDESTRIAN ON SIDEWALK HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian
on a sidewalk.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.441)
§ 72.036 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Upon the approach of a public safety vehicle or coroner’s vehicle,
equipped with at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating light visible
under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of
the vehicle, and the driver is giving an audible signal by siren, exhaust
whistle, or bell, no driver of any other vehicle shall fail to yield the right-
of-way, immediately drive if practical to a position parallel to, and as close
as possible to, the right edge or curb of the highway clear of any
intersection, and stop and remain in that position until the public safety
vehicle or coroner’s vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a
police officer.
   (B)   This section does not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle or
coroner’s vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons and property upon the highway.
   (C)   This section applies to a coroner’s vehicle only when the vehicle is
operated in accordance with R.C. § 4513.171, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance. As used in this section, CORONER’S VEHICLE means a vehicle
used by a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator that is equipped
with a flashing, oscillating or rotating red or blue light and a siren, exhaust
whistle or bell capable of giving an audible signal.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division or division (E), whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree on a first offense. On a second offense within one year after the first
offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree, and, on
each subsequent offense within one year after the first offense, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 4511.45)
   (E)   (1)   When the failure of a motor vehicle operator to yield the right-
of-way to a public safety vehicle as required by division (A) of this section
impedes the ability of the public safety vehicle to respond to an emergency,
any emergency personnel in the public safety vehicle may report the license
plate number and a general description of the vehicle and the operator of the
vehicle to the law enforcement agency exercising jurisdiction over the area
where the alleged violation occurred.
      (2)   (a)   Upon receipt of a report under division (E)(1) of this
section, the law enforcement agency may conduct an investigation to attempt to
determine or confirm the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time of
the alleged violation.
         (b)   If the identity of the operator at the time of an alleged
violation of division (A) of this section is established, the law enforcement
agency has probable cause to issue either a written warning or a citation for
that violation, and the agency shall issue a written warning or a citation to
the operator.
         (c)   If the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time of
the alleged violation cannot be established, the law enforcement agency may
issue a written warning to the person who owned the vehicle at the time of the
alleged violation. However, in the case of a leased or rented vehicle, the law
enforcement agency shall issue the written warning to the person who leased or
rented the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation.
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section based on a
report filed under division (E)(1) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor and shall be fined $150.
         (b)   If a person who is issued a citation for a violation of division
(A) of this section based on a report filed under division (E)(1) of this
section does not enter a written plea of guilty and does not waive the person’s
right to contest the citation but instead appears in person in the proper court
to answer the charge, the trier of fact cannot find beyond a reasonable doubt
that the person committed that violation unless the emergency personnel who
filed the report appears in person in the court and testifies.
      (4)   As used in this division (E):
         LICENSE PLATE. Includes any temporary motor vehicle license
registration issued under R.C. § 4503.182 or similar law of another
jurisdiction.
         PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. Does not include an unmarked public safety
vehicle or a vehicle used by a public law enforcement officer or other person
sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state or a vehicle used
by the motor carrier enforcement unit for the enforcement of orders and rules
of the public utilities commission.
(R.C. § 4511.454)
§ 72.037 FUNERAL PROCESSION HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   As used in this section, FUNERAL PROCESSION means two or more vehicles
accompanying the cremated remains or the body of a deceased person in the
daytime when each of the vehicles has its  headlights lighted and is displaying
a purple and white or an orange and white pennant attached to each vehicle in
such a manner as to be clearly visible to traffic approaching from any
direction.
   (B)   Excepting public safety vehicles proceeding in accordance with R.C. §
4511.45 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or when directed
otherwise by a police officer, pedestrians and the operators of all vehicles
shall yield the right-of-way to each vehicle that is a part of a funeral
procession. Whenever the lead vehicle in a funeral procession lawfully enters
an intersection, the remainder of the vehicles in the procession may continue
to follow the lead vehicle through the intersection, notwithstanding any
traffic-control devices or right-of-way provisions of the Revised Code,
provided that the operator of each vehicle exercises due care to avoid
colliding with any other vehicle or pedestrian.
   (C)   No person shall operate any vehicle as a part of a funeral procession
without having the headlights of the vehicle lighted and without displaying a
purple and white or an orange and white pennant in such a manner as to be
clearly visible to traffic approaching from any direction.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.451)
§ 72.038 PEDESTRIANS YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY TO PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of a public safety vehicle, as stated in
R.C. § 4511.45 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, every
pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to the public safety vehicle.
   (B)   This section shall not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle
from the duty to exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.452)
§ 72.039 PEDESTRIAN ON CROSSWALK HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   When traffic-control signals are not in place, not in operation, or
are not clearly assigning the right-of-way, the driver of a vehicle shall yield
the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if need be to so yield, or if
required by R.C. § 4511.132 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk when the pedestrian is
upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is traveling, or when the
pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite half of the roadway as
to be in danger.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and
walk or run into the path of a vehicle which is so close as to constitute an
immediate hazard.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply under the conditions
stated in R.C. § 4511.48(B), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass the stopped vehicle.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (F)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.46)
§ 72.040 RIGHT-OF-WAY YIELDED TO BLIND PERSON.
   (A)   (1)   As used in this section BLIND PERSON or BLIND PEDESTRIAN means a
person having not more than 20/200 visual acuity in the better eye with
correcting lenses, or visual acuity greater than 20/200, but with a limitation
in the fields of vision such that the widest diameter of the visual field
subtends an angle no greater than 20°.
      (2)   The driver of every vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to every
blind pedestrian guided by a guide dog, or carrying a cane which is
predominantly white or metallic in color, with or without a red tip.
   (B)   No person, other than a blind person, while on any public highway,
street, alley, or other public thoroughfare, shall carry a white or metallic
cane, with or without a red tip.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.47)
§ 72.041 RIGHT-OF-WAY YIELDED BY PEDESTRIAN.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all traffic upon the roadway.
   (C)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
   (D)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway intersection diagonally unless
authorized by official traffic- control devices; and when authorized to cross
diagonally, pedestrians shall cross only in accordance with the official
traffic-control devices pertaining to such crossing movements.
   (E)   This section does not relieve the operator of a vehicle from
exercising due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any roadway.
   (F)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.48)
PEDESTRIANS
§ 72.050 PEDESTRIAN MOVEMENT IN CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.49)
§ 72.051 PEDESTRIAN WALKING ALONG HIGHWAY.
   (A)   Where a sidewalk is provided and its use is practicable, it shall be
unlawful for any pedestrian to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Where a sidewalk is not available, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall walk only on a shoulder, as far as practicable from the
edge of the roadway.
   (C)   Where neither a sidewalk nor a shoulder is available, any pedestrian
walking along and upon a highway shall walk as near as practicable to an
outside edge of the roadway, and, if on a two-way roadway, shall walk only on
the left side of the roadway.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. §§ 4511.13 and 4511.46, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, any pedestrian upon a roadway
shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.50)
§ 72.052 PROHIBITION AGAINST SOLICITING RIDES; RIDING ON OUTSIDE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person while on a roadway outside a safety zone shall solicit a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, no person
shall stand on a highway for the purpose of soliciting employment, business, or
contributions from the occupant of any vehicle.
      (2)   The Legislative Authority, by ordinance, may authorize the issuance
of a permit to a charitable organization to allow a person acting on behalf of
the organization to solicit charitable contributions from the occupant of a
vehicle by standing on a highway, other than a freeway as provided in R.C. §
4511.051(A)(1), that is under the jurisdiction of the municipality. The permit
shall be valid for only one period of time, which shall be specified in the
permit, in any calendar year. The Legislative Authority also may specify the
locations where contributions may be solicited and may impose any other
restrictions on or requirements regarding the manner in which the solicitations
are to be conducted that the Legislative Authority considers advisable.
      (3)   As used in division (B)(2) of this section, CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION
means an organization that has received from the Internal Revenue Service a
currently valid ruling or determination letter recognizing the tax-exempt
status of the organization pursuant to IRC 501(c)(3).
   (C)   No person shall hang onto or ride on the outside of any motor vehicle
while it is moving upon a roadway, except mechanics or test engineers making
repairs or adjustments, or workers performing specialized highway or street
maintenance or construction under authority of a public agency.
   (D)   No operator shall knowingly permit any person to hang onto or ride on
the outside of any motor vehicle while it is moving upon a roadway, except
mechanics or test engineers making repairs or adjustments, or workers
performing specialized highway or street maintenance or construction under
authority of a public agency.
   (E)   No driver of a truck, trailer, or semitrailer shall knowingly permit
any person who has not attained the age of 16 years to ride in the unenclosed
or unroofed cargo storage area of the driver’s vehicle if the vehicle is
traveling faster than 25 miles per hour, unless either of the following
applies:
      (1)   The cargo storage area of the vehicle is equipped with a properly
secured seat to which is attached a seat safety belt that is in compliance with
federal standards for an occupant restraining device as defined in R.C. §
4513.263(A)(2), the seat and seat safety belt were installed at the time the
vehicle was originally assembled, and the person riding in the cargo storage
area is in the seat and is wearing the seat safety belt; or
      (2)   An emergency exists that threatens the life of the driver or the
person being transported in the cargo storage area of the truck, trailer, or
semitrailer.
   (F)   No driver of a truck, trailer, or semitrailer shall permit any person,
except for those workers performing specialized highway or street maintenance
or construction under authority of a public agency, to ride in the cargo
storage area or on a tailgate of the driver’s vehicle while the tailgate is
unlatched.
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
any provision of divisions (A) through (D) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates any provision of divisions (A) through (D) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates any provision of
divisions (A) through (D) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (E) or (F) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.51)
§ 72.053 PEDESTRIAN ON BRIDGE OR RAILROAD CROSSING.
   (A)   No pedestrian shall enter or remain upon any bridge or approach
thereto beyond the bridge signal, gate, or barrier after a bridge operation
signal indication has been given.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over, or under any crossing
gate or barrier at a railroad grade crossing or bridge while the gate or
barrier is closed or is being opened or closed.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.511)
§ 72.054 PERSONS OPERATING MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIRS.
   Every person operating a motorized wheelchair shall have all of the rights
and duties applicable to a pedestrian that are contained in this chapter,
except those provisions which by their nature can have no application.
(R.C. § 4511.491)
§ 72.055 INTOXICATED OR DRUGGED PEDESTRIAN HAZARD ON HIGHWAY.
   (A)   A pedestrian who is under the influence of alcohol, any drug of abuse,
or any combination of them to a degree that renders the pedestrian a hazard
shall not walk or be upon a highway.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.481)
§ 72.056 OPERATION OF ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   Electric personal assistive mobility devices may be operated on
the public streets, highways, sidewalks, and paths and portions of roadways set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles in accordance with this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, those sections of
this Traffic Code that by their nature are applicable to an electric personal
assistive mobility device apply to the device and the person operating it
whenever it is operated upon any public street, highway, sidewalk, or path or
upon any portion of a roadway set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
      (3)   The municipality may regulate or prohibit the operation of electric
personal assistive mobility devices on public streets, highways, sidewalks, and
paths, or portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles,
under its jurisdiction.
   (B)   No operator of an electric personal assistive mobility device shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians and human-powered
vehicles at all times;
      (2)   Fail to give an audible signal before overtaking and passing a
pedestrian;
      (3)   Operate the device at night unless the device or its operator is
equipped with or wearing both of the following:
         (a)   A lamp pointing to the front that emits a white light visible
from a distance of not less than 500 feet;
         (b)   A red reflector facing the rear that is visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet when directly in front of lawful lower
beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle;
      (4)   Operate the device on any portion of a street or highway that has
an established speed limit of 55 miles per hour or more;
      (5)   Operate the device upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of
pedestrians or other specialized use when an appropriate sign giving notice of
the specialized use is posted on the path;
      (6)   If under 18 years of age, operate the device unless wearing a
protective helmet on the person’s head with the chin strap properly fastened;
      (7)   If under 16 years of age, operate the device unless, during the
operation, the person is under the direct visual and audible supervision of
another person who is 18 years of age or older and is responsible for the
immediate care of the person under 16 years of age.
   (C)   No person who is under 14 years of age shall operate an electric
personal assistive mobility device.
   (D)   No person shall distribute or sell an electric personal assistive
mobility device unless the device is accompanied by a written statement that is
substantially equivalent to the following: “WARNING: TO REDUCE THE RISK OF
SERIOUS INJURY, USE ONLY WHILE WEARING FULL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT – HELMET,
WRIST GUARDS, ELBOW PADS, AND KNEE PADS.”
   (E)   Nothing in this section affects or shall be construed to affect any
rule of the Director of Natural Resources or a board of park district
commissioners governing the operation of vehicles on lands under the control of
the Director or board, as applicable.
   (F)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (B) or (C) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor and shall be punished as follows:
         (a)   The offender shall be fined $10;
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (B) or (C) of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, the court, in addition to imposing
the fine required under division (F)(1)(a) of this section, shall do one of the
following:
            1.   Order the impoundment for not less than one day but not more
than 30 days of the electric personal assistive mobility device that was
involved in the current violation of that division. The court shall order the
device to be impounded at a safe indoor location designated by the court and
may assess storage fees of not more than $5 per day; provided the total
storage, processing, and release fees assessed against the offender or the
device in connection with the device’s impoundment or subsequent release shall
not exceed $50.
            2.    If the court does not issue an impoundment order pursuant to
division (F)(1)(b)1. of this section, issue an order prohibiting the offender
from operating any electric personal assistive mobility device on the public
streets, highways, sidewalks, and paths and portions of roadways set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles for not less than one day but not more than 30
days.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.512)
   (G)   As used in this Code, ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE
means a self-balancing two non-tandem wheeled device that is designed to
transport only one person, has an electric propulsion system of an average of
750 watts, and when ridden on a paved level surface by an operator who weighs
170 pounds has a maximum speed of less than 20 miles per hour.
(R.C. § 4501.01(TT))
§ 72.057 OPERATION OF PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE ON SIDEWALKS AND CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ELIGIBLE ENTITY. Means a corporation, partnership, association, firm,
sole proprietorship, or other entity engaged in business.
      PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE. Means an electrically powered device to which
all of the following apply:
         (a)   The device is intended primarily to transport property and cargo
on sidewalks and crosswalks.
         (b)   The device weighs less than 250 pounds excluding any property or
cargo being carried in the device.
         (c)   The device has a maximum speed of ten miles per hour.
         (d)   The device is equipped with technology that enables the
operation of the device with active control or monitoring by a person, without
active control or monitoring by a person, or both with or without active
control or monitoring by a person.
      PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE OPERATOR. Means an agent of an eligible entity
who exercises direct physical control over, or monitoring of, the navigation
and operation of a personal delivery device. The phrase does not include, with
respect to a delivery or other service rendered by a personal delivery device,
the person who requests the delivery or service. The phrase also does not
include a person who only arranges for and dispatches a personal delivery
device for a delivery or other service.
   (B)   An eligible entity may operate a personal delivery device on sidewalks
and crosswalks so long as all of the following requirements are met:
      (1)   The personal delivery device is operated in accordance with all
regulations, if any, established by each local authority within which the
personal delivery device is operated.
      (2)   A personal delivery device operator is actively controlling or
monitoring the navigation and operation of the personal delivery device.
      (3)   The eligible entity maintains an insurance policy that includes
general liability coverage of not less than $100,000 for damages arising from
the operation of the personal delivery device by the eligible entity and any
agent of the eligible entity.
      (4)   The device is equipped with all of the following:
         (a)   A marker that clearly identifies the name and contact
information of the eligible entity operating the personal delivery device and a
unique identification number;
         (b)   A braking system that enables the personal delivery device to
come to a controlled stop;
         (c)   If the personal delivery device is being operated between sunset
and sunrise, a light on both the front and rear of the personal delivery device
that is visible in clear weather from a distance of at least 500 feet to the
front and rear of the personal delivery device when directly in front of low
beams of headlights on a motor vehicle.
   (C)   No personal delivery device operator shall allow a personal delivery
device to do any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to comply with traffic or pedestrian control devices and
signals;
      (2)   Unreasonably interfere with pedestrians or traffic;
      (3)   Transport any hazardous material that would require a permit issued
by the Public Utilities Commission;
      (4)   Operate on a street or highway, except when crossing the street or
highway within a crosswalk.
   (D)   A personal delivery device has all of the rights and obligations
applicable to a pedestrian under the same circumstances, except that a personal
delivery device shall yield the right-of-way to human pedestrians on sidewalks
and crosswalks.
   (E)   (1)   No person shall operate a personal delivery device unless the
person is authorized to do so under this section and complies with the
requirements of this section.
      (2)   An eligible entity is responsible for both of the following:
         (a)   Any violation of this section that is committed by a personal
delivery device operator; and
         (b)   Any other circumstance, including a technological malfunction,
in which a personal delivery device operates in a manner prohibited by
divisions (C)(1) to (C)(4) of this section.
(R.C. § 4511.513) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.058 LOW-SPEED MICROMOBILITY DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   A low-speed micromobility device may be operated on the public
streets, highways, sidewalks, and shared-use paths, and may be operated on any
portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles in accordance
with this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, those sections of
this title that by their nature could apply to a low-speed micromobility device
do apply to the device and the person operating it whenever it is operated upon
any public street, highway, sidewalk, or shared-use path, or upon any portion
of a roadway set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (B)   No operator of a low-speed micromobility device shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Fail to yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians at all times;
      (2)   Fail to give an audible signal before overtaking and passing a
pedestrian;
      (3)   Operate the device at night unless the device or its operator is
equipped with or wearing both of the following:
         (a)   A lamp pointing to the front that emits a white light visible
from a distance of not less than 500 feet;
         (b)   A red reflector facing the rear that is visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet when directly in front of lawful lower
beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle.
   (C)   (1)   No person who is under 16 years of age shall rent a low-speed
micromobility device.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly rent a low-speed micromobility device to
a person who is under 16 years of age.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly rent a low-speed micromobility device on
behalf of a person who is under 16 years of age.
   (D)   No person shall operate a low-speed micromobility device at a speed
greater than 20 miles per hour.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Unless a mens rea is otherwise specified in this section, an
offense established under this section is a strict liability offense and R.C. §
2901.20 does not apply. The designation of that offense as a strict liability
offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for which there
is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
   (F)   Notwithstanding division (A)(1) of this section, the municipality,
county, township, metropolitan park district, township park district,
recreation district, or any division of the Ohio Department of Natural
Resources if the division has the approval of the Ohio Director of Natural
Resources may do any of the following:
      (1)   Regulate or prohibit the operation of low-speed micromobility
devices on public streets, highways, sidewalks, and shared-use paths, and
portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, under its
jurisdiction;
      (2)   Include low-speed micromobility devices that are adapted to expand
access for people with various physical limitations into a shared bicycle,
shared electric bicycle, or similar vehicle sharing program, under its
jurisdiction;
      (3)   Require the owner or operator of a low-speed micromobility device
rental service or low-speed micromobility device sharing program to maintain
commercial general liability insurance related to the operation of the devices,
with limits of up to $1,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 per aggregate.
(R.C. § 4511.514) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.059 SCHOOL CROSSING GUARDS TO DIRECT TRAFFIC IN SCHOOL ZONES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CROSSWALK. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.101(LL)(1) and (LL)(2).
      SCHOOL CROSSING. A crosswalk customarily used by children going to or
leaving a school during recess and opening and closing hours that is in the
vicinity of a school.
      SCHOOL CROSSING GUARD. An adult appointed as a school crossing guard by
the Village of Mogadore or any school district or school official authorized to
do so.
      SCHOOL ZONE. That portion of a street or highway passing a school
fronting upon the street or highway that is encompassed by projecting the
school property lines to the fronting street or highway, and also includes that
portion of the state highway if any. The distances described in this definition
shall not exceed 300 feet per approach per direction and are bounded by
whichever of the following distances or combinations thereof that the director
of public service approves as most appropriate:
         (a)   The distance encompassed by projecting the school building lines
normal to the fronting highway and extending a distance of 300 feet on each
approach direction;
         (b)   The distance encompassed by projecting the school property lines
intersecting the fronting highway and extending a distance of 300 feet on each
approach direction;
         (c)   The distance encompassed by the special marking of the pavement
for a principal school crosswalk plus a distance of 300 feet on each approach
direction of the highway.
   (B)   No person shall fail to comply with any lawful order or direction
given by a school crossing guard related to directing traffic at or around a
school crossing, including stopping a vehicle, streetcar, or trackless trolley
immediately upon the direction of the school crossing guard and remaining
stopped until the school crossing guard directs the driver to proceed.
   (C)   When a school crossing guard believes that a driver has violated
division (B) of this section, the school crossing guard may report the license
plate number, a general description of the vehicle, and a general description
of the driver of the vehicle to the Mogadore Police Department.
      (1)   A school crossing guard making the report described in this section
may rely upon information regarding the license plate number, the general
description of the vehicle, and the general description of the driver of the
vehicle at the time of the alleged violation that is supplied by a person with
first-hand knowledge of the information.
   (D)   If the identity of the driver at the time of the alleged violation is
established, the reporting of the license plate number of the vehicle shall
establish probable cause for the Village of Mogadore Police Department to issue
a citation for the violation of division (B) of this section.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(Ord. 2022-73, passed 11-16-22)
GRADE CROSSINGS
§ 72.065 STOP SIGNS AT GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   As used in this section, ACTIVE GRADE CROSSING WARNING DEVICE means
signs, signals, gates, or other protective devices erected or installed at a
public highway-railway crossing at common grade and activated by an electrical
circuit.
   (B)   The Department of Transportation and local authorities, with the
approval of the Department, may designate dangerous highway crossings over
railroad tracks and erect stop signs thereat.
   (C)   (1)   The Department and local authorities shall erect stop signs at a
railroad highway grade crossing in either of the following circumstances:
         (a)   New warning devices that are not active grade crossing warning
devices are being installed at the grade crossing, and railroad crossbucks were
the only warning devices at the grade crossing prior to the installation of the
new warning devices.
         (b)   The grade crossing is constructed after July 1, 2013, and only
warning devices that are not active grade crossing warning devices are
installed at the grade crossing.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to a railroad
highway grade crossing that the Director of Transportation has exempted from
that division because of traffic flow or other considerations or factors.
   (D)   When stop signs are erected pursuant to division (B) or (C) of this
section, the operator of any vehicle shall stop within 50, but not less than
15, feet from the nearest rail of the railroad tracks and shall exercise due
care before proceeding across such grade crossing.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (D) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (F)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.61)
§ 72.066 DRIVING VEHICLE ACROSS RAILROAD GRADE CROSSING.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad
grade crossing, the person shall stop within 50 feet, but not less than 15 feet
from the nearest rail of the railroad if any of the following circumstances
exist at the crossing:
         (a)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a train or other on-track equipment.
         (b)   A crossing gate is lowered.
         (c)   A flagperson gives or continues to give a signal of the approach
or passage of a train or other on-track equipment.
         (d)   There is insufficient space on the other side of the railroad
grade crossing to accommodate the vehicle the person is operating without
obstructing the passage of other vehicles, pedestrians, or railroad trains,
notwithstanding any traffic control signal indication to proceed.
         (e)   An approaching train is emitting an audible signal or is plainly
visible and is in hazardous proximity to the crossing.
         (f)   There is insufficient undercarriage clearance to safely
negotiate the crossing.
         (g)   There is insufficient space on the other side of the railroad
grade crossing to accommodate the vehicle the person is operating without
obstructing the passage of other on-track equipment.
         (h)   Approaching on-track equipment is emitting an audible signal or
is plainly visible and is in hazardous proximity to the crossing.
      (2)   (a)   A person who is driving a vehicle and who approaches a
railroad grade crossing shall not proceed as long as any of the circumstances
described in divisions (A)(1)(a) to (A)(1)(f) of this section exist at the
crossing.
         (b)   A person who is driving a vehicle and who approaches a railroad
grade crossing shall not recklessly proceed as long as any of the circumstances
described in division (A)(1)(g) or (A)(1)(h) of this section exist at the
crossing.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around, or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while the gate or barrier is
closed or is being opened or closed unless the person is signaled by a law
enforcement officer or flagperson that it is permissible to do so.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
      (2)   In lieu of a fine or jail term for a violation of this section, a
court may instead order the offender to attend and successfully complete a
remedial safety training or presentation regarding rail safety that is offered
by an authorized and qualified organization that is selected by the court. The
offender shall complete the presentation within a time frame determined by the
court, not to exceed 180 days after the court issues the order. The offender
shall notify the court of the successful completion of the presentation. When
the offender notifies the court of the successful completion of the
presentation, the court shall waive any fine or jail term that it otherwise
would have imposed for a violation of this section.
(R.C. § 4511.62)
§ 72.067 VEHICLES REQUIRED TO STOP AT GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, the operator of
any bus, any school vehicle, or any vehicle transporting a material or
materials required to be placarded under 49 C.F.R. Parts 100 through 185,
before crossing at grade any track of a railroad, shall stop the vehicle and,
while so stopped, shall listen through an open door or open window and look in
both directions along the track for any approaching train or other on-track
equipment, and for signals indicating the approach of a train or other on-track
equipment, and shall proceed only upon exercising due care after stopping,
looking, and listening as required by this section. Upon proceeding, the
operator of such a vehicle shall cross only in a gear that will ensure there
will be no necessity for changing gears while traversing the crossing and shall
not shift gears while crossing the tracks.
   (B)   This section does not apply at grade crossings when any local
authority has filed an application with the Public Utilities Commission
requesting the approval of an exempt crossing, and the Public Utilities
Commission has authorized and approved an exempt crossing as provided in R.C. §
4511.63(B).
   (C)   As used in this section:
      BUS. Means any vehicle originally designed by its manufacturer to
transport 16 or more passengers, including the driver, or carries 16 or more
passengers, including the driver.
      EXEMPT CROSSING. Means a highway rail grade crossing authorized and
approved by the Public Utilities Commission under R.C. § 4511.63(B) at which
vehicles may cross without making the stop otherwise required by this section.
      SCHOOL VEHICLE. Means any vehicle used for the transportation of pupils
to and from a school or school-related function if the vehicle is owned or
operated by, or operated under contract with, a public or nonpublic school.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, 4511.77, or 4511.79, or
a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of those
sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.63)
§ 72.068 SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES OR EQUIPMENT CROSSING RAILROAD TRACKS.
   (A)   No person shall operate or move any crawler-type tractor, steam
shovel, derrick, roller, or any equipment or structure having a normal
operating speed of six or less miles per hour or a vertical body or load
clearance of less than nine inches above the level surface of a roadway, upon
or across any tracks at a railroad grade crossing without first complying with
divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) of this section.
      (1)   Before making any such crossing, the person operating or moving any
such vehicle or equipment shall first stop the same, and while stopped the
person shall listen and look in both directions along such track for any
approaching train or other on-track equipment and for signals indicating the
approach of a train or other on-track equipment, and shall proceed only upon
exercising due care.
      (2)   No such crossing shall be made when warning is given by automatic
signal or crossing gates or a flagperson or otherwise of the immediate approach
of a railroad train or car or other on-track equipment.
   (B)   If the normal sustained speed of the vehicle, equipment, or structure
is not more than three miles per hour, the person owning, operating, or moving
the same shall also give notice of the intended crossing to a station agent or
superintendent of the railroad, and a reasonable time shall be given to the
railroad to provide proper protection for the crossing. Where the vehicles or
equipment are being used in constructing or repairing a section of highway
lying on both sides of a railroad grade crossing, and in this construction or
repair it is necessary to repeatedly move the vehicles or equipment over the
crossing, one daily notice specifying when the work will start and stating the
hours during which it will be prosecuted is sufficient.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.64)
PROHIBITIONS
§ 72.075 OBSTRUCTION AND INTERFERENCE AFFECTING VIEW AND CONTROL OF DRIVER.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there
are in the front seat such number of persons, as to obstruct the view of the
driver to the front or sides of the vehicle, or to interfere with the driver’s
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in a position as to interfere
with the driver’s view ahead or to the sides, or to interfere with the driver’s
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall open the door of a vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, and can be done
without interfering with the movement of other traffic, nor shall any person
leave a door open on the side of a vehicle available to moving traffic for a
period of time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.70)
§ 72.076 OCCUPYING TRAVEL TRAILER, FIFTH WHEEL VEHICLE, OR MANUFACTURED OR
MOBILE HOME WHILE IN MOTION.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no person shall
occupy any travel trailer, fifth wheel trailer, or manufactured or mobile home
while it is being used as a conveyance upon a street or highway.
   (B)   (1)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a fifth wheel
trailer when both of the following apply:
         (a)   Any child riding in the fifth wheel trailer is properly secured
in the manner provided in R.C. § 4511.81.
         (b)   The operator of the vehicle towing the fifth wheel trailer has
some means of viable communication with the passengers riding in the trailer.
      (2)   As used in this division, "viable communication" includes a
cellular or satellite telephone, a radio, or any other similar electronic
wireless communications device.
   (C)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   The offense established under this section is a strict liability
offense and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of this offense as a
strict liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other
offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict
liability offense.
(R.C. § 4511.701)
§ 72.077 DRIVING UPON CLOSED HIGHWAY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall drive upon, along, or across a street or highway, or
any part of a street or highway that has been closed in the process of its
construction, reconstruction, or repair, and posted with appropriate signs by
the authority having jurisdiction to close the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.71(A))
   (B)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle on or onto a public street or
highway that is temporarily covered by a rise in water level, including
groundwater or an overflow of water, and that is clearly marked by a sign that
specifies that the road is closed due to the rise in water level and that any
person who uses the closed portion of the road may be fined up to $2,000.
      (2)   A person who is issued a citation for a violation of division (B)
(1) of this section is not permitted to enter a written plea of guilty and
waive the person’s right to contest the citation in court, but instead must
appear in person in the proper court to answer the charge.
(R.C. § 4511.714(A), (B))
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If,
within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of
or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
         (b)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under § 70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.71(B))
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   In addition to the financial sanctions authorized or required
under R.C. § 2929.28 and to any costs otherwise authorized or required under
any provision of law, the court imposing the sentence upon an offender who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of division (B) of this section
shall order the offender to reimburse one or more rescuers for the cost any
such rescuer incurred in rescuing the person, excluding any cost of
transporting the rescued person to a hospital or other facility for treatment
of injuries, up to a cumulative maximum of $2,000. If more than one rescuer was
involved in the emergency response, the court shall allocate the reimbursement
proportionately, according to the cost each rescuer incurred. A financial
sanction imposed under this section is a judgment in favor of the rescuer and,
subject to a determination of indigency under R.C. § 2929.28(B), a rescuer may
collect the financial sanction in the same manner as provided in R.C. §
2929.28.
(R.C. § 4511.714(C))
   (D)   As used in this section:
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICE ORGANIZATION. Has the same meanings as in R.C.
§ 9.60.
      FIREFIGHTING AGENCY. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 9.60.
      PRIVATE FIRE COMPANY. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 9.60.
      RESCUER. Means a state agency, political subdivision, firefighting
agency, private fire company, or emergency medical service organization.
(R.C. § 4511.714(D))
§ 72.078 DRIVING UPON SIDEWALK AREA OR PATHS EXCLUSIVELY FOR BICYCLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall drive any vehicle, other than a bicycle or an
electric bicycle if the motor is not engaged, upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area,
except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway.
      (2)   This prohibition does not apply to a law enforcement officer, or
other person sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state, using
an electric bicycle with the motor engaged while in the performance of the
officer’s duties.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting local
authorities from regulating the operation of bicycles or electric bicycles,
except that no local authority may require that bicycles or electric bicycles
be operated on sidewalks.
(R.C. § 4511.711(A))
   (B)   (1)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, snowmobile, or all-
purpose vehicle upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, when
an appropriate sign giving notice of such use is posted on the path.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect any rule of
the Director of Natural Resources governing the operation of motor vehicles,
snowmobiles, all-purpose vehicles, and bicycles on lands under the Director’s
jurisdiction.
(R.C. § 4511.713(A))
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. §§ 4511.711(B), 4511.713(B))
§ 72.079 OBSTRUCTING PASSAGE OF OTHER VEHICLES.
   (A)   No driver shall enter an intersection or marked crosswalk, or drive
onto any railroad grade crossing, unless there is sufficient space on the other
side of the intersection, crosswalk, or grade crossing to accommodate the
vehicle the driver is operating without obstructing the passage of other
vehicles, pedestrians, or railroad trains, notwithstanding any traffic-control
signal indication to proceed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.712)
§ 72.080 FOLLOWING AN EMERGENCY OR PUBLIC VEHICLE PROHIBITED; APPROACHING
STATIONARY PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE AND CERTAIN OTHER VEHICLES WITH CAUTION.
   (A)   Following an emergency or public vehicle prohibited. The driver of any
vehicle, other than an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle on official
business, shall not follow any emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle
traveling in response to an alarm closer than 500 feet, or drive into or park
the vehicle within the block where the fire apparatus has stopped in answer to
a fire alarm, unless directed to do so by a police officer or a firefighter.
(R.C. § 4511.72(A))
   (B)   Approaching stationary public safety vehicle with caution.
      (1)   The driver of a motor vehicle, upon approaching a stationary public
safety vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle, waste collection
vehicle, vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to conduct motor
vehicle inspections in accordance with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and 4923.06, or a
highway maintenance vehicle that is displaying the appropriate visual signals
by means of flashing, oscillating, or rotating lights, as prescribed in R.C. §
4513.17, shall do either of the following:
         (a)   If the driver of the motor vehicle is traveling on a highway
that consists of at least two lanes that carry traffic in the same direction of
travel as that of the driver’s motor vehicle, the driver shall proceed with due
caution and, if possible and with due regard to the road, weather, and traffic
conditions, shall change lanes into a lane that is not adjacent to that of the
stationary public safety vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle,
waste collection vehicle, vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to
conduct motor vehicle inspections in accordance with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and
4923.06, or a highway maintenance vehicle.
         (b)   If the driver is not traveling on a highway of a type described
in division (B)(1)(a) of this section, or if the driver is traveling on a
highway of that type but it is not possible to change lanes or if to do so
would be unsafe, the driver shall proceed with due caution, reduce the speed of
the motor vehicle, and maintain a safe speed for the road, weather, and traffic
conditions.
      (2)   This division (B) does not relieve the driver of a public safety
vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle, waste collection vehicle,
vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to conduct motor vehicle
inspections in accordance with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and 4923.06, or a highway
maintenance vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of
all persons and property upon the highway.
      (3)   No person shall fail to drive a motor vehicle in compliance with
divisions (B)(1)(a) or (B)(1)(b) of this section when so required by division
(B) of this section.
(R.C. § 4511.213(A) - (C))
   (C)   Penalty.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Notwithstanding §
130.99 or R.C. § 2929.28, upon a finding that a person operated a motor vehicle
in violation of division (B)(3) of this section, the court, in addition to all
other penalties provided by law, shall impose a fine of two times the usual
amount imposed for the violation.
      (3)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. §§ 4511.213(D), 4511.72(B))
   (E)   The offense established under division (B) of this section is a strict
liability offense and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of this
offense as a strict liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any
other offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a
strict liability offense.
(R.C. §§ 4511.213(E))
§ 72.081 DRIVING OVER UNPROTECTED FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall, without the consent of the fire department official
in command, be driven over any unprotected hose of a fire department that is
laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any fire or alarm of
fire.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.73)
§ 72.082 PLACING INJURIOUS MATERIAL ON HIGHWAY OR DEPOSITING LITTER FROM MOTOR
VEHICLE.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a
highway, lane, road, street, or alley any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails,
or other articles which may damage or injure any person, vehicle, or animal
traveling along or upon the highway, except such substances that may be placed
upon the roadway by proper authority for the repair or construction thereof.
      (2)   Any person who drops or permits to be dropped or thrown upon any
highway any destructive or injurious material shall immediately remove the
same.
      (3)   Any person authorized to remove a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a
highway shall remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the
highway from such vehicle.
      (4)   No person shall place any obstruction in or upon a highway without
proper authority.
   (B)   No person, with intent to cause physical harm to a person or a
vehicle, shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a highway, lane, road,
street, or alley any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails, or other articles
which may damage or injure any person, vehicle, or animal traveling along or
upon such highway, except such substances that may be placed upon the roadway
by proper authority for the repair or construction thereof.
(R.C. § 4511.74(A), (B))
   (C)   No operator or occupant of a motor vehicle shall, regardless of
intent, throw, drop, discard, or deposit litter from any motor vehicle in
operation upon any street, road, or highway, except into a litter receptacle in
a manner that prevents its being carried away or deposited by the elements.
   (D)   No operator of a motor vehicle in operation upon any street, road, or
highway shall allow litter to be thrown, dropped, discarded, or deposited from
the motor vehicle, except into a litter receptacle in a manner that prevents
its being carried away or deposited by the elements.
   (E)   As used in this section, LITTER means garbage, trash, waste, rubbish,
ashes, cans, bottles, wire, paper, cartons, boxes, automobile parts, furniture,
glass, or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature.
(R.C. § 4511.82(A), (B), (D))
   (F)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4511.74(C))
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.82(C))
   (G)   Persons who violate divisions (A), (B), (C), and/or (D) of this
section shall be responsible for reimbursement to the village for any cost
incurred by the village for removing or relocating such materials or litter.
The village shall utilize the current and published FEMA schedule for costs and
equipment, as applicable. Failure to pay the total cost within 30 days after
notice from the Clerk-Treasurer shall entitle the village to certify the same
to the Summit or Portage County, depending on the location of the offense, to
be entered upon the tax duplicate be a lien upon the land owner, if applicable,
to be collected as other taxes and assessments and returned to the village
pursuant to R.C. § 731.54. The remedy provided for herein shall be in addition
to the penalties provided in division (F) of this section. (Ord. 2018-73,
passed 9-19-18)
§ 72.083 TRANSPORTING CHILD NOT IN CHILD RESTRAINT SYSTEM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   When any child who is in either or both of the following categories is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4511.01, that is required by the United States
Department of Transportation to be equipped with seat belts at the time of
manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child
properly secured in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions in a child
restraint system that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards:
      (1)   A child who is less than four years of age;
      (2)   A child who weighs less than 40 pounds.
   (B)   When any child who is in either or both of the following categories is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab, that is owned,
leased, or otherwise under the control of a nursery school or child care
center, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child properly secured
in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions in a child restraint system
that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards:
      (1)   A child who is less than four years of age;
      (2)   A child who weighs less than 40 pounds.
   (C)   When any child who is less than eight years of age and less than four
feet nine inches in height, who is not required by division (A) or (B) of this
section to be secured in a child restraint system, is being transported in a
motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 4511.01 or a vehicle that is regulated under R.C. § 5104.015, that is
required by the United States Department of Transportation to be equipped with
seat belts at the time of manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor
vehicle shall have the child properly secured in accordance with the
manufacturer’s instructions on a booster seat that meets federal motor vehicle
safety standards.
   (D)   When any child who is at least eight years of age but not older than
15 years of age, and who is not otherwise required by division (A), (B), or (C)
of this section to be secured in a child restraint system or booster seat, is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4511.01, that is required by the United States
Department of Transportation to be equipped with seat belts at the time of
manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child
properly restrained either in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions
in a child restraint system that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards
or in an occupant restraining device as defined in R.C. § 4513.263.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause an operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section has been
or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or
summons for a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section or causing the
arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for a violation of division
(C) or (D) of this section, and absent another violation of law, a law
enforcement officer’s view of the interior or visual inspection of a motor
vehicle being operated on any street or highway may not be used for the purpose
of determining whether a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section has
been or is being committed.
   (F)   The Director of Public Safety shall adopt such rules as are necessary
to carry out this section.
   (G)   The failure of an operator of a motor vehicle to secure a child in a
child restraint system, a booster seat, or an occupant restraining device as
required in this section is not negligence imputable to the child, is not
admissible as evidence in any civil action involving the rights of the child
against any other person allegedly liable for injuries to the child, is not to
be used as a basis for a criminal prosecution of the operator of the motor
vehicle other than a prosecution for a violation of this section, and is not
admissible as evidence in any criminal action involving the operator of the
motor vehicle other than a prosecution for a violation of this section.
   (H)   This section does not apply when an emergency exists that threatens
the life of any person operating or occupying a motor vehicle that is being
used to transport a child who otherwise would be required to be restrained
under this section. This section does not apply to a person operating a motor
vehicle who has an affidavit signed by a physician licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4731, a clinical nurse specialist or certified nurse
practitioner licensed to practice in this state under R.C. Chapter 4723, or a
chiropractor licensed to practice in this state under R.C. Chapter 4734 that
states that the child who otherwise would be required to be restrained under
this section has a physical impairment that makes use of a child restraint
system, booster seat, or an occupant restraining device impossible or
impractical, provided that the person operating the vehicle has safely and
appropriately restrained the child in accordance with any recommendations of
the physician, nurse, or chiropractor as noted on the affidavit.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any person to
carry with the person the birth certificate of a child to prove the age of the
child, but the production of a valid birth certificate for a child showing that
the child was not of an age to which this section applies is a defense against
any ticket, citation, or summons issued for violating this section.
   (J)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A), (B), (C), or (D) of this section
shall be punished as follows, provided that the failure of an operator of a
motor vehicle to secure more than one child in a child restraint system,
booster seat, or occupant restraining device as required by this section that
occurred at the same time, on the same day, and at the same location is deemed
to be a single violation of this section:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (J)(1)(b) of this
section, the offender is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not
less than $25 nor more than $75.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (A), (B), (C), or (D) of this section or of a
state law or municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent any of those
divisions, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   All fines imposed pursuant to division (J)(1) of this section shall
be forwarded to the State Treasurer for deposit in the Child Highway Safety
Fund created by R.C. § 4511.81(I).
(R.C. § 4511.81(A)-(H), (K), (L))
§ 72.084 OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AUTOMOBILE. Any commercial tractor, passenger car, commercial car, or
truck that is required to be factory-equipped with an occupant restraining
device for the operator or any passenger by regulations adopted by the United
States Secretary of Transportation pursuant to the “National Traffic and Motor
Vehicle Safety Act of 1966,” 80 Stat. 719, 15 U.S.C. § 1392.
      COMMERCIAL TRACTOR, PASSENGER CAR, and COMMERCIAL CAR have the same
meanings as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE. A seat safety belt, shoulder belt, harness,
or other safety device for restraining a person who is an operator of or
passenger in an automobile and that satisfies the minimum federal vehicle
safety standards established by the United States Department of Transportation.
      PASSENGER. Any person in an automobile, other than its operator, who is
occupying a seating position for which an occupant restraining device is
provided.
      TORT ACTION. A civil action for damages for injury, death, or loss to
person or property. TORT ACTION includes a product liability claim, as defined
in R.C. § 2307.71, and as asbestos claim, as defined in R.C. § 2307.91, but
does not include a civil action for damages for breach of contract or another
agreement between persons.
      VEHICLE and MOTOR VEHICLE. As used in the definitions of the terms set
forth above, VEHICLE and MOTOR VEHICLE have the same meanings as in R.C. §
4511.01.
   (B)   Prohibited acts. No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate an automobile on any street or highway unless he or she is
wearing all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant
restraining device, or operate a school bus that has an occupant restraining
device installed for use in its operator’s seat unless he or she is wearing all
of the available elements of the device, as properly adjusted.
      (2)   Operate an automobile on any street or highway unless each
passenger in the automobile who is subject to the requirement set forth in
division (B)(3) of this section is wearing all of the available elements of a
properly adjusted occupant restraining device.
      (3)   Occupy, as a passenger, a seating position on the front seat of an
automobile being operated on any street or highway unless he or she is wearing
all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining
device.
      (4)   Operate a taxicab on any street or highway unless all factory-
equipped occupant restraining devices in the taxicab are maintained in usable
form.
   (C)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Division (B)(3) of this section does not apply to a person who is
required by R.C. § 4511.81 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to
be secured in a child restraint device or booster seat.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
an employee of the United States Postal Service or of a newspaper home delivery
service, during any period in which the person is engaged in the operation of
an automobile to deliver mail or newspapers to addressees.
      (3)   Divisions (B)(1) and (B)(3) of this section do not apply to a
person who has an affidavit signed by a physician licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4731 or a chiropractor licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4734 that states the following:
         (a)   That the person has a physical impairment that makes use of an
occupant restraining device impossible or impractical;
         (b)   Whether the physical impairment is temporary, permanent, or
reasonably expected to be permanent;
         (c)   If the physical impairment is temporary, how long the physical
impairment is expected to make the use of an occupant restraining device
impossible or impractical.
      (4)   Divisions (B)(1) and (B)(3) of this section do not apply to a
person who has registered with the Registrar of Motor Vehicles in accordance
with division (C)(5) of this section.
      (5)   A person who has received an affidavit under division (C)(3) of
this section stating that the person has a permanent or reasonably expected to
be permanent physical impairment that makes use of an occupant restraining
device impossible or impracticable may register with the Registrar of Motor
Vehicles attesting to that fact. Upon such registration, the Registrar shall
make that information available in the law enforcement automated data system. A
person included in the database under division (C)(5) of this section is not
required to have the affidavit obtained in accordance with division (C)(3) of
this section in their possession while operating or occupying an automobile.
      (6)   A physician or chiropractor who issues an affidavit for the
purposes of division (C)(3) or (C)(4) of this section is immune from civil
liability arising from any injury or death sustained by the person who was
issued the affidavit due to the failure of the person to wear an occupant
restraining device unless the physician or chiropractor, in issuing the
affidavit, acted in a manner that constituted willful, wanton, or reckless
misconduct.
      (7)   The Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall adopt rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 establishing a process for a person to be included in the
database under division (C)(5) of this section. The information provided and
included in the database under division (C)(5) of this section is not a public
record subject to inspection or copying under R.C. § 149.43.
   (D)   Officers not permitted to stop cars to determine violation.
Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law enforcement
officer shall cause an operator of an automobile being operated on any street
or highway to stop the automobile for the sole purpose of determining whether a
violation of division (B) of this section has been or is being committed or for
the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or summons for the violation or
for causing the arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for the
violation. No law enforcement officer shall view the interior or visually
inspect any automobile being operated on any street or highway for the sole
purpose of determining whether the violation has been or is being committed.
   (E)   Use of fines for educational program. All fines collected for
violations of division (B) of this section shall be forwarded to the State
Treasurer for deposit in the funds as set forth in R.C. § 4513.263(E).
   (F)   Limitations on evidence used for prosecution.
      (1)   Subject to division (F)(2) of this section, the failure of a person
to wear all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant
restraining device in violation of division (B)(1) or (B)(3) of this section or
the failure of a person to ensure that each minor who is a passenger of an
automobile being operated by that person is wearing all of the available
elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device in violation of
division (B)(2) of this section shall not be considered or used by the trier of
fact in a tort action as evidence of negligence or contributory negligence.
But, the trier of fact may determine based on evidence admitted consistent with
the Ohio Rules of Evidence that the failure contributed to the harm alleged in
the tort action and may diminish a recovery of compensatory damages that
represents non-economic loss, as defined in R.C. § 2307.011, in a tort action
that could have been recovered but for the plaintiff’s failure to wear all of
the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device.
Evidence of that failure shall not be used as a basis for a criminal
prosecution of the person other than a prosecution for a violation of this
section; and shall not be admissible as evidence in a criminal action involving
the person other than a prosecution for a violation of this section.
      (2)   If, at the time of an accident involving a passenger car equipped
with occupant restraining devices, any occupant of the passenger car who
sustained injury or death was not wearing an available occupant restraining
device, was not wearing all of the available elements of such a device, or was
not wearing such a device as properly adjusted, then, consistent with the Rules
of Evidence, the fact that the occupant was not wearing the available occupant
restraining device, was not wearing all of the available elements of such a
device, or was not wearing such a device as properly adjusted is admissible in
evidence in relation to any claim for relief in a tort action to the extent
that the claim for relief satisfies all of the following:
         (a)   It seeks to recover damages for injury or death to the occupant;
         (b)   The defendant in question is the manufacturer, designer,
distributor, or seller of the passenger car;
         (c)   The claim for relief against the defendant in question is that
the injury or death sustained by the occupant was enhanced or aggravated by
some design defect in the passenger car or that the passenger car was not
crashworthy.
   (G)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section shall be fined
$30.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) shall be subject to the penalty
set forth in §
70.99(B).
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) of this section shall be fined
$20.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (B)(4) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of
division (B)(4) of this section, whoever violates division (B)(4) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4513.263)
Cross-reference:
   Child restraint systems, see §
72.083
   Installation and sale of seat safety belts, see §
74.33
   School bus operators, restraining devices, see §
72.109
§ 72.085 OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE WHILE WEARING EARPHONES OR EARPLUGS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      EARPHONES. Any device that covers all or a portion of both ears and that
does either of the following:
         (a)   Through either a physical connection to another device or a
wireless connection, provides the listener with radio programs, music, or other
information;
         (b)   Provides hearing protection.
      EARPHONES does not include speakers or other listening devices that are
built into protective headgear.
      EARPLUGS. Any device that can be inserted into one or both ears and that
does either of the following:
         (a)   Through either a physical connection to another device or a
wireless connection, provides the listener with radio programs, music, or other
information;
         (b)   Provides hearing protection.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle while wearing earphones over,
or earplugs in, both ears.
   (C)   This section does not apply to:
      (1)   Any person wearing a hearing aid;
      (2)   Law enforcement personnel while on duty;
      (3)   Fire Department personnel and emergency medical service personnel
while on duty;
      (4)   Any person engaged in the operation of equipment for use in the
maintenance or repair of any highway;
      (5)   Any person engaged in the operation of refuse collection equipment;
      (6)   Any person wearing earphones or earplugs for hearing protection
while operating a motorcycle.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.84)
§ 72.086 CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINES AND LIVERY SERVICES.
   (A)   The operator of a chauffeured limousine shall accept passengers only
on the basis of prearranged contracts, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01, and shall
not cruise in search of patronage unless the limousine is in compliance with
any statute or ordinance governing the operation of taxicabs or other similar
vehicles for hire.
   (B)   The operator of a chauffeured limousine may provide transportation to
passengers who arrange for the transportation through an intermediary,
including a digital dispatching service. Notwithstanding any law to the
contrary, when providing transportation arranged through an intermediary, the
operator of a chauffeured limousine may establish the fare and method of fare
calculation, so long as the method of fare calculation is provided to the
passenger upon request.
   (C)   No person shall advertise or hold himself or herself out as doing
business as a limousine service or livery service or other similar designation
unless each vehicle used by the person to provide the service is registered in
accordance with R.C. § 4503.24 and is in compliance with R.C. § 4509.80.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.85)
Statutory reference:
   Chauffeured limousine, motor vehicle licensing, see R.C. § 4503.24
   Proof of financial responsibility, see R.C. § 4509.80
§ 72.087 OPERATING TRACTION ENGINE UPON IMPROVED HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   No person shall drive over the improved highways of this municipality
a traction engine or tractor with tires or wheels equipped with ice picks,
spuds, spikes, chains or other projections of any kind extending beyond the
cleats, and no person shall tow or in any way pull another vehicle over the
improved highways of this municipality which towed or pulled vehicle has tires
or wheels equipped with ice picks, spuds, spikes, chains or other projections
of any kind. TRACTION ENGINE or TRACTOR, as used in this section, applies to
all self-propelling engines equipped with metal-tired wheels operated or
propelled by any form of engine, motor or mechanical power.
   (B)   This municipality shall not adopt, enforce, or maintain any ordinance,
rule or regulation contrary to or inconsistent with division (A), nor shall
this municipality require any license tax upon or registration fee for any
traction engine, tractor, or trailer, or any permit or license to operate.
Operators of traction engines or tractors shall have the same rights upon the
public streets and highways as the drivers of any other vehicles, unless some
other safe and convenient way is provided, and no public road open to traffic
shall be closed to traction engines or tractors.
(R.C. § 5589.08)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 5589.99(B))
§ 72.088 CRACKING EXHAUST NOISES; PEELING OUT.
   No person shall operate any motor vehicle, except when necessary for safe
operation, or in compliance with the law, in such a manner that the vehicle is
so rapidly accelerated or started from a stopped position, or in the shifting
of gears while in motion, that the exhaust system emits a loud, cracking or
chattering noise unusual to its normal operation, or that the rubber tires of
such vehicle squeal or leave tire marks on the roadway, commonly known as
“peeling out”.
(Ord. 51, passed 11-7-01) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.089 SHORTCUTTING ACROSS PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No operator of a motor vehicle shall enter upon private property for the
sole purpose of driving across such property, between abutting streets or other
public ways thereof. The failure to stop on such property in connection with or
in furtherance of the enterprise or activities being conducted on the property
shall constitute prima facie evidence of the violation.
(Ord. 51, passed 11-7-01) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.090 PROHIBITING OPERATION OF A MOTOR VEHICLE WHILE USING OR HOLDING AN
ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATION DEVICE; DRIVING WHILE TEXTING.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, trackless trolley, or
streetcar on any street, highway, or property open to the public for vehicular
traffic while using, holding, or physically supporting with any part of the
person's body an electronic wireless communications device.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device to make
contact, for emergency purposes, with a law enforcement agency, hospital or
health care provider, fire department, or other similar emergency agency or
entity;
      (2)   A person driving a public safety vehicle while using an electronic
wireless communications device in the course of the person's duties;
      (3)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device when
the person's motor vehicle is in a stationary position and is outside a lane of
travel, at a traffic control signal that is currently directing traffic to
stop, or parked on a road or highway due to an emergency or road closure;
      (4)   A person using and holding an electronic wireless communications
device directly near the person's ear for the purpose of making, receiving, or
conducting a telephone call, provided that the person does not manually enter
letters, numbers, or symbols into the device;
      (5)   A person receiving wireless messages on an electronic wireless
communications device regarding the operation or navigation of a motor vehicle;
safety-related information, including emergency, traffic, or weather alerts; or
data used primarily by the motor vehicle, provided that the person does not
hold or support the device with any part of the person's body;
      (6)   A person using the speaker phone function of the electronic
wireless communications device, provided that the person does not hold or
support the device with any part of the person's body;
      (7)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device for
navigation purposes, provided that the person does not do either of the
following during the use:
         (a)   Manually enter letters, numbers, or symbols into the device;
         (b)   Hold or support the device with any part of the person's body;
      (8)   A person using a feature or function of the electronic wireless
communications device with a single touch or single swipe, provided that the
person does not do either of the following during the use:
         (a)   Manually enter letters, numbers, or symbols into the device;
         (b)   Hold or support the device with any part of the person's body;
      (9)   A person operating a commercial truck while using a mobile data
terminal that transmits and receives data;
      (10)   A person operating a utility service vehicle or a vehicle for or
on behalf of a utility, if the person is acting in response to an emergency,
power outage, or circumstance that affects the health or safety of individuals;
      (11)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device in
conjunction with a voice-operated or hands-free feature or function of the
vehicle or of the device without the use of either hand except to activate,
deactivate, or initiate the feature or function with a single touch or swipe,
provided the person does not hold or support the device with any part of the
person's body;
      (12)   A person using technology that physically or electronically
integrates the device into the motor vehicle, provided that the person does not
do either of the following during the use:
         (a)   Manually enter letters, numbers, or symbols into the device;
         (b)   Hold or support the device with any part of the person's body.
      (13)   A person storing an electronic wireless communications device in a
holster, harness, or article of clothing on the person's body.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
operating a motor vehicle while using an electronic wireless communication
device, a minor misdemeanor.
         (a)   Except as provided in divisions (C)(1)(b), (c), (d), and (2) of
this section, the court shall impose upon the offender a fine of not more than
$150.
         (b)   If, within two years of the violation, the offender has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one prior violation of this section or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court shall impose upon the
offender a fine of not more than $250.
         (c)   If, within two years of the violation, the offender has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more prior violations of this section
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court shall impose upon
the offender a fine of not more than $500. The court also may impose a
suspension of the offender's driver's license, commercial driver's license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege for 90 days.
         (d)   Notwithstanding divisions (C)(1)(a) to (c) of this section, if
the offender was operating the motor vehicle at the time of the violation in a
construction zone where a sign was posted in accordance with R.C. § 4511.98,
the court, in addition to all other penalties provided by law, shall impose
upon the offender a fine of two times the amount imposed for the violation
under division (C)(1)(a), (b), or (c) of this section, as applicable.
      (2)   In lieu of payment of the fine of $150 under division (C)(1)(a) of
this section and the assessment of points under division (C)(4) of this
section, the offender instead may elect to attend the distracted driving safety
course, as described in § 70.99 and R.C. § 4511.991. If the offender attends
and successfully completes the course, the offender shall be issued written
evidence that the offender successfully completed the course. The offender
shall not be required to pay the fine and shall not have the points assessed
against that offender's driver's license if the offender submits the written
evidence to the court.
      (3)   The court may impose any other penalty authorized under R.C. §§
2929.21 to 2929.28. However, the court shall not impose a fine or a suspension
not otherwise specified in division (C)(1) of this section. The court also
shall not impose a jail term or community residential sanction.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, points shall
be assessed for a violation of division (A) of this section in accordance with
R.C. § 4510.036.
      (5)   The offense established under this section is a strict liability
offense and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of this offense as a
strict liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other
offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict
liability offense.
   (D)   (1)   A law enforcement officer does not have probable cause and shall
not stop the operator of a motor vehicle for purposes of enforcing this section
unless the officer visually observes the operator using, holding, or physically
supporting with any part of the person's body the electronic wireless
communications device.
      (2)   A law enforcement officer who stops the operator of a motor
vehicle, trackless trolley, or streetcar for a violation of division (A) of
this section shall inform the operator that the operator may decline a search
of the operator's electronic wireless communications device. The officer shall
not do any of the following:
         (a)   Access the device without a warrant, unless the operator
voluntarily and unequivocally gives consent for the officer to access the
device;
         (b)   Confiscate the device while awaiting the issuance of a warrant
to access the device;
         (c)   Obtain consent from the operator to access the device through
coercion or any other improper means. Any consent by the operator to access the
device shall be voluntary and unequivocal before the officer may access the
device without a warrant.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      (1)   ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE includes any of the
following:
         (a)   A wireless telephone;
         (b)   A text-messaging device;
         (c)   A personal digital assistant;
         (d)   A computer, including a laptop computer and a computer tablet;
         (e)   Any device capable of displaying a video, movie, broadcast
television image, or visual image;
         (f)   Any other substantially similar wireless device that is designed
or used to communicate text, initiate or receive communication, or exchange
information or data.
   An ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE does not include a two-way
radio transmitter or receiver used by a person who is licensed by the Federal
Communications Commission to participate in the amateur radio service.
      (2)   VOICE-OPERATED OR HANDS-FREE FEATURE OR FUNCTION means a feature or
function that allows a person to use an electronic wireless communications
device without the use of either hand, except to activate, deactivate, or
initiate the feature or function with a single touch or single swipe.
      (3)   UTILITY means an entity specified in division (A), (C), (D), (E),
or (G) of R.C. § 4905.03.
      (4)   UTILITY SERVICE VEHICLE means a vehicle owned or operated by a
utility.
(Ord. 2013-36, passed 4-17-13; Am. Ord. 2023-34, passed 5-3-23)
Statutory reference:
   Texting while driving prohibited, see R.C. § 4511.204
   No preemption for local regulations imposing greater penalties, see R.C. §
4511.204(E)
§ 72.091 USE OF DEVICES BY PERSONS UNDER 18 YEARS OF AGE.
   (A)   No holder of a temporary instruction permit who has not attained the
age of 18 years and no holder of a probationary driver's license shall drive a
motor vehicle on any street, highway, or property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular traffic or parking while using in any manner an
electronic wireless communications device.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to either of the
following:
      (1)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device for
emergency purposes, including an emergency contact with a law enforcement
agency, hospital or health care provider, fire department, or other similar
emergency agency or entity;
      (2)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device whose
motor vehicle is in a stationary position and the motor vehicle is outside a
lane of travel;
      (3)   A person using a navigation device in a voice-operated or hands-
free manner who does not manipulate the device while driving.
   (C)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates division (A) of this section shall be fined $150. In addition, the
court shall impose a Class Seven suspension of the offender's driver's license
or permit for a definite period of 60 days.
      (2)   If the person previously has been adjudicated a delinquent child or
a juvenile traffic offender for a violation of this section, whoever violates
this section shall be fined $300. In addition, the court shall impose a Class
Seven suspension of the person's driver's license or permit for a definite
period of one year.
   (D)   The filing of a sworn complaint against a person for a violation of
this section does not preclude the filing of a sworn complaint for a violation
of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance for the same conduct.
However, if a person is adjudicated a delinquent child or a juvenile traffic
offender for a violation of this section and is also adjudicated a delinquent
child or a juvenile traffic offender for a violation of a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance for the same conduct, the two offenses are
allied offenses of similar import under R.C. § 2941.25.
   (E)   As used in this section, ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE
includes any of the following:
      (1)   A wireless telephone;
      (2)   A personal digital assistant;
      (3)   A computer, including a laptop computer and a computer tablet;
      (4)   A text-messaging device;
      (5)   Any other substantially similar electronic wireless device that is
designed or used to communicate via voice, image, or written word.
(Ord. 2013-39, passed 4-17-13)
Statutory reference:
   Use of electronic wireless communication deices by minors or probationary
drivers while driving prohibited, see R.C. § 4511.205
§ 72.092 OPENING DOORS OF VEHICLES IN SCHOOL ZONES.
   (A)   No person shall open the door of a vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic in a school zone unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so
and can be done without interfering with the movement of other traffic, nor
shall any person leave a door open on the side of a vehicle available to moving
traffic for a period of time longer than necessary to load or unload
passengers.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(Ord. 2022-74, passed 11-16-22)
SCHOOL BUSES
§ 72.100 REGULATIONS CONCERNING SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle, upon meeting or overtaking from either
direction any school bus stopped for the purpose of receiving or discharging
any school child, person attending programs offered by community boards of
mental health and county boards of developmental disabilities, or child
attending a program offered by a head start agency, shall stop at least ten
feet from the front or rear of the school bus and shall not proceed until such
school bus resumes motion, or until signaled by the school bus driver to
proceed. It is no defense to a charge under this division that the school bus
involved failed to display or be equipped with an automatically extended stop
warning sign as required by division (B) of this section.
   (B)   Every school bus shall be equipped with amber and red visual signals
meeting the requirements of R.C. § 4511.771 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and an automatically extended stop warning sign of a type
approved by the Ohio Department of Education and Workforce, which shall be
actuated by the driver of the bus whenever but only whenever the bus is stopped
or stopping on the roadway for the purpose of receiving or discharging school
children, persons attending programs offered by community boards of mental
health and county boards of developmental disabilities, or children attending
programs offered by head start agencies. A school bus driver shall not actuate
the visual signals or the stop warning sign in designated school bus loading
areas where the bus is entirely off the roadway or at school buildings when
children or persons attending programs offered by community boards of mental
health and county boards of developmental disabilities are loading or unloading
at curbside or at buildings when children attending programs offered by head
start agencies are loading or unloading at curbside. The visual signals and
stop warning sign shall be synchronized or otherwise operated as required by
the Ohio Administrative Code.
   (C)   Where a highway has been divided into four or more traffic lanes, a
driver of a vehicle need not stop for a school bus approaching from the
opposite direction which has stopped for the purpose of receiving or
discharging any school child, persons attending programs offered by community
boards of mental health and county boards of developmental disabilities, or
children attending programs offered by head start agencies. The driver of any
vehicle overtaking the school bus shall comply with division (A) above.
   (D)   School buses operating on divided highways or on highways with four or
more traffic lanes shall receive and discharge all school children, persons
attending programs offered by community boards of mental health and county
boards of developmental disabilities, and children attending programs offered
by head start agencies on their residence side of the highway.
   (E)   No school bus driver shall start the driver’s bus until after any
child, person attending programs offered by community boards of mental health
and county boards of developmental disabilities, or child attending a program
offered by a head start agency who may have alighted therefrom has reached a
place of safety on the child’s or person’s residence side of the road.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section may be fined an
amount not to exceed $500. A person who is issued a citation for a violation of
division (A) of this section is not permitted to enter a written plea of guilty
and waive the person’s right to contest the citation in a trial but instead
must appear in person in the proper court to answer the charge.
      (2)   In addition to and independent of any other penalty provided by
law, the court or mayor may impose upon an offender who violates this section a
class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7). When a
license is suspended under this section, the court or mayor shall cause the
offender to deliver the license to the court, and the court or clerk of the
court immediately shall forward the license to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles,
together with notice of the court’s action.
   (G)   As used in this section:
      HEAD START AGENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3301.32.
      SCHOOL BUS. As used in relation to children who attend a program offered
by a head start agency, means a bus that is owned and operated by a head start
agency, is equipped with an automatically extended stop warning sign of a type
approved by the Ohio Department of Education and Workforce, is painted the
color and displays the markings described in R.C. § 4511.77, and is equipped
with amber and red visual signals meeting the requirements of R.C. § 4511.771,
irrespective of whether or not the bus has 15 or more children aboard at any
time. The term does not include a van owned and operated by a head start
agency, irrespective of its color, lights or markings.
(R.C. § 4511.75)
§ 72.101 VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS; REPORT; INVESTIGATION; CITATION; WARNING.
   (A)   As used in this section, LICENSE PLATE includes but is not limited to
any temporary motor vehicle license registration issued under R.C. § 4503.182
or substantially equivalent law of another jurisdiction.
   (B)   When the operator of a school bus believes that a motorist has
violated R.C. § 4511.75(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
the operator shall report the license plate number and general description of
the vehicle and of the operator of the vehicle to the law enforcement agency
exercising jurisdiction over the area where the alleged violation occurred. The
information contained in the report relating to the license plate number and to
the general description of the vehicle and the operator of the vehicle at the
time of the alleged violation may be supplied by any person with first-hand
knowledge of the information. Information of which the operator of the school
bus has first-hand knowledge also may be corroborated by any other person.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the report of the alleged violation of R.C. § 4511.75
(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the law enforcement
agency shall conduct an investigation to attempt to determine the identity of
the operator of the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation. If the
identity of the operator at the time of the alleged violation is established,
the reporting of the license plate number of the vehicle shall establish
probable cause for the law enforcement agency to issue a citation for the
violation of R.C. § 4511.75(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance. However, if the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time
of the alleged violation cannot be established, the law enforcement agency
shall issue a warning to the owner of the vehicle at the time of the alleged
violation, except in the case of a leased or rented vehicle when the warning
shall be issued to the lessee at the time of the alleged violation.
(R.C. § 4511.751)
§ 72.102 RESTRICTIONS ON THE OPERATION OF SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a vehicle used for pupil transportation within
this municipality in violation of the rules of the Ohio Department of Education
and Workforce or the Ohio Department of Public Safety. No person, being the
owner thereof, or having the supervisory responsibility therefor, shall permit
the operation of a vehicle used for pupil transportation within this
municipality in violation of the rules of the Ohio Department of Education and
Workforce or the Ohio Department of Public Safety.
   (B)   As used in this section, VEHICLE USED FOR PUPIL TRANSPORTATION means
any vehicle that is identified as such by the Ohio Department of Education and
Workforce by rule and that is subject to O.A.C. Chapter 3301-83.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.76, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, 4511.77, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.76(C), (H), (I))
§ 72.103 SCHOOL BUS INSPECTION.
   (A)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person being the owner thereof,
or having supervisory responsibility therefor, permit the operation of, a
school bus within this municipality, unless there is displayed thereon the
decals issued by the state highway patrol bearing the proper date of inspection
for the calendar year for which the inspection decals were issued.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.761, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.762, 4511.764, 4511.77, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (C)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a violation
of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may suspend for any period of time not exceeding
three years, or cancel the license of any person, partnership, association, or
corporation, issued under R.C. § 4511.763.
(R.C. § 4511.761)
§ 72.104 SCHOOL BUS NOT USED FOR SCHOOL PURPOSES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no person who is
the owner of a bus that previously was registered as a school bus that is used
or is to be used exclusively for purposes other than the transportation of
children shall operate the bus or permit it to be operated within this
municipality unless the bus has been painted a color different from that
prescribed for school buses by R.C. § 4511.77 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance and painted in such a way that the words “stop” and “school
bus” are obliterated.
   (B)   Any church bus that previously was registered as a school bus and is
registered under R.C. § 4503.07 may retain the paint color prescribed for
school buses by R.C. § 4511.77 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance if the bus complies with all of the following:
      (1)   The words “school bus” required by R.C. § 4511.77 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance are covered or obliterated and the
bus is marked on the front and rear with the words “church bus” painted in
black lettering not less than ten inches in height.
      (2)   The automatically extending stop warning sign required by R.C. §
4511.75 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance is removed and the
word “stop” required by R.C. § 4511.77 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance is covered or obliterated.
      (3)   The flashing red and amber lights required by R.C. § 4511.771 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance are covered or removed.
      (4)   The inspection decal required by R.C. § 4511.761 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance is covered or removed.
      (5)   The identification number assigned under R.C. § 4511.764 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance and marked in black lettering on
the front and rear of the bus is covered or obliterated.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.762, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.764, 4511.77, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (D)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a violation
of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may suspend for any period of time not exceeding
three years, or cancel the license of any person, partnership, association, or
corporation, issued under R.C. § 4511.763.
(R.C. § 4511.762)
§ 72.105 LICENSING BY DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY.
   (A)   No person, partnership, association, or corporation shall transport
pupils to or from school on a school bus or enter into a contract with a board
of education of any school district for the transportation of pupils on a
school bus without being licensed by the Department of Public Safety.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.763)
§ 72.106 REGISTRATION AND IDENTIFICATION OF SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person being the owner thereof
or having supervisory responsibility therefor, permit the operation of a school
bus within this municipality unless there is displayed thereon an identifying
number in accordance with R.C. § 4511.764.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of R.C. § 4511.63,
4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.77, or 4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that
is substantially equivalent to any of those sections, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.764)
§ 72.107 SCHOOL BUS MARKING.
   (A)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person being the owner thereof
or having supervisory responsibility therefor permit the operation of, a school
bus within this municipality unless it is painted national school bus yellow
and is marked on both front and rear with the words “school bus” in black
lettering not less than eight inches in height and on the rear of the bus with
the word “stop” in black lettering not less than ten inches in height.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.77, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (C)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a violation
of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may suspend, for any period of time not exceeding
three years, or cancel the license of any person, partnership, association, or
corporation issued under R.C. § 4511.763.
(R.C. § 4511.77)
§ 72.108 FLASHING LIGHT SIGNAL LAMPS.
   (A)   Every school bus shall, in addition to any other equipment and
distinctive markings required pursuant to R.C. §§ 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.764
and 4511.77, and any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, be equipped
with signal lamps mounted as high as practicable, which shall display to the
front two alternately flashing red lights and two alternately flashing amber
lights located at the same level and to the rear two alternately flashing red
lights and alternately flashing amber lights located at the same level, and
these lights shall be visible at 500 feet in normal sunlight. The alternately
flashing red lights shall be spaced as widely as practicable, and the
alternately flashing amber lights shall be located next to them.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.771)
§ 72.109 OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE FOR OPERATOR.
   (A)   On and after May 6, 1986, no person, school board, or governmental
entity shall purchase, lease, or rent a new school bus unless the school bus
has an occupant restraining device, as defined in R.C. § 4513.263, installed
for use in its operator’s seat.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.772)
CHAPTER 73: MOTOR VEHICLE CRIMES
Section
General Provisions
   
73.01   Driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs
   
73.011   Implied consent
   
73.012   Physical control of vehicle while under the influence
   
73.02   Driving commercial vehicle with impaired alertness or ability; use of
drugs
   
73.03   Immobilizing or disabling device violation
   
73.04   Operation restricted for mini-trucks and low-speed, under-speed, or
utility vehicles
Reckless Operation
   
73.15   Reckless operation of vehicles
   
73.16   Reckless operation off streets and highways; competitive operation
   
73.17   Operator to be in reasonable control
Speed Regulations
   
73.30   Speed limits
   
73.31   Slow speed or stopping
   
73.32   Emergency vehicles excepted from speed limitation
   
73.33   Street racing, stunt driving and street takeovers prohibited
   
73.34   Speed regulations on bridges
Resisting Officer
   
73.45   Prohibition against resisting officer
   
73.46   Presenting false name or information to officer
Stopping After Accident
   
73.60   Failure to stop after accident
   
73.61   Stopping after accident on other than public roads or highways
   
73.62   Accident involving damage to realty
   
73.63   Failure to report accident
Statutory reference:
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 73.01 DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL OR DRUGS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate any vehicle within this municipality,
if, at the time of the operation, any of the following apply:
         (a)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse,
or a combination of them.
         (b)   The person has a concentration of 0.08% or more but less than
0.17% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
         (c)   The person has a concentration of 0.096% or more but less than
0.204% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or
plasma.
         (d)   The person has a concentration of 0.08 grams or more but less
than 0.17 grams by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
         (e)   The person has a concentration of 0.11 grams or more but less
than 0.238 grams by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s
urine.
         (f)   The person has a concentration of 0.17% or more by weight per
unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
         (g)   The person has a concentration of 0.204% or more by weight per
unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or plasma.
         (h)   The person has a concentration of 0.17 grams or more by weight
of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
         (i)   The person has a concentration of 0.238 grams or more by weight
of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s urine.
         (j)   Except as provided in division (K) of this section, the person
has a concentration of any of the following controlled substances or
metabolites of a controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum
or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds any of the following:
            1.   The person has a concentration of amphetamine in the person’s
urine of at least 500 nanograms of amphetamine per milliliter of the person’s
urine or has a concentration of amphetamine in the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma of at least 100 nanograms of amphetamine per milliliter
of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            2.   The person has a concentration of cocaine in the person’s
urine of at least 150 nanograms of cocaine per milliliter of the person’s urine
or has a concentration of cocaine in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma of at least 50 nanograms of cocaine per milliliter of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma.
            3.   The person has a concentration of cocaine metabolite in the
person’s urine of at least 150 nanograms of cocaine metabolite per milliliter
of the person’s urine or has a concentration of cocaine metabolite in the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 50 nanograms of
cocaine metabolite per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma.
            4.   The person has a concentration of heroin in the person’s urine
of at least 2,000 nanograms of heroin per milliliter of the person’s urine or
has a concentration of heroin in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma of at least 50 nanograms of heroin per milliliter of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma.
            5.   The person has a concentration of heroin metabolite (6-
monoacetyl morphine) in the person’s urine of at least 10 nanograms of heroin
metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) per milliliter of the person’s urine or has
a concentration of heroin metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) in the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 10 nanograms of heroin
metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) per milliliter of the person’s whole blood
or blood serum or plasma.
            6.   The person has a concentration of L.S.D. in the person’s urine
of at least 25 nanograms of L.S.D. per milliliter of the person’s urine or a
concentration of L.S.D. in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of
at least 10 nanograms of L.S.D. per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma.
            7.   The person has a concentration of marihuana in the person’s
urine of at least 10 nanograms of marihuana per milliliter of the person’s
urine or has a concentration of marihuana in the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma of at least 2 nanograms of marihuana per milliliter of the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            8.   Either of the following applies:
               A.   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of
abuse, or a combination of them, and the person has a concentration of
marihuana metabolite in the person’s urine of at least 15 nanograms of
marihuana metabolite per milliliter of the person’s urine or has a
concentration of marihuana metabolite in the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma of at least 5 nanograms of marihuana metabolite per milliliter
of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
               B.   The person has a concentration of marihuana metabolite in
the person’s urine of at least 35 nanograms of marihuana metabolite per
milliliter of the person’s urine or has a concentration of marihuana metabolite
in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 50 nanograms
of marihuana metabolite per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma.
            9.   The person has a concentration of methamphetamine in the
person’s urine of at least 500 nanograms of methamphetamine per milliliter of
the person’s urine or has a concentration of methamphetamine in the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 100 nanograms of
methamphetamine per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma.
            10.   The person has a concentration of phencyclidine in the
person’s urine of at least 25 nanograms of phencyclidine per milliliter of the
person’s urine or has a concentration of phencyclidine in the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 10 nanograms of phencyclidine per
milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            11.   The State Board of Pharmacy has adopted a rule pursuant to
R.C. § 4729.041 that specifies the amount of salvia divinorum and the amount of
salvinorin A that constitute concentrations of salvia divinorum and salvinorin
A in a person’s urine, in a person’s whole blood, or in a person’s blood serum
or plasma at or above which the person is impaired for purposes of operating
any vehicle within this state, the rule is in effect, and the person has a
concentration of salvia divinorum or salvinorin A of at least that amount so
specified by rule in the person’s urine, in the person’s whole blood, or in the
person’s blood serum or plasma.
      (2)   No person who, within 20 years of the conduct described in division
(A)(2)(a) of this section, previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of this division or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(1) of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or any other
equivalent offense shall do both of the following:
         (a)   Operate any vehicle within this municipality while under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them;
         (b)   Subsequent to being arrested for operating the vehicle as
described in division (A)(2)(a) of this section, being asked by a law
enforcement officer to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and being advised by the
officer in accordance with R.C. § 4511.192 or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance of the consequences of the person’s refusal or submission
to the test or tests, refuse to submit to the test or tests.
   (B)   No person under 21 years of age shall operate any vehicle within this
municipality, if, at the time of the operation, any of the following apply:
      (1)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.02% but less than
0.08% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
      (2)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.03% but less than
0.096% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or
plasma.
      (3)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.02 grams but less than
0.08 grams by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
      (4)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.028 grams but less
than 0.11 grams by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s urine.
   (C)   In any proceeding arising out of one incident, a person may be charged
with a violation of division (A)(1)(a) or (A)(2) and a violation of division
(B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section, but the person may not be convicted
of more than one violation of these divisions.
   (D)   (1)   (a)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding
for a violation of division (A)(1)(a) of this section or for an equivalent
offense that is vehicle-related, the result of any test of any blood, oral
fluid, or urine withdrawn and analyzed at any health care provider, as defined
in R.C. § 2317.02, may be admitted with expert testimony to be considered with
any other relevant and competent evidence in determining the guilt or innocence
of the defendant.
         (b)   In any criminal prosecution for a violation of division (A) or
(B) of this section or for an equivalent offense that is vehicle-related, the
court may admit evidence on the presence and concentration of alcohol, drugs of
abuse, controlled substances, metabolites of a controlled substance, or a
combination of them in the defendant’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma,
breath, urine, oral fluid, or other bodily substance at the time of the alleged
violation as shown by chemical analysis of the substance withdrawn within three
hours of the time of the alleged violation. The three-hour time limit specified
in this division regarding the admission of evidence does not extend or affect
the two-hour time limit specified in R.C. § 4511.192(A) as the maximum period
of time during which a person may consent to a chemical test or tests as
described in that section. The court may admit evidence on the presence and
concentration of alcohol, drugs of abuse, or a combination of them as described
in this division when a person submits to a blood, breath, urine, oral fluid,
or other bodily substance test at the request of a law enforcement officer
under R.C. § 4511.191 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or a
blood or urine sample is obtained pursuant to a search warrant. Only a
physician, a registered nurse, an emergency medical technician-intermediate, an
emergency medical technician-paramedic, or a qualified technician, chemist, or
phlebotomist shall withdraw a blood sample for the purpose of determining the
alcohol, drug, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or
combination content of the whole blood, blood serum, or blood plasma. This
limitation does not apply to the taking of breath, oral fluid, or urine
specimens. A person authorized to withdraw blood under this division may refuse
to withdraw blood under this division, if in that person’s opinion, the
physical welfare of the person would be endangered by the withdrawing of blood.
The bodily substance withdrawn under this division (D)(1)(b) shall be analyzed
in accordance with methods approved by the Director of Health by an individual
possessing a valid permit issued by the Director pursuant to R.C. § 3701.143.
         (c)   As used in division (D)(1)(b) of this section, EMERGENCY MEDICAL
TECHNICIAN-INTERMEDIATE and EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-PARAMEDIC have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 4765.01.
      (2)   In a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (A) of this
section or for an equivalent offense that is vehicle-related, if there was at
the time the bodily substance was withdrawn a concentration of less than the
applicable concentration of alcohol specified in divisions (A)(1)(b), (A)(1)
(c), (A)(1)(d) and (A)(1)(e) of this section or less than the applicable
concentration of a listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a
controlled substance specified for a violation of division (A)(1)(j) of this
section, that fact may be considered with other competent evidence in
determining the guilt or innocence of the defendant. This division does not
limit or affect a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (B) of this
section.
      (3)   Upon the request of the person who was tested, the results of the
chemical test shall be made available to the person or the person’s attorney,
immediately upon the completion of the chemical test analysis. If the chemical
test was obtained pursuant to division (D)(1)(b) of this section, the person
tested may have a physician, a registered nurse, or a qualified technician,
chemist, or phlebotomist of the person’s own choosing administer a chemical
test or tests, at the person’s expense, in addition to any administered at the
request of a law enforcement officer. If the person was under arrest as
described in R.C. § 4511.191(A)(5), the arresting officer shall advise the
person at the time of the arrest that the person may have an independent
chemical test taken at the person’s own expense. If the person was under arrest
other than described in R.C. § 4511.191(A)(5), the form to be read to the
person to be tested, as required under §
73.011, shall state that the person may have an independent test performed at
the person’s expense. The failure or inability to obtain an additional chemical
test by a person shall not preclude the admission of evidence relating to the
chemical test or tests taken at the request of a law enforcement officer.
      (4)   (a)   As used in division (D)(4)(b) and (D)(4)(c) of this section,
NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION means the National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration established as an administration of the United
States Department of Transportation under 96 Stat. 2415 (1983), 49 U.S.C. §
105.
         (b)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of division (A) or (B) of this section, of a municipal ordinance
relating to operating a vehicle while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of
abuse, or alcohol and a drug of abuse, or of a municipal ordinance relating to
operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled
substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath, oral fluid, or urine, if a law enforcement officer has
administered a field sobriety test to the operator of the vehicle involved in
the violation and if it is shown by clear and convincing evidence that the
officer administered the test in substantial compliance with the testing
standards for any reliable, credible, and generally accepted field sobriety
tests that were in effect at the time the tests were administered, including
but not limited to any testing standards then in effect that were set by the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, all of the following apply:
            1.   The officer may testify concerning the results of the field
sobriety test so administered.
            2.   The prosecution may introduce the results of the field
sobriety test so administered as evidence in any proceedings in the criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding.
            3.   If testimony is presented or evidence is introduced under
division (D)(4)(b)1. or (D)(4)(b)2. of this section and if the testimony or
evidence is admissible under the Rules of Evidence, the court shall admit the
testimony or evidence and the trier of fact shall give it whatever weight the
trier of fact considers to be appropriate.
         (c)   Division (D)(4)(b) of this section does not limit or preclude a
court, in its determination of whether the arrest of a person was supported by
probable cause or its determination of any other matter in a criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding of a type described in that division,
from considering evidence or testimony that is not otherwise disallowed by
division (D)(4)(b) of this section.
   (E)   (1)   Subject to division (E)(3) of this section, in any criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a violation of division (A)(1)(b),
(A)(1)(c), (A)(1)(d), (A)(1)(e), (A)(1)(f), (A)(1)(g), (A)(1)(h), (A)(1)(i), or
(A)(1)(j) or (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), or (B)(4) of this section or for an
equivalent offense that is substantially equivalent to any of those divisions,
a laboratory report from any laboratory personnel issued a permit by the
Department of Health authorizing an analysis as described in this division that
contains an analysis of the whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, urine,
or other bodily substance tested and that contains all of the information
specified in this division shall be admitted as prima facie evidence of the
information and statements that the report contains. The laboratory report
shall contain all of the following:
         (a)   The signature, under oath, of any person who performed the
analysis;
         (b)   Any findings as to the identity and quantity of alcohol, a drug
of abuse, a controlled substance, a metabolite of a controlled substance, or a
combination of them that was found;
         (c)   A copy of a notarized statement by the laboratory director of a
designee of the director that contains the name of each certified analyst or
test performer involved with the report, the analyst’s or test performer’s
employment relationship with the laboratory that issued the report, and a
notation that performing an analysis of the type involved is part of the
analyst’s or test performer’s regular duties;
         (d)   An outline of the analyst’s or test performer’s education,
training, and experience in performing the type of analysis involved and a
certification that the laboratory satisfies appropriate quality control
standards in general and, in this particular analysis, under rules of the
Department of Health.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law regarding the admission
of evidence, a report of the type described in division (E)(1) of this section
is not admissible against the defendant to whom it pertains in any proceeding,
other than a preliminary hearing or a grand jury proceeding, unless the
prosecutor has served a copy of the report on the defendant’s attorney or, if
the defendant has no attorney, on the defendant.
      (3)   A report of the type described in division (E)(1) of this section
shall not be prima facie evidence of the contents, identity, or amount of any
substance if, within seven days after the defendant to whom the report pertains
or the defendant’s attorney receives a copy of the report, the defendant or the
defendant’s attorney demands the testimony of the person who signed the report.
The judge in the case may extend the seven-day time limit in the interest of
justice.
   (F)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, any physician,
registered nurse, emergency medical technician-intermediate, emergency medical
technician-paramedic, or qualified technician, chemist, or phlebotomist who
withdraws blood from a person pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.19,
4511.191 or 4511.192, and any hospital, first-aid station, or clinic at which
blood is withdrawn from a person pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.19,
4511.191 or 4511.192, is immune from criminal liability and civil liability
based upon a claim of assault and battery or any other claim that is not a
claim of malpractice, for any act performed in withdrawing blood from the
person. The immunity provided in this division also extends to an emergency
medical service organization that employs an emergency medical technician-
intermediate or emergency medical technician-paramedic who withdraws blood
under this section. The immunity provided in this division is not available to
a person who withdraws blood if the person engages in willful or wanton
misconduct.
      (2)   As used in division (F)(1), EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-
INTERMEDIATE and EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-PARAMEDIC have the same meanings
as in R.C. § 4765.01.
   (G)   (1)   Whoever violates any provisions of divisions (A)(1)(a) through
(A)(1)(i) or (A)(2) of this section is guilty of operating a vehicle under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them. Whoever
violates division (A)(1)(j) of this section is guilty of operating a vehicle
while under the influence of a listed controlled substance or a listed
metabolite of a controlled substance. The court shall sentence the offender for
either offense under R.C. Chapter 2929, except as otherwise authorized or
required by divisions (G)(1)(a) through (G)(1)(e) of this section:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(b), (G)(1)(c),
(G)(1)(d), or (G)(1)(e) of this section, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree, and the court shall sentence the offender to
all of the penalties and sanctions provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(a)(i)
through (G)(1)(a)(iv).
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of division (A) of this section
or one other equivalent offense is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
The court shall sentence the offender to all of the penalties and sanctions
provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(b)(i) through (G)(1)(b)(v).
         (c)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division (A) of this
section or other equivalent offenses is guilty of a misdemeanor. The court
shall sentence the offender to all of the penalties and sanctions provided in
R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(c)(i) through (G)(1)(c)(vi).
         (d)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of division (A) of
this section or other equivalent offenses or an offender who, within 20 years
of the offense, previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to five or
more violations of that nature, or an offender who previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to a specification of the type described in R.C.
§ 2941.1413, is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
         (e)   An offender who previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) that was a felony, regardless of
when the violation and the conviction or guilty plea occurred, is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   An offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (A) of this section and who subsequently seeks reinstatement of the
driver’s or occupational driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating
privilege suspended under this section or R.C. § 4511.19 as a result of the
conviction or guilty plea shall pay a reinstatement fee as provided in R.C. §
4511.191(F)(2).
      (3)   (a)   If an offender is sentenced to a jail term under R.C. §
4511.19(G)(1)(b)(i) or (G)(1)(b)(ii) or (G)(1)(c)(i) or (G)(1)(c)(ii) and if,
within 60 days of sentencing of the offender, the court issues a written
finding on the record that, due to the unavailability of space at the jail
where the offender is required to serve the term, the offender will not be able
to begin serving that term within the 60-day period following the date of
sentencing, the court may impose an alternative sentence as specified in R.C. §
4511.19(G)(3) that includes a term of house arrest with electronic monitoring,
with continuous alcohol monitoring, or with both electronic monitoring and
continuous alcohol monitoring.
         (b)   As an alternative to the mandatory jail terms as required by
R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1), the court may sentence the offender as provided in R.C. §
4511.19(G)(3).
      (4)   If an offender’s driver’s or occupational driver’s license or
permit or nonresident operating privilege is suspended under division (G) of
this section or R.C. § 4511.19(G) and if R.C. § 4510.13 permits the court to
grant limited driving privileges, the court may grant the limited driving
privileges in accordance with that section. If division (A)(7) of that section
requires the court impose as a condition of the privileges that the offender
must display on the vehicle that is driven subject to the privileges restricted
license plates that are issued under R.C. § 4503.231, except as provided in
division (B) of that section, the court shall impose that condition as one of
the conditions of the limited driving privileges granted to the offender,
except as provided in R.C. § 4503.231(B).
      (5)   Fines imposed under this section for a violation of division (A) of
this section shall be distributed as provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(5).
      (6)   If title to a motor vehicle that is subject to an order of criminal
forfeiture under division (G)(1)(c), (G)(1)(d), or (G)(1)(e) of this section is
assigned or transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, in
addition to or independent of any other penalty established by law, the court
may fine the offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of
the National Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds of any fine so
imposed shall be distributed in accordance with division (C)(2) of that
section.
      (7)   In all cases in which an offender is sentenced under division (G)
of this section, the offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, the court, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for
any economic loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and
proximate result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or
after committing the offense for which the offender is sentenced under division
(G) of this section.
      (8)   A court may order an offender to reimburse a law enforcement agency
for any costs incurred by the agency with respect to a chemical test or tests
administered to the offender if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (A) of this section.
         (b)   The test or tests were of the offender’s whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, oral fluid, or urine.
         (c)   The test or tests indicated that the offender had one of the
following at the time of the offense:
            1.   A prohibited concentration of a controlled substance or a
metabolite of a controlled substance in the offender’s whole blood, blood serum
or plasma, or urine;
            2.   A drug of abuse or a metabolite of a drug of abuse in the
offender’s oral fluid.
      (9)   A court may warn any person who is convicted of or who pleads
guilty to a violation of division (A) of this section or an equivalent offense
that a subsequent violation of this section or an equivalent offense that
results in the death of another or the unlawful termination of another’s
pregnancy may result in the person being guilty of aggravated vehicular
homicide under R.C. § 2903.06. The court may warn the person of the applicable
penalties for that violation under R.C. §§ 2903.06 and 2929.142.
      (10)   As used in division (G) of this section, ELECTRONIC MONITORING has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   (H)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of operating a
motor vehicle after underage alcohol consumption and shall be punished as
follows:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (H)(2) of this section,
the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. In addition to
any other sanction imposed for the offense, the court shall impose a class six
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6). The court may grant
limited driving privileges relative to the suspension under R.C. §§ 4510.021
and 4510.13. The court may grant unlimited driving privileges with an ignition
interlock device relative to the suspension and may reduce the period of
suspension as authorized under R.C. § 4510.022. If the court grants unlimited
driving privileges under R.C. § 4510.022, the court shall suspend any jail term
imposed under division (H)(1) of this section as required under that section.
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of division (A)
of this section or other equivalent offenses, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. In addition to any other sanction imposed for
the offense, the court shall impose a class four suspension of the offender's
driver's license, commercial driver's license, temporary instruction permit,
probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4). The court may grant limited driving
privileges relative to the suspension under R.C. §§ 4510.021 and 4510.13.
      (3)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender's operation of the vehicle before, during, or after
committing the violation of division (B) of this section.
      (4)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after
committing the violation of division (B) of this section.
   (I)   (1)   No court shall sentence an offender to an alcohol treatment
program under this section unless the treatment program complies with the
minimum standards for alcohol treatment programs adopted under R.C. Chapter
5119 by the Director of Mental Health and Addiction Services.
      (2)   An offender who stays in a drivers’ intervention program or in an
alcohol treatment program under an order issued under this section shall pay
the cost of the stay in the program. However, if the court determines that an
offender who stays in an alcohol treatment program under an order issued under
this section is unable to pay the cost of the stay in the program, the court
may order that the cost be paid from the court’s indigent drivers’ alcohol
treatment fund.
   (J)   If a person whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege is suspended under this section or R.C. §
4511.19 files an appeal regarding any aspect of the person’s trial or sentence,
the appeal itself does not stay the operation of the suspension.
   (K)   Division (A)(1)(j) of this section does not apply to a person who
operates a vehicle while the person has a concentration of a listed controlled
substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance in the person’s
whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds the amount
specified in that division, if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs.
      (2)   The person injected, ingested, or inhaled the controlled substance
in accordance with the health professional’s directions.
   (L)   The prohibited concentrations of a controlled substance or a
metabolite of a controlled substance listed in division (A)(1)(j) of this
section also apply in a prosecution of a violation of R.C. § 2923.16(D) in the
same manner as if the offender is being prosecuted for a prohibited
concentration of alcohol.
   (M)   All terms defined in R.C. § 4510.01 apply to this section. If the
meaning of a term defined in R.C. § 4510.01 conflicts with the meaning of the
same term as defined in R.C. § 4501.01 or 4511.01, the term as defined in R.C.
§ 4510.01 applies to this section.
(R.C. § 4511.19(A) - (M))
   (N)   As used in this section, §
73.011 and §
73.012:
      COMMUNITY RESIDENTIAL SANCTION, CONTINUOUS ALCOHOL MONITORING, JAIL,
MANDATORY PRISON TERM, MANDATORY TERM OF LOCAL INCARCERATION, PRISON TERM, and
SANCTION have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      DRUG OF ABUSE has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4506.01.
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE means any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A);
         (b)   A violation of a municipal OVI ordinance;
         (c)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.04 in a case in which the offender
was subject to the sanctions described in division (D) of that section;
         (d)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.06(A)(1) or R.C. § 2903.08 or a
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to either of those
divisions;
         (e)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.06(A)(2), (A)(3), or (A)(4), R.C. §
2903.08(A)(2), or former R.C. § 2903.07, or a municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to any of those divisions or that former section, in a
case in which a judge or jury as the trier of fact found that the offender was
under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them;
         (f)   A violation of R.C. § 1547.11(A);
         (g)   A violation of a municipal ordinance prohibiting a person from
operating or being in physical control of any vessel underway or from
manipulating any water skis, aquaplane, or similar device on the waters of this
state while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination
of them or prohibiting a person from operating or being in physical control of
any vessel underway or from manipulating any water skis, aquaplane, or similar
device on the waters of this state with a prohibited concentration of alcohol,
a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine;
         (h)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance, law of
another state, or law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or R.C. § 1547.11(A);
         (i)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to R.C. § 4511.19(A) or R.C. § 1547.11(A).
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE THAT IS VEHICLE-RELATED. Means an equivalent offense
that is any of the following:
         (a)   A violation described in division (a), (b), (c), (d), or (e) of
the definition for “equivalent offense” provided in this division (N);
         (b)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance, law of
another state, or law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to
R.C. § 4511.19(A);
         (c)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to R.C. § 4511.19(A).
      MANDATORY JAIL TERM means the mandatory term in jail of 3, 6, 10, 20, 30,
or 60 days that must be imposed under R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(a), (G)(1)(b), or
(G)(1)(c) upon an offender convicted of a violation of division (A) of that
section and in relation to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   Except as specifically authorized under R.C. § 4511.19, the term
must be served in a jail.
         (b)   Except as specifically authorized under R.C. § 4511.19, the term
cannot be suspended, reduced, or otherwise modified pursuant to R.C. §§ 2929.21
through 2929.28 or any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
      MUNICIPAL OVI ORDINANCE and MUNICIPAL OVI OFFENSE mean any municipal
ordinance prohibiting a person from operating a vehicle while under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them or prohibiting
a person from operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a
controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
(R.C. § 4511.181)
Cross-reference:
   Endangering children, see §
135.14
Statutory reference:
   Mandatory suspension periods; immobilizing or disabling device; restricted
license, see R.C. § 4510.13
   Trial judge to suspend driver’s license, see R.C. § 4510.05
§ 73.011 IMPLIED CONSENT.
   (A)   (1)   As used in this section:
         ALCOHOL MONITORING DEVICE. Means any device that provides for
continuous alcohol monitoring, any ignition interlock device, any immobilizing
or disabling device other than an ignition interlock device that is constantly
available to monitor the concentration of alcohol in a person’s system, or any
other device that provides for the automatic testing and periodic reporting of
alcohol consumption by a person and that a court orders a person to use as a
sanction imposed as a result of the person’s conviction of or plea of guilty to
an offense.
         COMMUNITY ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 5119.01.
         PHYSICAL CONTROL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.194.
      (2)   Any person who operates a vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for vehicular travel or parking within this
municipality or who is in physical control of a vehicle shall be deemed to have
given consent to a chemical test or tests of the person’s whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath, oral fluid, or urine to determine the alcohol, drug of
abuse, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or
combination content of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath,
oral fluid, or urine if arrested for a violation of § 73.01(A) or (B), § 73.03,
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or any other municipal OVI ordinance.
      (3)   The chemical test or tests under division (A)(2) of this section
shall be administered at the request of a law enforcement officer having
reasonable grounds to believe the person was operating or in physical control
of a vehicle in violation of a division, section, or ordinance identified in
division (A)(2) of this section. The law enforcement agency by which the
officer is employed shall designate which of the tests shall be administered.
      (4)   Any person who is dead or unconscious, or who otherwise is in a
condition rendering the person incapable of refusal, shall be deemed to have
consented as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, and the test or tests
may be administered, subject to R.C. §§ 313.12 through 313.16.
      (5)   (a)   If a law enforcement officer arrests a person for a violation
of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or a municipal OVI ordinance and if the person if
convicted would be required to be sentenced under R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(c), (d),
or (e), the law enforcement officer shall request the person to submit, and the
person shall submit, to a chemical test or tests of the person’s whole blood,
blood serum or plasma, breath, oral fluid, or urine for the purpose of
determining the alcohol, drug of abuse, controlled substance, metabolite of a
controlled substance, or combination content of the person’s whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath, oral fluid, or urine. A law enforcement officer who
makes a request pursuant to this division that a person submit to a chemical
test or tests is not required to advise the person of the consequences of
submitting to, or refusing to submit to, the test or tests and is not required
to give the person the form described in division (C) of this section, but the
officer shall advise the person at the time of the arrest that if the person
refuses to take a chemical test the officer may employ whatever reasonable
means are necessary to ensure that the person submits to a chemical test of the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma. The officer shall also advise
the person at the time of the arrest that the person may have an independent
chemical test taken at the person’s own expense. Divisions (A)(3) and (A)(4) of
this section apply to the administration of a chemical test or tests pursuant
to this division.
         (b)   If a person refuses to submit to a chemical test upon a request
made pursuant to division (A)(5)(a) of this section, the law enforcement
officer who made the request may employ whatever reasonable means are necessary
to ensure that the person submits to a chemical test of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma. A law enforcement officer who acts pursuant to
this division to ensure that a person submits to a chemical test of the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma is immune from criminal and civil
liability based upon a claim for assault and battery or any other claim for the
acts, unless the officer so acted with malicious purpose, in bad faith, or in a
wanton or reckless manner.
(R.C. § 4511.191(A))
   (B)   Except as provided in division (A)(5) of this section, the arresting
law enforcement officer shall give advice in accordance with this section to
any person under arrest for a violation of §
73.01(A) or (B), §
73.012, R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or any other municipal OVI ordinance. The officer shall
give that advice in a written form that contains the information described in
division (C) of this section and shall read the advice to the person. The form
shall contain a statement that the form was shown to the person under arrest
and read to the person by the arresting officer. One or more persons shall
witness the arresting officer’s reading of the form, and the witnesses shall
certify to this fact by signing the form. The person must submit to the
chemical test or tests, subsequent to the request of the arresting officer,
within two hours of the time of the alleged violation and, if the person does
not submit to the test or tests within that two-hour time limit, the failure to
submit automatically constitutes a refusal to submit to the test or tests.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (A)(5) of this section, if a person is
under arrest as described in division (B) of this section, before the person
may be requested to submit to a chemical test or tests to determine the
alcohol, drug of abuse, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled
substance, or combination content of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or
plasma, breath, oral fluid, or urine, the arresting officer shall read the
following form to the person:
You now are under arrest for (specifically state the offense under state law or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance for which the person was
arrested – operating a vehicle under the influence of alcohol, a drug, or a
combination of them; operating a vehicle while under the influence of a listed
controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance;
operating a vehicle after underage alcohol consumption; or having physical
control of a vehicle while under the influence).
If you refuse to take any chemical test required by law, your Ohio driving
privileges will be suspended immediately, and you will have to pay a fee to
have the privileges reinstated. If you have a prior conviction of OVI or
operating a vehicle while under the influence of a listed controlled substance
or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance under state or municipal law
within the preceding 20 years, you are now under arrest for state OVI, and, if
you refuse to take a chemical test, you will face increased penalties if you
subsequently are convicted of the state OVI.
(Read this part unless the person is under arrest for solely having physical
control of a vehicle while under the influence.) If you take any chemical test
required by law and are found to be at or over the prohibited amount of
alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in
your whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine as set by law, your
Ohio driving privileges will be suspended immediately, and you will have to pay
a fee to have the privileges reinstated.
If you take a chemical test, you may have an independent chemical test taken at
your own expense.
   (D)   If the arresting law enforcement officer does not ask a person under
arrest as described in division (B) of this section or division (A)(5) of this
section to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191 or this
section, the arresting officer shall seize the Ohio or out-of-state driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit of the person and immediately forward it
to the court in which the arrested person is to appear on the charge. If the
arrested person is not in possession of the person’s license or permit or it is
not in the person’s vehicle, the officer shall order the person to surrender it
to the law enforcement agency that employs the officer within 24 hours after
the arrest, and, upon the surrender, the agency immediately shall forward the
license or permit to the court in which the person is to appear on the charge.
Upon receipt of the license or permit, the court shall retain it pending the
arrested person’s initial appearance and any action taken under R.C. §
4511.196.
   (E)   (1)   If a law enforcement officer asks a person under arrest as
described in division (A)(5) of this section to submit to a chemical test or
tests under that division and the test results indicate a prohibited
concentration of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma,
breath, or urine at the time of the alleged offense, or if a law enforcement
officer asks a person under arrest as described in division (B) of this section
to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191 or this section, if
the officer advises the person in accordance with this section of the
consequences of the person’s refusal or submission, and if either the person
refuses to submit to the test or tests or, unless the arrest was for a
violation of §
73.012, R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the
person submits to the test or tests and the test results indicate a prohibited
concentration of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma,
breath, or urine at the time of the alleged offense, the arresting officer
shall do all of the following:
         (a)   On behalf of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, notify the person
that, independent of any penalties or sanctions imposed upon the person, the
person’s Ohio driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privilege is suspended immediately, that the suspension will last at
least until the person’s initial appearance on the charge, which will be held
within five days after the date of the person’s arrest or the issuance of a
citation to the person, and that the person may appeal the suspension at the
initial appearance or during the period of time ending 30 days after that
initial appearance;
         (b)   Seize the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit of
the person and immediately forward it to the Registrar. If the arrested person
is not in possession of the person’s license or permit or it is not in the
person’s vehicle, the officer shall order the person to surrender it to the law
enforcement agency that employs the officer within 24 hours after the person is
given notice of the suspension, and, upon the surrender, the officer’s
employing agency immediately shall forward the license or permit to the
Registrar;
         (c)   Verify the person’s current residence and, if it differs from
that on the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit, notify
the Registrar of the change;
         (d)   Send to the Registrar, within 48 hours after the arrest of the
person, a sworn report that includes all of the following statements:
            1.   That the officer had reasonable grounds to believe that, at
the time of the arrest, the arrested person was operating a vehicle in
violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B) or a municipal OVI ordinance or for being
in physical control of a stationary vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.194 or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
            2.   That the person was arrested and charged with a violation of
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or a municipal OVI ordinance;
            3.   Unless division (E)(1)(d)5. of this section applies, that the
officer asked the person to take the designated chemical test or tests, advised
the person in accordance with this section of the consequences of submitting
to, or refusing to take, the test or tests, and gave the person the form
described in division (C) of this section;
            4.   Unless division (E)(1)(d)5. of this section applies, that
either the person refused to submit to the chemical test or tests or, unless
the arrest was for a violation of R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, the person submitted to the chemical test or tests and the
test results indicate a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled
substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the person’s whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine at the time of the alleged
offense.
            5.   If the person was under arrest as described in division (A)(5)
of this section and the chemical test or tests were performed in accordance
with that division, that the person was under arrest as described in that
division, that the chemical test or tests were performed in accordance with
that division, and that test results indicated a prohibited concentration of
alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in
the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine at the time
of the alleged offense.
      (2)   Division (E)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
arrested for a violation of §
73.03, R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, who
is asked by a law enforcement officer to submit to a chemical test or tests
under this section, and who submits to the test or tests, regardless of the
amount of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled
substance that the test results indicate is present in the person’s whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, oral fluid, or urine.
   (F)   The arresting officer shall give the officer’s sworn report that is
completed under this section to the arrested person at the time of the arrest,
or the Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall send the report to the person by
regular first class mail as soon as possible after receipt of the report, but
not later than 14 days after receipt of it. An arresting officer may give an
unsworn report to the arrested person at the time of the arrest provided the
report is complete when given to the arrested person and subsequently is sworn
to by the arresting officer. As soon as possible, but not later than 48 hours
after the arrest of the person, the arresting officer shall send a copy of the
sworn report to the court in which the arrested person is to appear on the
charge for which the person was arrested.
   (G)   The sworn report of an arresting officer completed under this section
is prima facie proof of the information and statements that it contains. It
shall be admitted and considered as prima facie proof of the information and
statements that it contains in any appeal under R.C. § 4511.197 relative to any
suspension of a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege that results from the arrest covered by the
report.
(R.C. § 4511.192)
   (H)   (1)   A suspension of a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or permit or nonresident operating privilege under this section for the
time described in R.C. § 4511.191(B) or (C) is effective immediately from the
time at which the arresting officer serves the notice of suspension upon the
arrested person. Any subsequent finding that the person is not guilty of the
charge that resulted in the person’s being requested to take the chemical test
or tests under division (A) of this section does not affect the suspension.
      (2)   If a person arrested for operating a vehicle in violation of §
73.01(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), or any other municipal OVI
ordinance, or for being in physical control of a vehicle in violation of §
73.012 or R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
regardless of whether the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit or nonresident operating privilege is or is not suspended under R.C. §
4511.191(B) or (C) or R.C. Chapter 4510, the person’s initial appearance on the
charge resulting from the arrest shall be held within five days of the persons’
arrest or the issuance of the citation to him or her, subject to any
continuance granted by the court pursuant to R.C. § 4511.197 regarding the
issues specified in that section.
(R.C. § 4511.191(D))
Statutory reference:
   Disposition of fines, immobilization of vehicle and impoundment of license
plates, criminal forfeiture for municipal ordinance conviction, see R.C. §
4511.193
   Effect of refusal to submit to test, seizure of license, suspension periods,
appeal procedures, occupational driving privileges, and indigent drivers
alcohol treatment funds, see R.C. § 4511.191
   Judicial pretrial suspension, initial appearance, see R.C. § 4511.196
   Mandatory suspension periods; immobilizing or disabling device; restricted
license, see R.C. § 4510.13
   Seizure of vehicles upon arrest, see R.C. § 4511.195
§ 73.012 PHYSICAL CONTROL OF VEHICLE WHILE UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   (A)   As used in this section, PHYSICAL CONTROL means being in the driver’s
position of the front seat of a vehicle and having possession of the vehicle’s
ignition key or other ignition device.
   (B)   No person shall be in physical control of a vehicle if, at the time of
the physical control, any of the following apply:
      (1)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a
combination of them.
      (2)   The person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine
contains at least the concentration of alcohol specified in §
73.01(A)(1)(b), (A)(1)(c), (A)(1)(d), or (A)(1)(e).
      (3)   Except as provided in division (E) of this section, the person has
a concentration of a listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or
urine that equals or exceeds the concentration specified in §
73.01(A)(1)(j).
   (C)   (1)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of this section, if a law enforcement officer has administered a
field sobriety test to the person in physical control of the vehicle involved
in the violation and if it is shown by clear and convincing evidence that the
officer administered the test in substantial compliance with the testing
standards for any reliable, credible, and generally acceptable field sobriety
tests that were in effect at the time the tests were administered, including
but not limited to any testing standards then in effect what were set by the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, all of the following apply:
         (a)   The officer may testify concerning the results of the field
sobriety test so administered.
         (b)   The prosecution may introduce the results of the field sobriety
test so administered as evidence in any proceedings in the criminal prosecution
or juvenile court proceeding.
         (c)   If testimony is presented or evidence is introduced under
division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this section and if the testimony or
evidence is admissible under the Rules of Evidence, the court shall admit the
testimony or evidence, and the trier of fact shall give it whatever weight the
trier of fact considers to be appropriate.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not limit or preclude a court,
in its determination of whether the arrest of a person was supported by
probable cause or its determination of any other matter in a criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding of a type described in that division,
from considering evidence or testimony that is not otherwise disallowed by
division (C)(1) of this section.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of having physical control of
a vehicle while under the influence, a misdemeanor of the first degree. In
addition to other sanctions imposed, the court may impose on the offender a
class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
   (E)   Division (B)(3) of this section does not apply to a person who is in
physical control of a vehicle while the person has a concentration of a listed
controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance in the
person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds
the amount specified in §
73.01(A)(1)(j) if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs.
      (2)   The person injected, ingested, or inhaled the controlled substance
in accordance with the health professional’s directions.
(R.C. § 4511.194)
§ 73.02 DRIVING COMMERCIAL VEHICLE WITH IMPAIRED ALERTNESS OR ABILITY; USE OF
DRUGS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle, as defined in R.C. §
4506.01, or a commercial car or commercial tractor, as defined in R.C. §
4501.01, while the person’s ability or alertness is so impaired by fatigue,
illness, or other causes that it is unsafe for the person to drive such
vehicle. No driver shall use any drug which would adversely affect the driver’s
ability or alertness.
   (B)   No owner, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01, of a commercial motor vehicle,
commercial car or commercial tractor, or a person employing or otherwise
directing the driver of such vehicle, shall require or knowingly permit a
driver in any such condition described in division (A) of this section to drive
such vehicle upon any street or highway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.79, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, or
4511.77 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.79)
§ 73.03 IMMOBILIZING OR DISABLING DEVICE VIOLATION.
   (A)   (1)   No offender who has been granted limited or unlimited driving
privileges, during any period that the offender is required to operate only a
motor vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device, shall request
or permit any other person to breathe into the device if it is an ignition
interlock device or another type of device that monitors the concentration of
alcohol in a person’s breath or to otherwise start the motor vehicle equipped
with the device, for the purpose of providing the offender with an operable
motor vehicle.
      (2)   No person shall breathe into an immobilizing or disabling device
that is an ignition interlock device or another type of device that monitors
the concentration of alcohol in a person’s breath or otherwise start a motor
vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device, for the purpose of
providing an operable motor vehicle to another person who has been granted
limited or unlimited driving privileges under the condition that the person
operate only a motor vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device.
      (3)   No unauthorized person shall tamper with or circumvent the
operation of an immobilizing or disabling device.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of an immobilizing or
disabling device violation, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4510.44)
§ 73.04 OPERATION RESTRICTED FOR MINI-TRUCKS AND LOW-SPEED, UNDER-SPEED, OR
UTILITY VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a low-speed vehicle upon any street or
highway having an established speed limit greater than 35 miles per hour.
      (2)   No person shall operate an under-speed or utility vehicle or a
mini-truck upon any street or highway except as follows:
         (a)   Upon a street or highway having an established speed limit not
greater than 35 miles per hour and only upon such streets or highways where the
municipality has granted permission for such operation in accordance with
division (E) of this section;
         (b)   A state park or political subdivision employee or volunteer
operating a utility vehicle exclusively within the boundaries of state parks or
political subdivision parks for the operation or maintenance of state or
political subdivision park facilities.
      (3)   No person shall operate a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter upon
any street or highway having an established speed limit greater than 45 miles
per hour.
   (B)   This section does not prohibit either of the following:
      (1)   A person operating a low-speed, under-speed, or utility vehicle or
a mini-truck from proceeding across an intersection of a street or highway
having a speed limit greater than 35 miles per hour;
      (2)   A person operating a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter from
proceeding across an intersection of a street or highway having a speed limit
greater than 45 miles per hour.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the municipality from adopting
more stringent local ordinances, resolutions, or regulations governing the
operation of a low-speed vehicle or a mini-truck, or a motor-driven cycle or
motor scooter.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.214)
   (E)   By ordinance or resolution, the municipality may authorize the
operation of under-speed or utility vehicles or mini-trucks on a public street
or highway under its jurisdiction. The municipality shall do all of the
following:
      (1)   Limit the operation of those vehicles to streets and highways
having an established speed limit not greater than 35 miles per hour;
      (2)   Require the vehicle owner who wishes to operate an under-speed or
utility vehicle or a mini-truck on the public streets or highways to submit the
vehicle to an inspection conducted by a local law enforcement agency that
complies with inspection requirements established by the Department of Public
Safety under R.C. § 4513.02;
      (3)   Permit the operation on public streets or highways of only those
vehicles that successfully pass the required vehicle inspection, are registered
in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4503, and are titled in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 4505;
      (4)   Notify the Director of Public Safety, in a manner the Director
determines, of the authorization for the operation of under-speed or utility
vehicles or mini-trucks.
   (F)   The municipality may establish additional requirements for the
operation of under-speed or utility vehicles or mini-trucks on its streets and
highways.
(R.C. § 4511.215)
   (G)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (F) of this section, a person
may operate a utility vehicle on any public roads or right-of-way, other than a
freeway, when traveling from one farm field to another for agricultural
purposes if the vehicle is displaying a triangular slow-moving vehicle emblem
as described in R.C. § 4513.11.
(R.C. § 4511.216)
   (H)   (1)   Except as provided in this division (H) and divisions (E) and
(F) of this section, no person shall operate a mini-truck within this
municipality.
      (2)   A person may operate a mini-truck on a farm for agricultural
purposes only when the owner of the farm qualifies for the current agricultural
use valuation tax credit. A mini-truck may be operated by or on behalf of such
a farm owner on public roads and rights-of-way only when traveling from one
farm field to another.
      (3)   A person may operate a mini-truck on property owned or leased by a
dealer who sells mini- trucks at retail.
      (4)   Whoever violates this division (H) shall be penalized as provided
in division (D) of this section.
(R.C. § 4519.401)
RECKLESS OPERATION
§ 73.15 RECKLESS OPERATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any street or highway in willful
or wanton disregard of the safety of persons or property.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.20)
Cross-reference:
   License suspension, see §
71.25
§ 73.16 RECKLESS OPERATION OFF STREETS AND HIGHWAYS; COMPETITIVE OPERATION.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any public or private
property other than streets or highways in willful or wanton disregard of the
safety of persons or property.
      (2)   This section does not apply to the competitive operation of
vehicles on public or private property when the owner of such property
knowingly permits such operation thereon.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.201)
Cross-reference:
   License suspension, see §
71.25
§ 73.17 OPERATOR TO BE IN REASONABLE CONTROL.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, agricultural tractor, or
agricultural tractor that is towing, pulling, or otherwise drawing a unit of
farm machinery on any street, highway, or property open to the public for
vehicular traffic without being in reasonable control of the vehicle,
agricultural tractor, or unit of farm machinery.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operating a motor vehicle
or agricultural tractor without being in control of it, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.202)
SPEED REGULATIONS
§ 73.30 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle at a speed greater or less
than is reasonable or proper, having due regard for the traffic, surface, and
width of the street or highway and any other conditions, and no person shall
drive any motor vehicle in and upon any street or highway at a greater speed
than will permit him or her to bring it to a stop within the assured clear
distance ahead.
   (B)   It is prima facie lawful, in the absence of a lower limit declared or
established pursuant to this section by the Director of Transportation or local
authorities, for the operator of a motor vehicle to operate the same at a speed
not exceeding the following:
      (1)   (a)   Twenty miles per hour in school zones during school recess
and while children are going to or leaving school during the opening or closing
hours, and when 20 miles per hour school speed limit signs are erected, except
that on controlled-access highways and expressways, if the right-of-way line
fence has been erected without pedestrian opening, the speed shall be governed
by division (B)(4) of this section, and on freeways, if the right-of-way line
fence has been erected without pedestrian opening, the speed shall be governed
by divisions (B)(10) and (B)(11) of this section. The end of every school zone
may be marked by a sign indicating the end of the zone. Nothing in this section
or in the Manual and Specifications for a Uniform System of Traffic-Control
Devices shall be construed to require school zones to be indicated by signs
equipped with flashing or other lights, or giving other special notice of the
hours in which the school zone speed limit is in effect.
         (b)   As used in this section, SCHOOL means all of the following:
            1.   Any school chartered under R.C. § 3301.16;
            2.   Any nonchartered school that during the preceding year filed
with the Ohio Department of Education and Workforce in compliance with O.A.C. §
3301-35-08, a copy of the school’s report for the parents of the school’s
pupils certifying that the school meets state minimum standards for
nonchartered, nontax-supported schools and presents evidence of this filing to
the jurisdiction from which it is requesting the establishment of a school
zone;
            3.   Any special elementary school that in writing requests the
County Engineer to create a school zone at the location of the school. Upon
receipt of such written request, the County Engineer shall create a school zone
at that location by erecting appropriate signs;
            4.   Any preschool education program operated by an educational
service center that is located on a street or highway with a speed limit of 45
miles per hour or more, when the educational service center in writing requests
that the County Engineer create a school zone at the location of that program.
Upon receipt of such a written request, the County Engineer shall create a
school zone at that location by erecting the appropriate signs.
         (c)   As used in this section, SCHOOL ZONE means that portion of a
street or highway passing a school fronting upon the street or highway that is
encompassed by projecting the school property lines to the fronting street or
highway, and also includes that portion of a state highway. Upon request from
local authorities for streets and highways under their jurisdiction and that
portion of a state highway under the jurisdiction of the Director of
Transportation or a request from a County Engineer in the case of a school zone
for a special elementary school, the Director may extend the traditional school
zone boundaries. The distances in divisions (B)(1)(c)1. through (B)(1)(c)3.
below shall not exceed 300 feet per approach per direction, and are bounded by
whichever of the following distances or combination thereof the Director
approves as most appropriate:
            1.   The distance encompassed by projecting the school building
lines normal to the fronting highway and extending a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction;
            2.   The distance encompassed by projecting the school property
lines intersecting the fronting highway and extending a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction;
            3.   The distance encompassed by the special marking of the
pavement for a principal school pupil crosswalk plus a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction of the highway.
         (d)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to invalidate the
Director’s initial action on August 9, 1976, establishing all school zones at
the traditional school zone boundaries defined by projecting school property
lines, except when those boundaries are extended as provided in divisions (B)
(1)(a) and (B)(1)(c) of this section.
         (e)   As used in this division, CROSSWALK has the meaning given that
term in R.C. § 4511.01(LL)(2).
         (f)   The Director may, upon request by resolution of the Legislative
Authority and upon submission by the municipality of such engineering, traffic,
and other information as the Director considers necessary, designate a school
zone on any portion of a state route lying within the municipality that
includes a crosswalk customarily used by children going to or leaving a school
during recess and opening and closing hours, whenever the distance, as measured
in a straight line, from the school property line nearest the crosswalk to the
nearest point of a crosswalk is no more than 1,320 feet. Such a school zone
shall include the distance encompassed by the crosswalk and extending 300 feet
in each appropriate direction of the state route.
         (g)   As used in this section,  SPECIAL ELEMENTARY SCHOOL means a
school that meets all of the following:
            1.   It is not chartered and does not receive tax revenue from any
source.
            2.   It does not educate children beyond the eighth grade.
            3.   It is located outside the limits of a municipal corporation.
            4.   A majority of the total number of students enrolled at the
school are not related by blood.
            5.   The principal or other person in charge of the special
elementary school annually sends a report to the superintendent of the school
district in which the special elementary school is located indicating the total
number of students enrolled at the school, but otherwise the principal or other
person in charge does not report any other information or data to the
superintendent.
      (2)   Twenty-five miles per hour in all other portions of the
municipality, except on state routes outside business districts, through
highways outside business districts, and alleys;
      (3)   Thirty-five miles per hour on all state routes or through highways
within the municipality outside business districts, except as provided in
divisions (B)(4) and (B)(6) of this section;
      (4)   Fifty miles per hour on controlled-access highways and expressways
within the municipality, except as provided in divisions (B)(12), (B)(13), (B)
(14), (B)(15), and (B)(16) of this section;
      (5)   Fifty-five miles per hour on highways outside the municipality,
other than highways within island jurisdictions as provided in division (B)(8)
of this section, highways as provided in divisions (B)(9) and (B)(10) of this
section, and highways, expressways and freeways as provided in divisions (B)
(12), (B)(13), (B)(14), and (B)(16) of this section;
      (6)   Fifty miles per hour on state routes within the municipality
outside urban districts unless a lower prima facie speed is established as
further provided in this section;
      (7)   Fifteen miles per hour on all alleys within the municipality;
      (8)   Thirty-five miles per hour on highways outside the municipality
that are within an island jurisdiction;
      (9)   Thirty-five miles per hour on through highways, except state
routes, that are outside municipal corporations and that are within a national
park with boundaries extending through two or more counties;
      (10)   Sixty miles per hour on two-lane state routes outside municipal
corporations as established by the Director under R.C. § 4511.21(H)(2);
      (11)   Fifty-five miles per hour on freeways with paved shoulders inside
the municipality, other than freeways as provided in divisions (B)(14) and (B)
(16) of this section;
      (12)   Sixty miles per hour on rural expressways with traffic control
signals and on all portions of rural divided highways, except as provided in
divisions (B)(13) and (B)(14) of this section;
      (13)   Sixty-five miles per hour on all rural expressways without traffic
control signals;
      (14)   Seventy miles per hour on all rural freeways;
      (15)   Fifty-five miles per hour on all portions of freeways or
expressways in congested areas as determined by the Director and that are
located within a municipal corporation or within an interstate freeway
outerbelt, except as provided in division (B)(16) of this section;
      (16)   Sixty-five miles per hour on all portions of freeways or
expressways without traffic control signals in urbanized areas.
   (C)   It is prima facie unlawful for any person to exceed any of the speed
limitations in divisions (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)
(8) and (B)(9) of this section or any declared or established pursuant to this
section by the Director or local authorities and it is unlawful for any person
to exceed any of the speed limitations in division (D) of this section. No
person shall be convicted of more than one violation of this section for the
same conduct, although violations of more than one provision of this section
may be charged in the alternative in a single affidavit.
   (D)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon a street or highway as
follows:
      (1)   At a speed exceeding 55 miles per hour, except upon a two-lane
state route as provided in division (B)(10) of this section and upon a highway,
expressway or freeway as provided in divisions (B)(13), (B)(14), (B)(15) and
(B)(17) of this section;
      (2)   At a speed exceeding 60 miles per hour upon a two-lane state route
as provided in division (B)(10) of this section and upon a highway as provided
in division (B)(13) of this section;
      (3)   At a speed exceeding 65 miles per hour upon an expressway as
provided in division (B)(14) of this section or upon a freeway as provided in
division (B)(17) of this section, except upon a freeway as provided in division
(B)(15) of this section;
      (4)   At a speed exceeding 70 miles per hour upon a freeway as provided
in division (B)(15) of this section;
      (5)   At a speed exceeding the posted speed limit upon a highway,
expressway or freeway for which the Director has determined and declared a
speed limit pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(I)(2) or (L)(2).
   (E)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(E), in every charge of violating this
section, the affidavit and warrant shall specify the time, place and speed at
which the defendant is alleged to have driven, and in charges made in reliance
upon division (C) of this section also the speed which division (B)(1)(a), (B)
(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of, or a limit declared
or established pursuant to, this section or R.C. § 4511.21 declares is prima
facie lawful at the time and place of such alleged violation, except that in
affidavits where a person is alleged to have driven at a greater speed than
will permit the person to bring the vehicle to stop within the assured clear
distance ahead, the affidavit and warrant need not specify the speed at which
the defendant is alleged to have driven.
   (F)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(F), when a speed in excess of both a prima-
facie limitation and a limitation in division (D) of this section is alleged,
the defendant shall be charged in a single affidavit, alleging a single act,
with a violation indicated of both division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4),
(B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of this section, or of a limit declared or
established pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.21 by the Director or local
authorities, and of the limitation in division (D) of this section. If the
court finds a violation of division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4),(B)(6),
(B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of, or a limit declared or established pursuant to,
this section or R.C. § 4511.21 has occurred, it shall enter a judgment of
conviction under such division and dismiss the charge under division (D) of
this section. If it finds no violation of division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3),
(B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of, or a limit declared or established
pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.21, it shall then consider whether the
evidence supports a conviction under division (D) of this section.
   (G)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(G), points shall be assessed for a
violation of a limitation under division (D) of this section in accordance with
R.C. § 4510.036.
(R.C. § 4511.21(A) - (G))
   (H)   Whenever, in accordance with R.C. § 4511.21(H) through (N), the
maximum prima facie speed limitations as established herein have been altered,
either higher or lower, and the appropriate signs giving notice have been
erected as required, operators of motor vehicles shall be governed by the speed
limitations set forth on such signs. It is prima facie unlawful for any person
to exceed the speed limits posted upon such signs.
   (I)   As used in this section:
      COMMERCIAL BUS means a motor vehicle designed for carrying more than nine
passengers and used for the transportation of persons for compensation.
      DIVIDED. Means a roadway having two or more travel lanes for vehicles
moving in opposite directions and that is separated by a median of more than
four feet, excluding turn lanes.
      INTERSTATE SYSTEM has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. § 101.
      NONCOMMERCIAL BUS includes but is not limited to a school bus, or a motor
vehicle operated solely for the transportation of persons associated with a
charitable or nonprofit organization.
      OUTERBELT. A portion of a freeway that is part of the interstate system
and is located in the outer vicinity of a major municipal corporation or group
of municipal corporations, as designated by the Director.
      RURAL. Means an area outside urbanized areas and outside of a business or
urban district, and areas that extend within urbanized areas where the roadway
characteristics remain mostly unchanged from those outside the urbanized areas.
      URBANIZED AREA. Has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. § 101.
(R.C. § 4511.21(O))
   (J)   Speed limits for private roads and driveways.
      (1)   The owner of a private road or driveway located in a private
residential area containing 20 or more dwelling units may establish a speed
limit on the road or driveway by complying with all of the following
requirements:
         (a)   The speed limit is not less than 25 miles per hour and is
indicated by a sign that is in a proper position, is sufficiently legible to be
seen by an ordinarily observant person, and meets the specifications for the
basic speed limit sign included in the manual adopted by the Department of
Transportation pursuant to R.C. § 4511.09;
         (b)   The owner has posted a sign at the entrance of the private road
or driveway that is in plain view and clearly informs persons entering the road
or driveway that they are entering private property, a speed limit has been
established for the road or driveway, and the speed limit is enforceable by law
enforcement officers under state law.
      (2)   No person shall operate a vehicle upon a private road or driveway
as provided in division (J)(1) of this section at a speed exceeding any speed
limit established and posted pursuant to division (J)(1).
      (3)   When a speed limit is established and posted in accordance with
division (J)(1) of this section, a law enforcement officer may apprehend a
person violating the speed limit of the residential area by utilizing any of
the means described in R.C. § 4511.091 or by any other accepted method of
determining the speed of a motor vehicle and may stop and charge the person
with exceeding the speed limit.
      (4)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.211(D), points shall be assessed for
violation of a speed limit established and posted in accordance with division
(J)(1) of this section in accordance with R.C. § 4510.036.
      (5)   As used in this division (J):
         OWNER. Includes but is not limited to a person who holds title to the
real property in fee simple, a condominium owners’ association, a property
owners’ association, a board of directors or trustees of a private community,
and a nonprofit corporation governing a private community.
         PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL AREA CONTAINING 20 OR MORE DWELLING UNITS. Does
not include a Chautauqua assembly as defined in R.C. § 4511.90.
(R.C. § 4511.211(A) - (E))
   (K)   Penalties.
      (1)   Divisions (A) through (I).
         (a)   A violation of any provision of divisions (A) through (I) of
this section is one of the following:
            1.   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (K)(1)(a)2., (K)(1)
(a)3., (K)(1)(b), and (K)(1)(c) of this section, a minor misdemeanor;
            2.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of any provision of
divisions (A) through (I) of this section, R.C. § 4511.21, or any provision of
any other municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any provision
of that section, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
            3.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of any
provision of divisions (A) through (I) of this section, R.C. § 4511.21, or any
provision of any other municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to
any provision of that section, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
         (b)   If the offender operated a motor vehicle faster than 35 miles an
hour in a business district of the municipality, faster than 50 miles an hour
in other portions of the municipality, or faster than 35 miles an hour in a
school zone during recess or while children are going to or leaving school
during the school's opening or closing hours, a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. This division does not apply if penalties may be imposed under division
(K)(1)(a)2. or (K)(1)(a)3. of this section.
         (c)   Notwithstanding division (K)(1)(a) of this section, if the
offender operated a motor vehicle in a construction zone where a sign was then
posted in accordance with R.C. § 4511.98, the court, in addition to all other
penalties provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a fine of two times
the usual amount imposed for the violation. No court shall impose a fine of two
times the usual amount imposed for the violation upon an offender if the
offender alleges, in an affidavit filed with the court prior to the offender’s
sentencing, that the offender is indigent and is unable to pay the fine imposed
pursuant to this division and if the court determines that the offender is an
indigent person and unable to pay the fine.
         (d)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.21(P))
      (2)   Division (J). A violation of division (J)(2) of this section is one
of the following:
         (a)   A violation of division (J)(2) of this section is one of the
following:
            1.   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (K)(2)(a)2. and (K)
(2)(a)3. of this section, a minor misdemeanor;
            2.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division (J)(2) of
this section, R.C. § 4511.211(B), or any other municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to that division, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
            3.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of division
(J)(2) of this section, R.C. § 4511.211(B), or any other municipal ordinance
that is substantially equivalent to that division, a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
         (b)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.211(F))
      (3)   Notwithstanding division (K)(1) of this section, if the offender
operated a motor vehicle in a construction zone where a sign was then posted in
accordance with R.C. § 4511.98, the court, in addition to all other penalties
provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a fine of two times the usual
amount imposed for the violation. No court shall impose a fine of two times the
usual amount imposed for the violation upon an offender if the offender
alleges, in an affidavit filed with the court prior to the offender's
sentencing, that the offender is indigent and is unable to pay the fine imposed
pursuant to this division and if the court determines that the offender is an
indigent person and unable to pay the fine.
(Ord. 2012-68, passed 10-3-12)
Statutory reference:
   Alteration of speed limits with approval of Director, see R.C. § 4511.21(H)
through (N)
   Arrest pending warrant when radar, electrical or mechanical timing device
used to determine violation, see R.C. § 4511.091
§ 73.31 SLOW SPEED OR STOPPING.
   (A)   No person shall stop or operate a vehicle at such an unreasonably slow
speed as to impede or block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic,
except when stopping or reduced speed is necessary for safe operation or to
comply with law.
   (B)   Whenever the Director of Transportation or local authorities determine
on the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation that slow speeds on
any part of a controlled-access highway, expressway, or freeway consistently
impede the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, the Director or such
local authority may declare a minimum speed limit below which no person shall
operate a motor vehicle, except when necessary for safe operation or in
compliance with the law. No minimum speed limit established hereunder shall be
less than 30 miles per hour, greater than 50 miles per hour, nor effective
until the provisions of R.C. § 4511.21 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, relating to appropriate signs, have been fulfilled and local
authorities have obtained the approval of the Director.
   (C)   In a case involving a violation of this section, the trier of fact, in
determining whether the vehicle was being operated at an unreasonably slow
speed, shall consider the capabilities of the vehicle and its operator.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.22)
§ 73.32 EMERGENCY VEHICLES EXCEPTED FROM SPEED LIMITATION.
   The prima facie speed limitations set forth in R.C. § 4511.21 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance do not apply to emergency vehicles
or public safety vehicles when they are responding to emergency calls and are
equipped with and displaying at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating
light visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet
to the front of the vehicle, and when the drivers thereof sound audible signals
by bell, siren, or exhaust whistle. This section does not relieve the driver of
an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons using the street or highway.
(R.C. § 4511.24)
§ 73.33 STREET RACING, STUNT DRIVING AND STREET TAKEOVERS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      BURNOUT. A maneuver performed while operating a vehicle whereby the
vehicle is kept in a stationary position, but the wheels of the vehicle are
spun, which may cause the tires of the vehicle to become heated and emit smoke
from the friction.
      DOUGHNUT. A maneuver performed while operating a vehicle whereby the
front or rear of the vehicle is rotated around the opposite set of wheels in a
continuous motion, which may cause a circular skid-mark pattern of rubber on
the driving surface, or the tires of the vehicle to become heated and emit
smoke from the friction, or both.
      DRIFTING. A maneuver performed while operating a vehicle whereby the
vehicle is driven in a manner that causes a controlled, sideways skid during a
turn, with the front wheels pointing in a direction that is the opposite of the
direction of the turn.
      STREET RACING. The operation of two or more vehicles from a point side by
side at accelerating speeds in a competitive attempt to out-distance each other
or the operation of one or more vehicles over a common selected course, from
the same point to the same point, wherein timing is made of the participating
vehicles involving competitive accelerations or speeds. The operation of two or
more vehicles side by side either at speeds in excess of prima-facie lawful
speeds established by R.C. § 4511.21(B)(1)(a) to (B)(9) or rapidly accelerating
from a common starting point to a speed in excess of such prima-facie lawful
speeds shall be prima-facie evidence of street racing.
      STREET TAKEOVER. Blocking or impeding the regular flow of vehicle or
pedestrian traffic on a public road, street, or highway or on private property
that is open to the general public for the purpose of street racing or stunt
driving.
      STUNT DRIVING. Performing or engaging in burnouts, doughnuts, drifting,
or wheelies, or allowing a passenger to ride either partially or fully outside
of the vehicle while operating that vehicle.
      WHEELIE. A maneuver performed while operating a vehicle whereby the front
wheel or wheels of the vehicle are raised off of the ground or whereby two
wheels that are on the same side of the vehicle are raised off of the ground.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly participate in street racing, stunt driving,
or street takeover upon any public road, street, or highway, or on private
property that is open to the general public.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of street racing, stunt
driving, or street takeover, a misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition to
any other sanctions, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary
license, or nonresident operating privilege for not less than 30 days or more
than three years. No judge shall suspend the first 30 days of any suspension of
an offender’s license, permit, or privilege imposed under this division.
   (D)   Persons rendering assistance in any manner to street racing, stunt
driving, or street takeover shall be equally charged as the participants.
   (E)   This section does not apply to the competitive operation of vehicles
on public or private property when the political subdivision with jurisdiction
of the location or owner of the property knowingly permits such operation
thereon.
(R.C. § 4511.251)
§ 73.34 SPEED REGULATIONS ON BRIDGES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle over any bridge or other
elevated structure constituting a part of a highway at a speed which is greater
than the maximum speed that can be maintained with safety to such bridge or
structure, when such structure is posted with signs as provided in this
section.
      (2)   The Department of Transportation upon request from any local
authority shall, or upon its own initiative may, conduct an investigation of
any bridge or other elevated structure constituting a part of a highway, and if
it finds that such structure cannot with safety withstand traffic travelling at
the speed otherwise permissible under this Traffic Code, the Department shall
determine and declare the maximum speed of traffic which such structure can
withstand, and shall cause or permit suitable signs stating such maximum speed
to be erected and maintained at a distance of a least 100 feet before each end
of the structure.
      (3)   Upon the trial of any person charged with a violation of this
section, proof of such determination of the maximum speed by the Department and
the existence of such signs shall constitute prima facie evidence of the
maximum speed which can be maintained with safety to such bridge or structure.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.23)
RESISTING OFFICER
§ 73.45 PROHIBITION AGAINST RESISTING OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall resist, hinder, obstruct, or abuse any sheriff,
constable, or other official while that official is attempting to arrest
offenders under any provision of this title. No person shall interfere with any
person charged under any provision of this title with the enforcement of the
law relative to public highways.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.36)
   (C)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the hindrance,
obstruction, resistance, or interference alleged consisted of constitutionally
protected speech only.
§ 73.46 PRESENTING FALSE NAME OR INFORMATION TO OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly present, display, or orally communicate a
false name, social security number, or date of birth to a law enforcement
officer who is in the process of issuing to the person a traffic ticket or
complaint.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4513.361)
STOPPING AFTER ACCIDENT
§ 73.60 FAILURE TO STOP AFTER ACCIDENT.
   (A)   (1)   In the case of a motor vehicle accident or collision with
persons or property on a public road or highway, the operator of the motor
vehicle, having knowledge of the accident or collision, immediately shall stop
the operator’s motor vehicle at the scene of the accident or collision. The
operator shall remain at the scene of the accident or collision until the
operator has given the operator’s name and address and, if the operator is not
the owner, the name and address of the owner of that motor vehicle, together
with the registered number of that motor vehicle, to all of the following:
         (a)   Any person injured in the accident or collision;
         (b)   The operator, occupant, owner, or attendant of any motor vehicle
damaged in the accident or collision;
         (c)   The police officer at the scene of the accident or collision.
      (2)   In the event an injured person is unable to comprehend and record
the information required to be given under division (A)(1) of this section, the
other operator involved in the accident or collision shall notify the nearest
police authority concerning the location of the accident or collision, and the
operator’s name, address, and the registered number of the motor vehicle the
operator was operating. The operator shall remain at the scene of the accident
or collision until a police officer arrives, unless removed from the scene by
an emergency vehicle operated by a political subdivision or an ambulance.
      (3)   If the accident or collision is with an unoccupied or unattended
motor vehicle, the operator who collides with the motor vehicle shall securely
attach the information required to be given in this section, in writing, to a
conspicuous place in or on the unoccupied or unattended motor vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after an accident. Except as otherwise provided in division (B)
(2) or (B)(3) of this section, failure to stop after an accident is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the accident or collision results in serious physical harm to a
person, failure to stop after an accident is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the accident or collision results in the death of a person,
failure to stop after an accident is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (4)   In all cases, the court, in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a class five suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(5). No judge shall suspend the first six months
of suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege required by this
division.
      (5)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. §
2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.02)
§ 73.61 STOPPING AFTER ACCIDENT ON OTHER THAN PUBLIC ROADS OR HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   (1)   In the case of a motor vehicle accident or collision resulting
in injury or damage to persons or property on any public or private property
other than a public road or highway, the operator of the motor vehicle, having
knowledge of the accident or collision, shall stop at the scene of the accident
or collision. Upon request of any person who is injured or damaged, or any
other person, the operator shall give that person the operator’s name and
address, and, if the operator is not the owner, the name and address of the
owner of that motor vehicle, together with the registered number of that motor
vehicle, and, if available, exhibit the operator’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license.
      (2)   If the operator of the motor vehicle involved in the accident or
collision does not provide the information specified in division (A)(1) of this
section, the operator shall give that information, within 24 hours after the
accident or collision, to the police department of the city or village in which
the accident or collision occurred, or if it occurred outside the corporate
limits of a city or village, to the sheriff of the county in which the accident
or collision occurred.
      (3)   If the accident or collision is with an unoccupied or unattended
motor vehicle, the operator who collides with the motor vehicle shall securely
attach the information required under division (A)(1) of this section, in
writing, to a conspicuous place in or on the unoccupied or unattended motor
vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident. Except as otherwise provided
in division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this section, failure to stop after a nonpublic
road accident is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the accident or collision results in serious physical harm to a
person, failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the accident or collision results in the death of a person,
failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (4)   In all cases, the court, in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a class five suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(5). No judge shall suspend the first six months
of suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege required by this
division.
      (5)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. §
2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.021)
§ 73.62 ACCIDENT INVOLVING DAMAGE TO REALTY.
   (A)   (1)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in
damage to real property, or personal property attached to real property,
legally upon or adjacent to a public road or highway immediately shall stop and
take reasonable steps to locate and notify the owner or person in charge of the
property of that fact, of the driver’s name and address, and of the
registration number of vehicle the driver is driving and, upon request and if
available, shall exhibit the driver’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license.
      (2)   If the owner or person in charge of the property cannot be located
after reasonable search, the driver of the vehicle involved in the accident
resulting in damage to the property, within 24 hours after accident, shall
forward to the police department of the municipality the same information
required to be given to the owner or person in control of the property and give
the location of the accident and a description of the damage insofar as it is
known.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after an accident involving the property of others, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during, or
after committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.03)
§ 73.63 FAILURE TO REPORT ACCIDENT.
   (A)   No person shall fail to report a motor vehicle accident as required
under state or local law.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4509.74)
CHAPTER 74: EQUIPMENT AND LOADS
Section
Equipment
   
74.01   Unsafe vehicles, prohibition against operation
   
74.02   Bumpers on motor vehicles
   
74.03   Lighted lights required
   
74.04   Headlights
   
74.05   Tail lights and illumination of rear license plate
   
74.06   Red reflectors required
   
74.07   Safety lighting of commercial vehicles
   
74.08   Stoplight regulations
   
74.09   Obscured lights on vehicles
   
74.10   Red light or flag required
   
74.11   Lights on parked vehicles
   
74.12   Lights, emblems, and reflectors on slow-moving vehicles, farm
machinery, agricultural tractors, and animal-drawn vehicles
   
74.13   Spotlight and auxiliary driving lights
   
74.14   Cowl, fender, and back-up lights
   
74.15   Two lights displayed
   
74.16   Headlights required
   
74.17   Lights of less intensity
   
74.18   Number of lights permitted; red and flashing lights
   
74.19   Standards for lights on snow removal equipment and oversize vehicles
   
74.20   Flashing lights permitted for certain types of vehicles
   
74.21   Lights and sign on transportation for preschool children
   
74.22   Focus and aim of headlights
   
74.23   Brake equipment; specifications
   
74.24   Brake fluid
   
74.25   Minimum standards for brakes and components
   
74.26   Horns, sirens, and warning devices
   
74.27   Mufflers; excessive smoke or gas
   
74.28   Rearview mirrors
   
74.29   Windshields and wipers
   
74.30   Solid tire requirements
   
74.31   Requirements for safety glass in motor vehicles; use of tinted glass or
reflectorized material
   
74.32   Directional signals
   
74.33   Installation and sale of seat safety belts required; definition
   
74.34   Requirements for extra signal equipment
   
74.35   Display of warning devices on disabled vehicles
   
74.36   Requirements for vehicles transporting explosives
   
74.37   Studded tires; seasonal use permitted
   
74.38   Safety inspection decals for buses
   
74.39   Air bags
Loads
   
74.50   Permit required to exceed load limits
   
74.51   Limitation of load extension on left side of vehicle
   
74.52   All loads shall be properly secured
   
74.53   Towing requirements; exception to size and weight restrictions
   
74.54   Load limits; load limits on local streets
Statutory reference:
   Exemption of certain vehicles from emission, noise control and fuel
standards, see R.C. § 4513.41
   Exemption of collector’s or historical vehicles from equipment standards,
see R.C. § 4513.38
   Motorcycles, protective eye devices required for operators and passengers;
helmets required for persons under 18 years of age, see O.A.C. § 4501-17-01
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
   Snowmobiles and all-purpose vehicles, equipment, see O.A.C. § 4501-29-01
   Vehicle lighting, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-15
Cross-reference:
   Municipal motor vehicle license fee, §
38.12
EQUIPMENT
§ 74.01 UNSAFE VEHICLES, PROHIBITION AGAINST OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall drive or move, or cause or knowingly permit to be
driven or moved, on any highway any vehicle or combination of vehicles which is
in such unsafe condition as to endanger any person.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.02(A), (H))
§ 74.02 BUMPERS ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT RATING means the manufacturer’s gross vehicle weight
rating established for that vehicle.
      MANUFACTURER has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      MULTIPURPOSE PASSENGER VEHICLE means a motor vehicle with motive power,
except a motorcycle, designed to carry ten persons or less, that is constructed
either on a truck chassis or with special features for occasional off-road
operation.
      PASSENGER CAR means any motor vehicle with motive power, designed for
carrying ten persons or less, except a multipurpose passenger vehicle or
motorcycle.
      TRUCK means every motor vehicle, except trailers and semitrailers,
designed and used to carry property and having a gross vehicle weight rating of
10,000 pounds or less.
   (B)   Rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety, in accordance with
R.C. Chapter 119, shall govern the maximum bumper height or, in the absence of
bumpers and in cases where bumper height have been lowered or modified, the
maximum height to the bottom of the frame rail of any passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck.
   (C)   No person shall operate upon a street or highway any passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck registered in this state that does not
conform to the requirements of this section or any applicable rule adopted
pursuant to R.C. § 4513.021.
   (D)   No person shall modify any motor vehicle registered in this state in
such a manner as to cause the vehicle body or chassis to come in contact with
the ground, expose the fuel tank to damage from collision, or cause the wheels
to come in contact with the body under normal operation, and no person shall
disconnect any part of the original suspension system of the vehicle to defeat
the safe operation of that system.
   (E)   Nothing contained in this section or in the rules adopted pursuant to
R.C. § 4513.021 shall be construed to prohibit either of the following:
      (1)   The installation upon a passenger car, multipurpose passenger
vehicle or truck registered in this state of heavy duty equipment, including
shock absorbers and overload springs:
      (2)   The operation on a street or highway of a passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle, or truck registered in this state with normal
wear to the suspension system if the normal wear does not adversely affect the
control of the vehicle.
   (F)   This section and the rules adopted pursuant to R.C. § 4513.021 do not
apply to any specially designed or modified passenger car, multipurpose
passenger vehicle, or truck when operated off a street or highway in races and
similar events.
   (G)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.021)
Statutory reference:
   Maximum height on bumpers, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-43
§ 74.03 LIGHTED LIGHTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   Every vehicle upon a street or highway within this municipality
during the time from sunset to sunrise, and at any other time when there are
unfavorable atmospheric conditions or when there is not sufficient natural
light to render discernible persons, vehicles, and substantial objects on the
highway at a distance of 1,000 feet ahead, shall display lighted lights and
illuminating devices as required by the provisions of this chapter, for
different classes of vehicles; except that every motorized bicycle shall
display at such times lighted lights meeting the rules adopted by the Director
of Public Safety. No motor vehicle, during such times, shall be operated upon a
street or highway within this municipality using only parking lights as
illumination.
      (2)   Whenever in this chapter a requirement is declared as to the
distance from which certain lamps and devices shall render objects visible, or
within which such lamps or devices shall be visible, this distance shall be
measured upon a straight level unlighted highway under normal atmospheric
conditions unless a different condition is expressly stated.
      (3)   Whenever in this chapter a requirement is declared as to the
mounted height of lights or devices, it shall mean from the center of such
light or device to the level ground upon which the vehicle stands.
      (4)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator or a vehicle being operated upon a
street or highway within this state to stop the vehicle solely because the
officer observes that a violation of division (A)(3) of this section has been
or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or
summons for a violation of that division, or causing the arrest of or
commencing prosecution of a person for a violation of that division.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor
(Ord. 2010-62, passed 9-15-10)
Statutory reference:
   For similar state law provisions, see R.C. § 4513.03
§ 74.04 HEADLIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, shall be equipped
with at least two headlights with at least one near each side of the front of
the motor vehicle.
      (2)   Every motorcycle shall be equipped with at least one and not more
than two headlights.
(R.C. § 4513.04)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2010-62, passed 9-15-10)
§ 74.05 TAIL LIGHTS AND ILLUMINATION OF REAR LICENSE PLATE.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, pole trailer or
vehicle which is being drawn at the end of a train of vehicles shall be
equipped with at least one tail light mounted on the rear which, when lighted,
shall emit a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear,
provided that in the case of a train of vehicles only the tail light on the
rearmost vehicle need be visible from the distance specified.
      (2)   Either a tail light or a separate light shall be so constructed and
placed as to illuminate with a white light the rear registration plate, when
such registration plate is required, and render it legible from a distance of
50 feet to the rear. Any tail light, together with any separate light for
illuminating the rear registration plate, shall be so wired as to be lighted
whenever the headlights or auxiliary driving lights are lighted, except where
separate lighting systems are provided for trailers for the purpose of
illuminating such registration plate.
(R.C. § 4513.05)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2010-62, passed 9-15-10)
§ 74.06 RED REFLECTORS REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   Every new motor vehicle sold after September 6, 1941, and
operated on a highway, other than a commercial tractor to which a trailer or
semitrailer is attached, shall carry at the rear, either as a part of the tail
lamps or separately, two red reflectors meeting the requirements of this
section, except that vehicles of the type mentioned in R.C. § 4513.07 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance shall be equipped with reflectors
as required by the regulations provided for in that section.
      (2)   Every such reflector shall be of such size and characteristics and
so maintained as to be visible at night from all distances within 300 feet to
50 feet from such vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.06)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2010-62, passed 9-15-10)
§ 74.07 SAFETY LIGHTING OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   When the Director of Public Safety prescribes and promulgates
regulations relating to clearance lights, marker lights, reflectors and stop
lights on buses, trucks, commercial tractors, trailers, semitrailers and pole
trailers, when operated upon any highway, these vehicles shall be equipped as
required by such regulations, and such equipment shall be lighted at all times
mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
except that clearance lights and side marker lights need not be lighted on any
such vehicle when it is operated within the municipality where there is
sufficient light to reveal any person or substantial object on the highway at a
distance of 500 feet.
      (2)   Such equipment shall be in addition to all other lights
specifically required by R.C. §§ 4513.03 through 4513.16, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinances.
      (3)   Vehicles operated under the jurisdiction of the Public Utilities
Commission are not subject to this section.
(R.C. § 4513.07)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2010-62, passed 9-15-10)
§ 74.08 STOPLIGHT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, and pole trailer when
operated upon a highway shall be equipped with two or more stop lights, except
that passenger cars manufactured or assembled prior to January 1, 1967,
motorcycles, and motor-driven cycles shall be equipped with at least one stop
light. Stop lights shall be mounted on the rear of the vehicle, actuated upon
application of the service brake, and may be incorporated with other rear
lights. Such stop lights when actuated shall emit a red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear; provided that in the case of a train of
vehicles only the stop lights on the rearmost vehicle need be visible from the
distance specified.
      (2)   Such stop lights when actuated shall give a steady warning light to
the rear of a vehicle or train of vehicles to indicate the intention of the
operator to diminish the speed of or stop a vehicle or train of vehicles.
      (3)   When stop lights are used as required by this section, they shall
be constructed or installed so as to provide adequate and reliable illumination
and shall conform to the appropriate rules and regulations established under
R.C. § 4513.19.
      (4)   Historical motor vehicles as defined in R.C. § 4503.181, not
originally manufactured with stop lights, are not subject to this section.
(R.C. § 4513.071)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2010-62, passed 9-15-10)
§ 74.09 OBSCURED LIGHTS ON VEHICLES.
   Whenever motor and other vehicles are operated in combination during the
time that lights are required, any light, except tail lights, which by reason
of its location on a vehicle of the combination would be obscured by another
vehicle of the combination, need not be lighted, but this section does not
affect the requirement that lighted clearance lights be displayed on the front
of the foremost vehicle required to have clearance lights or that all lights
required on the rear of the rearmost vehicle of any combination shall be
lighted.
(R.C. § 4513.08)
§ 74.10 RED LIGHT OR FLAG REQUIRED.
   (A)   Whenever the load upon any vehicle extends to the rear four feet or
more beyond the bed or body of this vehicle, there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear end of the load, at the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, a red light or lantern plainly
visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the sides and rear. The red
light or lantern required by this section is in addition to the red rear light
required upon every vehicle. At any other time there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear end of such load a red flag or cloth not less than 16 inches
square.
(R.C. § 4513.09)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2010-62, passed 9-15-10)
§ 74.11 LIGHTS ON PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Except in case of an emergency, whenever a vehicle is parked or
stopped upon a roadway open to traffic or a shoulder adjacent thereto, whether
attended or unattended, during the times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, such vehicle shall be equipped
with one or more lights which shall exhibit a white or amber light on the
roadway side visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front of such vehicle,
and a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear. No lights need
be displayed upon any such vehicle when it is stopped or parked within the
municipality where there is sufficient light to reveal any person or
substantial object within a distance of 500 feet upon such highway. Any lighted
headlights upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or dimmed.
(R.C. § 4513.10)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.12 LIGHTS, EMBLEMS, AND REFLECTORS ON SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES, FARM
MACHINERY, AGRICULTURAL TRACTORS, AND ANIMAL-DRAWN VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      BOAT TRAILER. Means any vehicle designed and used exclusively to
transport a boat between a place of storage and a marina, or in and around a
marina, when drawn or towed on a street or highway for a distance of no more
than ten miles and at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less.
      SLOW-MOVING VEHICLE and SMV. Mean a boat trailer, unit of farm machinery,
road construction machinery, or other machinery designed by the manufacturer to
operate at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less. The term does not include a
bicycle, motorized bicycle, electric bicycle, or animal-drawn vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.11)
   (B)   Generally.
      (1)   At the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, no person shall operate
either of the following vehicles unless it is equipped with and displays the
lamps described in division (B)(2) of this section:
         (a)   A vehicle not specifically required to be equipped with lamps or
other lighting devices by R.C. §§ 4513.03 to 4513.10;
         (b)   A vehicle referred to in R.C. § 4513.02(G).
      (2)   Vehicles described in division (B)(1) of this section shall be
equipped with both of the following:
         (a)   At least one lamp displaying a white light visible from a
distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the front of the vehicle;
         (b)   Two lamps displaying red light visible from a distance of not
less than 1,000 feet to the rear of the vehicle, or as an alternative, one lamp
displaying a red light visible from a distance of not less than 1,000 feet to
the rear and two red reflectors visible from all distances of 600 feet to 100
feet to the rear when illuminated by the lawful lower beams of headlamps.
      (3)   (a)   At the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, no person shall
operate a multi-wheel agricultural tractor model year 2001 or earlier on a
street or highway unless it is equipped with and displays reflectors and
illuminated amber lamps so that the extreme left and right projections of the
tractor are indicated by all of the following:
            1.   Flashing lamps displaying amber light, visible to the front
and the rear. The lamps need not flash simultaneously and need not flash in
conjunction with any directional signals of the tractor.
            2.   Amber reflectors, all visible to the front;
            3.   Red reflectors, all visible to the rear.
         (b)   Rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety under R.C. §
4513.111 governing the lamps and reflectors described in division (B)(3)(a) of
this section and their placement correlate with and, as far as possible,
conform with paragraphs 4.1.4.1, 4.1.7.1, and 4.1.7.2 respectively of the
American Society of Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S279.10 OCT 98,
Lighting and Marking of Agricultural Equipment on Highways.
      (4)   At the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, no person shall operate a
unit of farm machinery model year 2002 or later on a street or highway unless
it is equipped with and displays markings and illuminated lamps that meet or
exceed the lighting, illumination, and marking standards and specifications
that are applicable to that type of farm machinery for the unit's model year
specified in the American society of agricultural engineers standard ANSI/ASAE
S279.10 OCT 98, lighting and marking of agricultural equipment on highways.
      (5)   Any unit of farm machinery designed by its manufacturer to operate
at a speed of 25 miles per hour or greater or any SMV may be equipped with and
display a red flashing light that is visible from a distance of not less than
1,000 feet to the rear at all times specified in R.C. § 4513.03. When a double-
faced light is used, it shall display amber light to the front and red light to
the rear.
      (6)   Lights and reflectors required under divisions (B)(3) and (B)(4) of
this section and authorized under division (B)(5) of this section are in
addition to other lights required or permitted by this division (B) or R.C. §
4513.17.
      (7)   The Ohio Director of Public Safety shall adopt rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 that establish standards and specifications for lamps and
reflectors required or authorized by this section. Lamps and reflectors
required or authorized by this section shall meet those standards and
specifications.
      (8)   This division (B) does not apply to a bicycle, motorized bicycle,
electric bicycle, or animal-drawn vehicle.
      (9)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.111)
   (C)   Slow-moving vehicles.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no person shall
operate an SMV on a street or highway as follows:
         (a)   At a speed exceeding 25 miles per hour;
         (b)   Without displaying the triangular SMV emblem mounted in
accordance with division (C)(2) of this section.
      (2)   The SMV emblem shall be mounted so as to be visible from a distance
of not less than 500 feet to the rear. In accordance with R.C. Chapter 119, the
Ohio Director of Public Safety shall adopt standards and specifications for the
design and position of mounting the SMV emblem. The standards and
specifications for the SMV emblem correlate with and, so far as possible,
conform with those approved by the American Society of Agricultural Engineers.
      (3)   A person may operate an SMV on a street or highway without
displaying the triangular SMV emblem when any of the following apply:
         (a)   The SMV is being used in actual construction and maintenance
work in an area guarded by a flagperson, or where flares are used.
         (b)   The SMV is operating or traveling within the limits of a
construction area designated by the Ohio Director of Transportation, a city
engineer, or the county engineer of the several counties, when such
construction area is marked in accordance with requirements of the Ohio
Director of Transportation and the Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices,
as set forth in R.C. § 4511.09.
      (4)   No person shall display an SMV emblem on any of the following:
         (a)   Any vehicle not required to use the SMV emblem by this division
(C) or R.C. § 4513.113 or 4513.114;
         (b)   An SMV being transported upon any other vehicle;
         (c)   Any stationary object on the highway.
      (5)   No person shall sell, lease, rent, or operate an SMV, except a unit
designed to be completely mounted on a primary power unit that is manufactured
or assembled on or after April 1, 1966, unless it is equipped with an SMV
emblem mounting device.
      (6)   Whoever violates this division (C) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.112)
   (D)   Farm machinery and agricultural tractors.
      (1)   No person shall sell, lease, rent, or operate on a street or
highway any unit of farm machinery that is designed by its manufacturer to
operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour unless the unit displays both
of the following:
         (a)   The SMV emblem mounted in accordance with R.C. § 4513.112(B);
         (b)   A speed identification symbol that does both of the following:
            1.   Meets the specifications contained in the American Society of
Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S584 JAN2005, Agricultural Equipment:
Speed Identification Symbol (SIS);
            2.   Indicates the maximum speed in miles per hour at which the
unit of farm machinery is designed by its manufacturer to operate.
      (2)   No person operating a tractor on a street or highway that is
designed by its manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per
hour and that is towing, pulling, or otherwise drawing a unit of farm machinery
while operating at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour shall fail to display
both of the following on the unit of farm machinery:
         (a)   The SMV emblem;
         (b)   The speed identification symbol that matches the speed
identification symbol required to be displayed on the agricultural tractor.
      (3)   No person shall operate an agricultural tractor that is designed by
its manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour unless
the person possesses documentation published or provided by the manufacturer
indicating the maximum speed in miles per hour at which the manufacturer
designed the agricultural tractor to operate.
      (4)   Whoever violates this division (D) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.113)
   (E)   Animal-drawn vehicles.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (E)(4) of this section, no
person shall operate an animal-drawn vehicle on a street or highway unless it
is equipped with and displays, at the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, both
of the following:
         (a)   At least one lamp displaying a white light visible from a
distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the front of the animal-drawn vehicle;
         (b)   Two lamps displaying red light visible from a distance of not
less than 1,000 feet to the rear of the animal-drawn vehicle, or as an
alternative, one lamp displaying a red light visible from a distance of not
less than 1,000 feet to the rear and two red reflectors visible from all
distances of 600 feet to one hundred feet to the rear when illuminated by the
lawful lower beams of headlamps.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (E)(4) of this section, no
person shall operate an animal-drawn vehicle on a street or highway unless it
is equipped with and displays, at all times, all of the following:
         (a)   One yellow flashing lamp displaying yellow light that is visible
from a distance of not less than 1,000 feet and that is mounted in either of
the following positions:
            1.   On the top most portion of the rear of the animal-drawn
vehicle;
            2.   On the top of the animal-drawn vehicle.
         (b)   At least one of the following:
            1.   An SMV emblem mounted in accordance with R.C. § 4513.112(B);
            2.   Micro-prism reflective tape that is visible from a distance of
not less than 500 feet to the rear when illuminated by the lawful lower beams
of headlamps;
            3.   Both an SMV emblem and micro-prism reflective tape, as
specified in this division.
         (c)   Lamps and micro-prism reflective tape required by this section
shall meet standards and specifications adopted by the Ohio Director of Public
Safety under R.C. § 4513.114.
      (3)   The Ohio Director of Public Safety, in accordance with R.C. Chapter
119, shall adopt rules establishing standards and specifications for the
position and mounting of the lamps and micro-prism reflective tape required by
R.C. § 4513.114. The rules permit the micro-prism reflective tape to be red,
amber, white, or silver in color.
      (4)   (a)   Divisions (E)(1) and (E)(2) of this section do not apply to
the operator of animal-drawn agricultural equipment who is not transporting any
livestock or a person other than the operator.
         (b)   No operator described in division (E)(4)(a) of this section
shall operate animal-drawn agricultural equipment unless it is equipped with
and displays, at all times, the SMV emblem mounted in accordance with R.C. §
4513.112(B).
         (c)   As used in division (E)(4) of this section, "animal-drawn
agricultural equipment" means equipment drawn by the muscular power of an
animal that is used solely for agricultural purposes. "Animal-drawn
agricultural equipment" includes any of the following:
            1.   A plow;
            2.   A manure spreader;
            3.   A thresher.
      (5)   Whoever violates this division (E) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.114)
   (F)   Strict liability offenses. The offenses established under this section
are strict liability offenses, and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The
designation of these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be
construed to imply that any other offense, for which there is no specified
degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. § 4513.115)
   (G)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2010-62, passed 9-15-10)
§ 74.13 SPOTLIGHT AND AUXILIARY DRIVING LIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than one
spotlight and every lighted spotlight shall be so aimed and used upon
approaching another vehicle that no part of the high-intensity portion of the
beam will be directed to the left of the prolongation of the extreme left side
of the vehicle, nor more than 100 feet ahead of the vehicle.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than three
auxiliary driving lights mounted on the front of the vehicle. Any such lights
which do not conform to the specifications for auxiliary driving lights and the
regulations for their use prescribed by the Director of Public Safety shall not
be used.
(R.C. § 4513.12)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2010-62, passed 9-15-10)
§ 74.14 COWL, FENDER, AND BACK-UP LIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with side cowl or fender
lights which shall emit a white or amber light without glare.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with lights on each side thereof
which shall emit a white or amber light without glare.
      (3)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with back-up lights, either
separately or in combination with another light. No back-up lights shall be
continuously lighted when the motor vehicle is in forward motion.
(R.C. § 4513.13)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2010-62, passed 9-15-10)
§ 74.15 TWO LIGHTS DISPLAYED.
   (A)   At all times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, at least two lighted lights shall be displayed, one near
each side of the front of every motor vehicle, except when such vehicle is
parked subject to the regulations governing lights on parked vehicles.
(R.C. § 4513.14)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2010-62, passed 9-15-10)
§ 74.16 HEADLIGHTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Whenever a motor vehicle is being operated on a roadway or shoulder
adjacent thereto during the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the driver shall use a
distribution of light, or composite beam, directed high enough and of
sufficient intensity to reveal persons, vehicles and substantial objects at a
safe distance in advance of the vehicle, subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   Whenever the driver of a vehicle approaches an oncoming vehicle,
such driver shall use a distribution of light, or composite beam, so aimed that
the glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of the oncoming driver.
      (2)   Every new motor vehicle registered in this state which has
multiple-beam road lighting equipment shall be equipped with a beam indicator,
which shall be lighted whenever the uppermost distribution of light from the
headlights is in use, and shall not otherwise be lighted. This indicator shall
be so designed and located that, when lighted, it will be readily visible
without glare to the driver of the vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.15)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2010-62, passed 9-15-10)
§ 74.17 LIGHTS OF LESS INTENSITY.
   (A)   Any motor vehicle may be operated under the conditions specified in
R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance when it is
equipped with two lighted lights upon the front thereof capable of revealing
persons and substantial objects 75 feet ahead, in lieu of lights required in
R.C. § 4513.14 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, provided that
such vehicle shall not be operated at a speed in excess of 20 miles per hour.
(R.C. § 4513.16)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2010-62, passed 9-15-10)
§ 74.18 NUMBER OF LIGHTS PERMITTED; RED AND FLASHING LIGHTS.
   (A)   Whenever a motor vehicle equipped with headlights is also equipped
with any auxiliary lights or spotlight or any other light on the front thereof
projecting a beam of an intensity greater than 300 candlepower, not more than a
total of five of any such lights on the front of a vehicle shall be lighted at
any one time when the vehicle is upon a highway.
   (B)   Any lighted light or illuminating device upon a motor vehicle, other
than headlights, spotlights, signal lights, or auxiliary driving lights, that
projects a beam of light of an intensity greater than 300 candlepower shall be
so directed that no part of the beam will strike the level of the roadway on
which the vehicle stands at a distance of more than 75 feet from the vehicle.
   (C)   (1)   Flashing lights are prohibited on motor vehicles, except as a
means for indicating a right or a left turn, or in the presence of a vehicular
traffic hazard requiring unusual care in approaching, or overtaking or passing.
      (2)   The prohibition in division (C)(1) of this section does not apply
to any of the following:
         (a)   Emergency vehicles, road service vehicles servicing or towing a
disabled vehicle, stationary waste collection vehicles actively collecting
garbage, refuse, trash, or recyclable materials on the roadside, rural mail
delivery vehicles, vehicles as provided in R.C. § 4513.182, highway maintenance
vehicles, and similar equipment operated by state or local authorities,
provided such vehicles are equipped with and display, when used on a street or
highway for the special purpose necessitating such lights, a flashing,
oscillating, or rotating amber light;
         (b)   Vehicles or machinery permitted by R.C. § 4513.111 to have a
flashing red light;
         (c)   Farm machinery and vehicles escorting farm machinery, provided
such machinery and vehicles are equipped with and display, when used on a
street or highway, a flashing, oscillating, or rotating amber light. Farm
machinery also may display the lights described in R.C. § 4513.111;
         (d)   A funeral hearse or funeral escort vehicle, provided that the
funeral hearse or funeral escort vehicle is equipped with and displays, when
used on a street or highway for the special purpose necessitating such lights,
a flashing, oscillating, or rotating purple or amber light;
         (e)   A vehicle being used for emergency preparedness, response, and
recovery activities, as those terms are defined in R.C. § 5502.21, that is
equipped with and displays, when used on a street or highway for the special
purpose necessitating such lights, a flashing, oscillating, or rotating amber
or red and white light, provided that the vehicle is being operated by a person
from one of the following and the vehicle is clearly marked with the applicable
agency’s or authority’s insignia:
            1.   The Ohio Emergency Management Agency;
            2.   A countywide emergency management agency established under
R.C. § 5502.26;
            3.   A regional authority for emergency management established
under R.C. § 5502.27;
            4.   A program for emergency management established under R.C. §
5502.271.
      (3)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to animal-drawn
vehicles subject to R.C. § 4513.114.
   (D)   (1)   Except a person operating a public safety vehicle, as defined in
R.C. § 4511.01(E), an emergency management agency vehicle, as described in
division (C)(2)(e) of this section, or a school bus, no person shall operate,
move, or park upon, or permit to stand within the right-of-way of any public
street or highway any vehicle or equipment that is equipped with and displaying
a flashing red or a flashing combination red and white light, or an oscillating
or rotating red light, or a combination red and white oscillating or rotating
light.
      (2)   Except a public law enforcement officer, or other person sworn to
enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state, operating a public safety
vehicle when on duty, no person shall operate, move, or park upon, or permit to
stand within the right-of-way of any street or highway any vehicle or equipment
that is equipped with, or upon which is mounted, and displaying a flashing blue
or a flashing combination blue and white light, or an oscillating or rotating
blue light, or a combination blue and white oscillating or rotating light.
   (E)   This section does not prohibit the use of warning lights required by
law or the simultaneous flashing of turn signals on disabled vehicles or on
vehicles being operated in unfavorable atmospheric conditions in order to
enhance their visibility. This section also does not prohibit the simultaneous
flashing of turn signals or warning lights whether on farm machinery or
vehicles escorting farm machinery when used on a street or highway.
(R.C. § 4513.17)
   (F)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a motor vehicle
operated by a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator may be equipped
with a flashing, oscillating or rotating red or blue light and siren, whistle
or bell capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions from a
distance of not less than 500 feet. Such a vehicle may display the flashing,
oscillating or rotating red or blue light and may give the audible signal of
the siren, whistle or bell only when responding to a fatality or a fatal motor
vehicle accident on a street or highway and only at those locations where the
stoppage of traffic impedes the ability of the coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator to arrive at the site of the fatality.
      (2)   This division (F) does not relieve the coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle from the duty to drive with
due regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4513.171)
   (G)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2010-62, passed 9-15-10)
§ 74.19 STANDARDS FOR LIGHTS ON SNOW REMOVAL EQUIPMENT AND OVERSIZE VEHICLES.
   (A)   It is unlawful to operate snow removal equipment on a highway unless
the lights thereon comply with and are lighted when and as required by the
standards and specifications adopted by the Director of Transportation pursuant
to R.C. § 4513.18.
(R.C. § 4513.18)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2010-62, passed 9-15-10)
§ 74.20 FLASHING LIGHTS PERMITTED FOR CERTAIN TYPES OF VEHICLES.
   Rural mail delivery vehicles, state highway survey vehicles, and funeral
escort vehicles are permitted to use flashing lights.
(R.C. § 4513.181)
§ 74.21 LIGHTS AND SIGN ON TRANSPORTATION FOR PRESCHOOL CHILDREN.
   (A)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle owned, leased, or hired by a
nursery school, kindergarten, or child care center, while transporting
preschool children to or from such an institution unless the motor vehicle is
equipped with and displaying two amber flashing lights mounted on a bar
attached to the top of the vehicle, and a sign bearing the designation “caution
– children”, which shall be attached to the bar carrying the amber flashing
lights in such a manner as to be legible to persons both in front of and behind
the vehicle. The lights and sign shall meet standards and specifications
adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle displaying the lights and sign
required by this section for any purpose other than the transportation of
preschool children as provided in this section.
(R.C. § 4513.182)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.22 FOCUS AND AIM OF HEADLIGHTS.
   (A)   No person shall use any lights mentioned in R.C. §§ 4513.03 through
4513.18, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, upon any motor
vehicle, trailer or semitrailer unless these lights are equipped, mounted and
adjusted as to focus and aim in accordance with regulations which are
prescribed by the Director of Public Safety.
(R.C. § 4513.19)
   (B)   The headlights on any motor vehicle shall comply with the headlamp
color requirements contained in Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number
108, 49 C.F.R. § 571.108. No person shall operate a motor vehicle in violation
of this division.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2010-62, passed 9-15-10)
§ 74.23 BRAKE EQUIPMENT; SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The following requirements govern as to brake equipment on vehicles:
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, when operated upon a
highway shall be equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and
to stop and hold the motor vehicle, including two separate means of applying
the brakes, each of which means shall be effective to apply the brakes to at
least two wheels. If these two separate means of applying the brakes are
connected in any way, then on such motor vehicles, manufactured or assembled
after January 1, 1942, they shall be so constructed that failure of any one
part of the operating mechanism shall not leave the motor vehicle without
brakes on at least two wheels.
      (2)   Every motorcycle, when operated upon a highway shall be equipped
with at least one adequate brake, which may be operated by hand or by foot.
      (3)   Every motorized bicycle shall be equipped with brakes meeting the
rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety under R.C. § 4511.521.
      (4)   When operated upon the highways, the following vehicles shall be
equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and to
hold the vehicle, designed to be applied by the driver of the towing motor
vehicle from its cab, and also designed and connected so that, in case of a
breakaway of the towed vehicle, the brakes shall be automatically applied:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, every trailer or
semitrailer, except a pole trailer, with an empty weight of 2,000 pounds or
more, manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1942;
         (b)   Every manufactured home or travel trailer with an empty weight
of 2,000 pounds or more, manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 2001.
      (5)   Every watercraft trailer with a gross weight or manufacturer’s
gross vehicle weight rating of 3,000 pounds or more that is manufactured or
assembled on or after January 1, 2008, shall have separate brakes equipped with
hydraulic surge or electrically operated brakes on two wheels.
      (6)   In any combination of motor-drawn trailers or semitrailers equipped
with brakes, means shall be provided for applying the rearmost brakes in
approximate synchronism with the brakes on the towing vehicle, and developing
the required braking effort on the rearmost wheels at the fastest rate; or
means shall be provided for applying braking effort first on the rearmost
brakes; or both of the above means, capable of being used alternatively, may be
employed.
      (7)   Every vehicle and combination of vehicles, except motorcycles and
motorized bicycles, and except trailers and semitrailers of a gross weight of
less than 2,000 pounds, and pole trailers, shall be equipped with parking
brakes adequate to hold the vehicle on any grade on which it is operated, under
all conditions of loading, on a surface free from snow, ice, or loose material.
The parking brakes shall be capable of being applied in conformance with the
foregoing requirements by the driver’s muscular effort or by spring action or
by equivalent means. Their operation may be assisted by the service brakes or
other source of power provided that failure of the service brake actuation
system or other power assisting mechanism will not prevent the parking brakes
from being applied in conformance with the foregoing requirements. The parking
brakes shall be so designed that when once applied they shall remain applied
with the required effectiveness despite exhaustion of any source of energy or
leakage of any kind.
      (8)   The same brake drums, brake shoes and lining assemblies, brake shoe
anchors, and mechanical brake shoe actuation mechanism normally associated with
the wheel brake assemblies may be used for both the service brakes and the
parking brakes. If the means of applying the parking brakes and the service
brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so constructed that failure of
any one part shall not leave the vehicle without operative brakes.
      (9)   Every motor vehicle or combination of motor-drawn vehicles shall,
at all times and under all conditions of loading, be capable of being stopped
on a dry, smooth, level road free from loose material, upon application of the
service or foot brake, within the following specified distances, or shall be
capable of being decelerated at a sustained rate corresponding to these
distances:
         (a)   Vehicles or combinations of vehicles having brakes on all wheels
shall come to a stop in 30 feet or less from a speed of 20 miles per hour.
         (b)   Vehicles or combinations of vehicles not having brakes on all
wheels shall come to a stop in 40 feet or less from a speed of 20 miles per
hour.
      (10)   All brakes shall be maintained in good working order and shall be
so adjusted as to operate as equally as practicable with respect to the wheels
on opposite sides of the vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.20)
   (B)   The usage of any and all special engine brakes are prohibited within
the village. For purposes of this section, SPECIAL ENGINE BRAKES shall be
defined to include, but are not limited to, C Brakes, PacBrakes, TekBrakes, or
any other type of engine retarder commonly utilized within the commercial
trucking industry.
(Ord. 41, passed 10-7-98; Am. Ord. 52, passed 9-6-00)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.24 BRAKE FLUID.
   (A)   No hydraulic brake fluid for use in motor vehicles shall be sold in
this municipality if the brake fluid is below the minimum standard of
specifications for heavy duty type brake fluid established by the society of
automotive engineers and the standard of specifications established by 49
C.F.R. § 571.116, as amended.
   (B)   All manufacturers, packers, or distributors of brake fluid selling
such fluid in this municipality shall state on the containers that the brake
fluid meets or exceeds the applicable minimum SAE standard of specifications,
and the standard of specifications established in 49 C.F.R. § 571.116, as
amended.
(R.C. § 4513.201)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.25 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR BRAKES AND COMPONENTS.
   (A)   No brake lining, brake lining material, or brake lining assemblies for
use as repair and replacement parts in motor vehicles shall be sold in this
municipality if these items do not meet or exceed the minimum standard of
specifications established by the Society of Automotive Engineers and the
standard of specifications established in 49 C.F.R. § 571.105, as amended, and
49 C.F.R. § 571.135, as amended.
   (B)   All manufacturers or distributors of brake lining, brake lining
material, or brake lining assemblies selling these items for use as repair and
replacement parts in motor vehicles shall state that the items meet or exceed
the applicable minimum standard of specifications.
   (C)   As used in this section, MINIMUM STANDARD OF SPECIFICATIONS means a
minimum standard for brake system or brake component performance that meets the
need for motor vehicle safety and complies with the applicable SAE standards
and recommended practices, and the federal motor vehicle safety standards that
cover the same aspect of performance for any brake lining, brake lining
material, or brake lining assemblies.
(R.C. § 4513.202)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.26 HORNS, SIRENS, AND WARNING DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle when operated upon a highway shall be
equipped with a horn which is in good working order and capable of emitting
sound audible, under normal conditions, from a distance of not less than 200
feet.
      (2)   No motor vehicle shall be equipped with, nor shall any person use
upon a vehicle, any siren, whistle, or bell. Any vehicle may be equipped with a
theft alarm signal device which shall be so arranged that it cannot be used as
an ordinary warning signal. Every emergency vehicle shall be equipped with a
siren, whistle or bell, capable of emitting sound audible under normal
conditions from a distance of not less than 500 feet and of a type approved by
the Director of Public Safety. Such equipment shall not be used except when
such vehicle is operated in response to an emergency call or is in the
immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law, in which case
the driver of the emergency vehicle shall sound such equipment when it is
necessary to warn pedestrians and other drivers of the approach thereof.
(R.C. § 4513.21)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2010-62, passed 9-15-10)
§ 74.27 MUFFLERS; EXCESSIVE SMOKE OR GAS.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle and motorcycle with an internal combustion
engine shall at all times be equipped with a muffler which is in good working
order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise, and no
person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass or similar device upon a motor
vehicle on a highway. Every motorcycle muffler shall be equipped with baffle
plates.
      (2)   No person shall own, operate or have in the person’s possession any
motor vehicle or motorcycle equipped with a device for producing excessive
smoke or gas, or so equipped as to permit oil or any other chemical to flow
into or upon the exhaust pipe or muffler of such vehicle, or equipped in any
way to produce or emit smoke or dangerous or annoying gases from any portion of
such vehicle, other than the ordinary gases emitted by the exhaust of an
internal combustion engine under normal operation.
(R.C. § 4513.22)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2010-62, passed 9-15-10)
§ 74.28 REARVIEW MIRRORS.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle and motorcycle shall be equipped with a mirror so
located as to reflect to the operator a view of the highway to the rear of such
vehicle or motorcycle. Operators of vehicles and motorcycles shall have a clear
and unobstructed view to the front and to both sides of their vehicles and
motorcycles and shall have a clear view to the rear of their vehicles and
motorcycles by mirror.
(R.C. § 4513.23)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2010-62, passed 9-15-10)
§ 74.29 WINDSHIELDS AND WIPERS.
   (A)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle on a street or highway in this
municipality, other than a motorcycle or motorized bicycle, that is not
equipped with a windshield.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle, other than a bus, with
any sign, poster, or other nontransparent material upon the front windshield,
sidewings, side, or rear windows of such vehicle other than a certificate or
other paper required to be displayed by law, except that there may be in the
lower left-hand or right-hand corner of the windshield a sign, poster, or decal
not to exceed four inches in height by six inches in width. No sign, poster, or
decal shall be displayed in the front windshield in such a manner as to conceal
the vehicle identification number for the motor vehicle when, in accordance
with federal law, that number is located inside the vehicle passenger
compartment and so placed as to be readable through the vehicle glazing without
moving any part of the vehicle.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
driving a passenger car with an electronic device, including an antenna,
electronic tolling or other transponder, camera, directional navigation device,
or other similar electronic device located in the front windshield if either of
the following apply to the device:
         (a)   It is a "vehicle safety technology" as defined in 49 C.F.R. §
393.5 and complies with 49 C.F.R. § 393.60(e)(1)(ii).
         (b)   It does not restrict the vehicle operator's sight lines to the
road and highway signs and signals, and it does not conceal the vehicle
identification number.
      (3)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
driving a commercial car with an electronic device, including an antenna,
electronic tolling or other transponder, camera, directional navigation device,
or other similar electronic device located in the front windshield if either of
the following apply to the device:
         (a)   It is a "vehicle safety technology" as defined in 49 C.F.R. §
393.5 and complies with 49 C.F.R. § 393.60(e)(1)(ii).
         (b)   It does not restrict the vehicle operator's sight lines to the
road and highway signs and signals, and it is mounted not more than 8.5 inches
below the upper edge of the windshield.
   (C)   The windshield on every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device
for cleaning rain, snow, or other moisture from the windshield. The device
shall be maintained in good working order and so constructed as to be
controlled or operated by the operator of the vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.24)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2010-62, passed 9-15-10)
§ 74.30 SOLID TIRE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every solid tire, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01, on a vehicle shall
have rubber or other resilient material on its entire traction surface at least
one inch thick above the edge of the flange of the entire periphery.
(R.C. § 4513.25)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.31 REQUIREMENTS FOR SAFETY GLASS IN MOTOR VEHICLES; USE OF TINTED GLASS OR
REFLECTORIZED MATERIAL.
   (A)   Safety glass.
      (1)   No person shall sell any new motor vehicle nor shall any new motor
vehicle be registered, and no person shall operate any motor vehicle, which is
registered in this state and which has been manufactured or assembled on or
after January 1, 1936, unless the motor vehicle is equipped with safety glass,
wherever glass is used in the windshields, doors, partitions, rear windows, and
windows on each side immediately adjacent to the rear window.
      (2)   SAFETY GLASS means any product composed of glass so manufactured,
fabricated, or treated as substantially to prevent shattering and flying of the
glass when it is struck or broken, or such other or similar product as may be
approved by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles.
      (3)   Glass other than safety glass shall not be offered for sale, or
sold for use in, or installed in any door, window, partition, or windshield
that is required by this section to be equipped with safety glass.
(R.C. § 4513.26)
   (B)   Tinted or reflectorized material.
      (1)   No person shall operate, on any highway or other public or private
property open to the public for vehicular travel or parking, lease, or rent any
motor vehicle that is registered in this state unless the motor vehicle
conforms to the requirements concerning tinted glass and reflectorized material
of R.C. § 4513.241 and of any applicable rule adopted under that section.
      (2)   No person shall install in or on any motor vehicle, any glass or
other material that fails to conform to the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or
of any rule adopted under that section.
      (3)   (a)   No used motor vehicle dealer or new motor vehicle dealer, as
defined in R.C. § 4517.01, shall sell any motor vehicle that fails to conform
to the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or of any rule adopted under that
section.
         (b)   No manufacturer, remanufacturer, or distributor, as defined in
R.C. § 4517.01, shall provide to a motor vehicle dealer licensed under R.C.
Chapter 4517 or to any other person, a motor vehicle that fails to conform to
the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or of any rule adopted under that section.
      (4)   No reflectorized materials shall be permitted upon or in any front
windshield, side windows, sidewings, or rear window.
      (5)   This division (B) does not apply to the manufacturer’s tinting or
glazing of motor vehicle windows or windshields that is otherwise in compliance
with or permitted by Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard #205.
      (6)   With regard to any side window behind a driver’s seat or any rear
window other than any window on an emergency door, this division (B) does not
apply to any school bus used to transport a child with disabilities pursuant to
R.C. Chapter 3323, whom it is impossible or impractical to transport by regular
school bus in the course of regular route transportation provided by a school
district. As used in this division, CHILD WITH DISABILITIES has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 3323.01.
      (7)   This division (B) does not apply to any school bus that is to be
sold and operated outside the municipality.
      (8)   (a)   This division (B) does not apply to a motor vehicle used by a
law enforcement agency under either of the following circumstances:
            1.   The vehicle does not have distinctive markings of a law
enforcement vehicle but is operated by or on behalf of the law enforcement
agency in an authorized investigation or other activity requiring that the
presence and identity of the vehicle occupants be undisclosed.
            2.   The vehicle primarily is used by the law enforcement canine
unit for transporting a police dog.
         (b)   As used in this division, LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY means a police
department, the office of a sheriff, the State Highway Patrol, a county
prosecuting attorney, or a federal, state, or local governmental body that
enforces criminal laws and that has employees who have a statutory power of
arrest.
(R.C. § 4513.241(C) - (J))
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(1), (B)(3)(b) or (B)(4) of this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(3)(a) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor if the dealer or the dealer’s agent knew of the nonconformity
at the time of sale.
      (4)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, except that an organization may not be
convicted unless the act of installation was authorized by the board of
directors, trustees, partners, or by a high managerial officer acting on behalf
of the organization, and installation was performed by an employee of the
organization acting within the scope of the person’s employment.
         (b)   In addition to any other penalty imposed under this section,
whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is liable in a civil action to
the owner of a motor vehicle on which was installed the nonconforming glass or
material for any damages incurred by that person as a result of the
installation of the nonconforming glass or material, costs of maintaining the
civil action, and attorney fees.
         (c)   In addition to any other penalty imposed under this section, if
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation
of division (B)(2) of this section and the offender is a motor vehicle repair
operator registered under R.C. Chapter 4775 or a motor vehicle dealer licensed
under R.C. Chapter 4517, whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is
subject to a registration or license suspension, as applicable, for a period of
not more than 180 days.
(R.C. § 4513.241(K))
Statutory reference:
   Administrative regulations, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-41
   Recording and reporting violations, certain court requirements, see R.C. §
4513.241(L)
§ 74.32 DIRECTIONAL SIGNALS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle manufactured or
assembled on or after January 1, 1954, unless the vehicle is equipped with
electrical or mechanical directional signals.
      (2)   No person shall operate any motorcycle or motor-driven cycle
manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1968, unless the vehicle is
equipped with electrical or mechanical directional signals.
   (B)   DIRECTIONAL SIGNALS means an electrical or mechanical signal device
capable of clearly indicating an intention to turn either to the right or to
the left and which shall be visible from both the front and rear.
   (C)   All mechanical signal devices shall be self-illuminating devices when
in use at the times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.261)
§ 74.33 INSTALLATION AND SALE OF SEAT SAFETY BELTS REQUIRED; DEFINITION.
   (A)   As used in this section and in R.C. § 4513.263 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the component parts of a SEAT SAFETY BELT
include a belt, anchor attachment assembly, and a buckle or closing device.
   (B)   No person shall sell, lease, rent, or operate any passenger car, as
defined in R.C. § 4501.01(E), that is registered or to be registered in this
state and that is manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1962, unless
the passenger car is equipped with sufficient anchorage units at the attachment
points for attaching at least two sets of seat safety belts to its front seat.
Such anchorage units at the attachment points shall be of such construction,
design, and strength to support a loop load pull of not less than 4,000 pounds
for each belt.
   (C)   No person shall sell, lease, or rent any passenger car, as defined in
R.C. § 4501.01(E), that is registered or to be registered in this state and
that is manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1966, unless the
passenger car has installed in its front seat at least two seat safety belt
assemblies.
   (D)   After January 1, 1966, neither any seat safety belt for use in a motor
vehicle nor any component part of any such seat safety belt shall be sold in
this municipality unless the seat safety belt or the component part satisfies
the minimum standard of specifications established by the society of automotive
engineers for automotive seat belts and unless the seat safety belt or
component part is labeled so as to indicate that it meets those minimum
standard specifications.
   (E)   Each sale, lease, or rental in violation of this section constitutes a
separate offense.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.262)
Statutory reference:
   Child restraint systems, administrative regulations, see O.A.C. Chapter
4501-37
§ 74.34 REQUIREMENTS FOR EXTRA SIGNAL EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No person shall operate any motor truck, bus, or commercial tractor
upon any highway at any time from sunset to sunrise unless there is carried in
such vehicle, except as provided in division (B) of this section, the following
equipment which shall be of the types approved by the Director of
Transportation.
      (1)   At least three flares or three red reflectors or three red electric
lanterns, each of which is capable of being seen and distinguished at a
distance of 500 feet under normal atmospheric conditions at nighttime;
      (2)   At least three red-burning fusees, unless red reflectors or red
electric lanterns are carried;
      (3)   At least two red cloth flags, not less than two inches square, with
standards to support them;
      (4)   The type of red reflectors shall comply with such standards and
specifications in effect on September 16, 1963, or later established by the
Interstate Commerce Commission and must be certified as meeting such standards
by Underwriters Laboratories.
   (B)   No person shall operate at the time and under the conditions stated in
this section any motor vehicle used in transporting flammable liquids in bulk,
or in transporting compressed flammable gases, unless there is carried in such
vehicle three red electric lanterns or three red reflectors meeting the
requirements stated in division (A) of this section. There shall not be carried
in any such vehicle any flare, fusee, or signal produced by a flame.
   (C)   This section does not apply to any person who operates any motor
vehicle in a work area designated by protection equipment devices that are
displayed and used in accordance with the manual adopted by the Department of
Transportation under R.C. § 4511.09.
(R.C. § 4513.27)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.35 DISPLAY OF WARNING DEVICES ON DISABLED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any motor truck, bus, commercial tractor, trailer,
semitrailer, or pole trailer is disabled upon any freeway, expressway, thruway
and connecting, entering, or exiting ramps within the municipality, at any time
when lighted lamps are required on vehicles, the operator of such vehicle shall
display the following warning devices upon the highway during the time the
vehicle is so disabled on the highway except as provided in division (B) of
this section:
      (1)   A lighted fusee shall be immediately placed on the roadway at the
traffic side of such vehicle, unless red electric lanterns or red reflectors
are displayed.
      (2)   Within the burning period of the fusee and as promptly as possible,
three lighted flares or pot torches, or three red reflectors or three red
electric lanterns shall be placed on the roadway as follows:
         (a)   One at a distance of 40 paces or approximately 100 feet in
advance of the vehicle;
         (b)   One at a distance of 40 paces or approximately 100 feet to the
rear of the vehicle, except as provided in this section, each in the center of
the lane of traffic occupied by the disabled vehicle;
         (c)   One at the traffic side of the vehicle.
   (B)   Whenever any vehicle used in transporting flammable liquids in bulk,
or in transporting compressed flammable gases, is disabled upon a highway at
any time or place mentioned in division (A) of this section, the driver of such
vehicle shall display upon the roadway the following warning devices:
      (1)   One red electric lantern or one red reflector shall be immediately
placed on the roadway at the traffic side of the vehicle;
      (2)   Two other red electric lanterns or two other red reflectors shall
be placed to the front and rear of the vehicle in the same manner prescribed
for flares in division (A) of this section.
   (C)   When a vehicle of a type specified in division (B) of this section is
disabled, the use of flares, fusees, or any signal produced by flame as warning
signals is prohibited.
   (D)   Whenever any vehicle of a type referred to in this section is disabled
upon any freeway, expressway, thruway, and connecting, entering, or exiting
ramps within the municipality, at any time when the display of fusees, flares,
red reflectors, or electric lanterns is not required, the operator of such
vehicle shall display two red flags upon the roadway in the lane of traffic
occupied by the disabled vehicle, one at a distance of 40 paces or
approximately 100 feet in advance of the vehicle, and one at a distance of 40
paces or approximately 100 feet to the rear of the vehicle, except as provided
in this section.
   (E)   The flares, fusees, lanterns, red reflectors, and flags to be
displayed as required in this section shall conform with the applicable
requirements of R.C. § 4513.27 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (F)   In the event the vehicle is disabled near a curve, crest of a hill, or
other obstruction of view, the flare, flag, reflector, or lantern in that
direction shall be placed as to afford ample warning to other users of the
highway, but in no case shall it be placed less than 40 paces or approximately
100 feet nor more than 120 paces or approximately 300 feet from the disabled
vehicle.
   (G)   This section does not apply to the operator of any vehicle in a work
area designated by protection equipment devices that are displayed and used in
accordance with the manual adopted by the Department of Transportation under
R.C. § 4511.09.
   (H)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.28)
§ 74.36 REQUIREMENTS FOR VEHICLES TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   Any person operating any vehicle transporting explosives upon a
highway shall at all times comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   The vehicle shall be marked or placarded on each side and on the
rear with the word “EXPLOSIVES” in letters not less than eight inches high, or
there shall be displayed on the rear of such vehicle a red flag not less than
24 inches square marked with the word “DANGER” in white letters six inches
high, or shall be marked or placarded in accordance with Section 177.823 of the
United States Department of Transportation regulations.
      (2)   The vehicle shall be equipped with not less than two fire
extinguishers, filled and ready for immediate use, and placed at convenient
points on such vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.29)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.37 STUDDED TIRES; SEASONAL USE PERMITTED.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, STUDDED TIRE means any tire designed
for use on a vehicle and equipped with metal studs or studs of wear-resisting
material that project beyond the tread of the traction surface of the tire.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, no person
shall operate any motor vehicle other than a public safety vehicle or school
bus that is equipped with studded tires on any street or highway in this
municipality, except during the period extending from the first day of November
of each year through the fifteenth day of April of the succeeding year.
      (2)   A person may operate a motor vehicle that is equipped with
retractable studded tires with the studs retracted at any time of the year, but
shall operate the motor vehicle with the studs extended only as provided in
division (B)(1) of this section.
   (C)   This section does not apply to the use of tire chains when there is
snow or ice on the streets or highways where such chains are being used, or the
immediate vicinity thereof.
(R.C. § 5589.081)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 5589.99(B))
§ 74.38 SAFETY INSPECTION DECALS FOR BUSES.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      BUS.
         (a)   BUS means any vehicle used for the transportation of passengers
that meets at least one of the following:
            1.   Was originally designed by the manufacturer to transport more
than 15 passengers, including the driver;
            2.   Either the gross vehicle weight rating or the gross vehicle
weight exceeds 10,000 pounds.
         (b)   BUS does not include a church bus as defined in R.C. § 4503.07
or a school bus unless the church bus or school bus is used in the
transportation of passengers by a motor carrier.
         (c)   BUS also does not include any of the following:
            1.   Any vehicle operated exclusively on a rail or rails;
            2.   A trolley bus operated by electric power derived from a fixed
overhead wire furnishing local passenger transportation similar to street-
railway service;
            3.   Vehicles owned or leased by government agencies or political
subdivisions.
      MOTOR CARRIER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4923.01.
(R.C. § 4513.50)
   (B)   Safety inspection decals.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, on and after
July 1, 2001, no person shall operate a bus, nor shall any person being the
owner of a bus or having supervisory responsibility for a bus, permit the
operation of any bus unless the bus displays a valid, current safety inspection
decal issued by the State Highway Patrol under R.C. § 4513.52.
      (2)   For the purpose of complying with the requirements of this section
and R.C. § 4513.52, the owner or other operator of a bus may drive the bus
directly to an inspection site conducted by the State Highway Patrol and
directly back to the person’s place of business without a valid registration
and without displaying a safety inspection decal, provided that no passengers
may occupy the bus during such operation.
(R.C. § 4513.51(A), (B))
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4513.51(D))
§ 74.39 AIR BAGS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      AIR BAG. Has the same meaning as in 49 C.F.R. § 579.4, as amended.
      COUNTERFEIT AIR BAG. An air bag displaying a mark identical or similar to
the genuine mark of a motor vehicle manufacturer, without the authorization of
the motor vehicle manufacturer.
      NONFUNCTIONAL AIR BAG. Any of the following:
         (a)   A replacement air bag that has been previously deployed or
damaged;
         (b)   A replacement air bag that has an electrical fault that is
detected by the air bag diagnostic system of a vehicle after the air bag is
installed;
         (c)   A counterfeit air bag, air bag cover, or some other object that
is installed in a vehicle to deceive an owner or operator of the vehicle into
believing that a functional air bag has been installed.
   (B)   No person shall install or reinstall in any motor vehicle a
counterfeit or nonfunctional air bag or any object intended to fulfill the
function of an air bag other than an air bag that was designed in conformance
with or that is regulated by Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 208
for the make, model, and model year of the vehicle, knowing that the object is
not in accordance with that standard.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly manufacture, import, sell, or offer for sale
any of the following:
      (1)   A counterfeit air bag;
      (2)   A nonfunctional air bag;
      (3)   Any other object that is intended to be installed in a motor
vehicle to fulfill the function of an air bag and that is not in conformance
with Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 208 for the make, model, and
model year of the vehicle in which the object is intended to be installed.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly sell, install, or reinstall a device in a
motor vehicle that causes the diagnostic system of a vehicle to inaccurately
indicate that the vehicle is equipped with a functional air bag.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) or (D) of this section is guilty
of improper replacement of a motor vehicle air bag, a misdemeanor of the first
degree on a first offense. On each subsequent offense, or if the violation
results in serious physical harm to an individual, the person is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Each manufacture, importation, installation, reinstallation, sale,
or offer for sale in violation of this section shall constitute a separate and
distinct violation.
(R.C. § 4549.20)
LOADS
§ 74.50 PERMIT REQUIRED TO EXCEED LOAD LIMITS.
   (A)   (1)   The municipality, with respect to highways under their
jurisdiction, upon application in writing, shall issue a special regional heavy
hauling permit authorizing the applicant to operate or move a vehicle or
combination of vehicles as follows:
         (a)   At a size or weight of vehicle or load exceeding the maximum
specified in R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or otherwise not in conformity with
R.C. §§ 4513.01 to 4513.37.
         (b)   Upon any highway under the jurisdiction of municipality except
those highways with a condition insufficient to bear the weight of the vehicle
or combination of vehicles as stated in the application.
         (c)   Issuance of a special regional heavy hauling permit is subject
to the payment of a fee established by the municipality in accordance with this
section.
      (2)   In circumstances where a person is not eligible to receive a permit
under division (A)(1) of this section, the municipality, with respect to
highways under its jurisdiction, upon application in writing and for good cause
shown, may issue a special permit in writing authorizing the applicant to
operate or move a vehicle or combination of vehicles of a size or weight of
vehicle or load exceeding the maximum specified in R.C. §§ 5577.01 through
5577.09, or otherwise not in conformity with R.C. §§ 4513.01 through 4513.37,
upon any highway under its jurisdiction.
   (B)   (1)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 715.22 and 723.01, the holder of a
permit issued by the Ohio Director of Transportation under R.C. § 4513.34 may
move the vehicle or combination of vehicles described in the permit on any
highway that is a part of the state highway system when the movement is partly
within and partly without the corporate limits of the municipality. No local
authority shall require any other permit or license or charge any license fee
or other charge against the holder of a permit for the movement of a vehicle or
combination of vehicles on any highway which is a part of the state highway
system. The Ohio Director of Transportation shall not require the holder of a
permit issued by the municipality to obtain a special permit for the movement
of vehicles or combination of vehicles on highways within the jurisdiction of
the municipality.
      (2)   Except as provided in R.C. § 4513.34(B)(3), permits may be issued
for any period of time not to exceed one year, as the local authority in its
discretion determines advisable or for the duration of any public construction
project.
   (C)   (1)   The application for a permit issued under this section shall be
in the form that the municipality prescribes. The municipality may prescribe a
permit fee to be imposed and collected when any permit described in this
section is issued. The permit fee may be in an amount sufficient to reimburse
the municipality for the administrative costs incurred in issuing the permit,
and also to cover the cost of normal and expected damage caused to the roadway
or a street or highway structure as the result of the operation of the
nonconforming vehicle or combination of vehicles.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section and of rules adopted by the
Director under R.C. § 4513.34, milk transported in bulk by vehicle is deemed a
nondivisible load.
      (3)   For purposes of this section and of rules adopted by the Director
under R.C. § 4513.34, three or fewer aluminum coils, transported by a vehicle,
are deemed a nondivisible load. The Director shall adopt rules establishing
requirements for an aluminum coil permit that are substantially similar to the
requirements for a steel coil permit under O.A.C. Chapter 5501:2-1.
   (D)   The municipality shall issue a special regional heavy hauling permit
under division (A)(1) of this section upon application and payment of the
applicable fee. However, the municipality may issue or withhold a special
permit specified in division (A)(2) of this section. If a permit is to be
issued, the municipality may limit or prescribe conditions of operation for the
vehicle and may require the posting of a bond or other security conditioned
upon the sufficiency of the permit fee to compensate for damage caused to the
roadway or a street or highway structure. In addition, the municipality, as a
condition of issuance of an overweight permit, may require the applicant to
develop and enter into a mutual agreement with the municipality to compensate
for or to repair excess damage caused to the roadway by travel under the
permit.
   (E)   Every permit issued under this section shall be carried in the vehicle
or combination of vehicles to which it refers and shall be open to inspection
by any police officer or authorized agent of any authority granting the permit.
No person shall violate any of the terms of a permit.
   (F)   The Director of Transportation may debar an applicant from applying
for a special permit under this section upon a finding based on a reasonable
belief that the applicant has done any of the actions specified in R.C. §
4513.34(F).
   (G)   Notice and procedures for debarment shall be as provided in R.C. §
4513.34(G).
   (H)   (1)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to gross load limits.
      (2)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to axle load by more than 2,000 pounds per axle or group of
axles.
      (3)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to an approved route except upon order of a law enforcement
officer or authorized agent of the issuing authority.
   (I)   A permit issued by the municipality under this section for the
operation of a vehicle or combination of vehicles is valid for the purposes of
the vehicle operation in accordance with the conditions and limitations
specified on the permit. Such a permit is voidable by law enforcement only for
operation of a vehicle or combination of vehicles in violation of the weight,
dimension, or route provisions of the permit. However, a permit is not voidable
for operation in violation of a route provision of a permit if the operation is
upon the order of a law enforcement officer.
(R.C. § 4513.34)
   (J)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
Statutory reference:
   Overweight or oversized vehicles, state permit regulations, see O.A.C.
Chapter 5501:2-1
§ 74.51 LIMITATION OF LOAD EXTENSION ON LEFT SIDE OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   No passenger-type vehicle shall be operated on a highway with any load
carried on the vehicle which extends more than six inches beyond the line of
the fenders on the vehicle’s left side.
(R.C. § 4513.30)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.52 ALL LOADS SHALL BE PROPERLY SECURED.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any highway unless the vehicle
is so constructed, loaded, or covered as to prevent any of its load from
dropping, sifting, leaking, or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand
or other substances may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or
water or other substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or
maintaining the roadway.   
   (B)   Except for a farm vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or
agricultural production materials or a rubbish vehicle in the process of
acquiring its load, no vehicle loaded with garbage, swill, cans, bottles, waste
paper, ashes, refuse, trash, rubbish, waste, wire, paper, cartons, boxes,
glass, solid waste, or any other material of an unsanitary nature that is
susceptible to blowing or bouncing from a moving vehicle shall be driven or
moved on any highway unless the load is covered with a sufficient cover to
prevent the load or any part of the load from spilling onto the highway.
(R.C. § 4513.31)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.53 TOWING REQUIREMENTS; EXCEPTION TO SIZE AND WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   When one vehicle is towing another vehicle, the drawbar or other
connection shall be of sufficient strength to pull all the weight towed
thereby, and the drawbar or other connection shall not exceed 15 feet from one
vehicle to the other, except the connection between any two vehicles
transporting poles, pipe, machinery, or other objects of structural nature
which cannot readily be dismembered.
      (2)   When one vehicle is towing another and the connection consists only
of a chain, rope, or cable, there shall be displayed upon such connection a
white flag or cloth not less than 12 inches square.
      (3)   In addition to such drawbar or other connection, each trailer and
each semitrailer which is not connected to a commercial tractor by means of a
fifth wheel shall be coupled with stay chains or cables to the vehicle by which
it is being drawn. These chains or cables shall be of sufficient size and
strength to prevent the towed vehicle’s parting from the drawing vehicle in
case the drawbar or other connection should break or become disengaged. In case
of a loaded pole trailer, the connecting pole to the drawing vehicle shall be
coupled to the drawing vehicle with stay chains or cables of sufficient size
and strength to prevent the towed vehicle’s parting from the drawing vehicle.
      (4)   Every trailer or semitrailer, except pole and cable trailers and
pole and cable dollies operated by a public utility as defined in R.C. §
5727.01, shall be equipped with a coupling device which shall be so designed
and constructed that the trailer will follow substantially in the path of the
vehicle drawing it, without whipping or swerving from side to side. Vehicles
used to transport agricultural produce or agricultural production materials
between a local place of storage and supply and the farm, when drawn or towed
on a street or highway at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less, and vehicles
designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage
and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or
highway for a distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 miles per
hour or less, shall have a drawbar or other connection, including the hitch
mounted on the towing vehicle, which shall be of sufficient strength to pull
all the weight towed thereby. Only one such vehicle used to transport
agricultural produce or agricultural production materials as provided in this
section may be towed or drawn at one time except as follows:
         (a)   An agricultural tractor may tow or draw more than one such
vehicle;
         (b)   A pickup truck or straight truck designed by the manufacturer to
carry a load of not less than one-half ton and not more than two tons may tow
or draw not more than two such vehicles that are being used to transport
agricultural produce from the farm to a local place of storage. No vehicle
being so towed by such a pickup truck or straight truck shall be considered to
be a motor vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.32)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
   (C)   Exception to size and weight restrictions.
      (1)   The size and weight provisions of this chapter and R.C. Chapter
5577 do not apply to a any of the following:
         (a)   A person who is engaged in the initial towing or removal of a
wrecked or disabled motor vehicle from the site of an emergency on a public
highway where the vehicle became wrecked or disabled to the nearest site where
the vehicle can be brought into conformance with the requirements of this
chapter and R.C. Chapter 5577, to the nearest storage facility, or to the
nearest qualified repair facility;
         (b)   A person who is en route to the site of an emergency on a public
highway to remove a wrecked or disabled motor vehicle;
         (c)   A person who is returning from delivering a wrecked or disabled
motor vehicle to a site, storage facility, or repair facility as specified in
division (C)(1)(a) of this section.
      (2)   Any subsequent towing of a wrecked or disabled vehicle shall comply
with the size and weight provisions of this chapter and R.C. Chapter 5577.
      (3)   No court shall impose any penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99 or
the civil liability established in R.C. § 5577.12 upon a person who is
operating a vehicle in the manner described in division (C)(1) of this section.
(R.C. § 5577.15)
§ 74.54 LOAD LIMITS; LOAD LIMITS ON LOCAL STREETS.
   (A)   Weight of load; width of tire. No person, firm or corporation shall
transport over the improved public streets, alleys, intercounty highways, state
highways, bridges or culverts in this municipality, in any vehicle propelled by
muscular, motor or other power, any burden, including weight of vehicle and
load, greater than the following:
      (1)   (a)   In vehicles having metal tires three inches or less in width,
a load of 500 pounds for each inch of the total width of the tire on all
wheels;
         (b)   When the tires on such vehicles exceed three inches in width, an
additional load of 800 pounds shall be permitted for each inch by which the
total width of the tires on all wheels exceeds 12 inches.
      (2)   In vehicles having tires of rubber or other similar substance, for
each inch of the total width of tires on all wheels, as follows:
 
Tire Width  Load Limit
(in inches) (in pounds)
3           450
3 1/2       450
4           500
5           600
6 and over  650
 
      (3)   The total width of tires on all wheels shall be, in the case of
solid tires of rubber or other similar substance, the actual width in inches of
all such tires between the flanges at the base of the tires, but in no event
shall that portion of tire coming in contact with the road surface be less than
two-thirds the width so measured between the flanges.
      (4)   In the case of pneumatic tires, of rubber or other similar
substance, the total width of tires on all wheels shall be the actual width of
all such tires, measured at the widest portion thereof when inflated and not
bearing a load.
      (5)   In no event shall the load, including the proportionate weight of
vehicle that can be concentrated on any wheel, exceed 650 pounds to each inch
in width of the tread as defined in this division (A) for solid tires, or each
inch in the actual diameter of pneumatic tires measured when inflated and not
bearing a load.
(R.C. § 5577.03)
   (B)   Vehicles with pneumatic tires, load limits.
      (1)   The maximum wheel load of any one wheel of any vehicle, load,
object or structure operated or moved upon improved public highways, streets,
bridges or culverts shall not exceed 650 pounds per inch width of pneumatic
tire, measured as prescribed by division (A) of this section.
      (2)   The weight of the vehicle and load imposed upon a road surface that
is part of the interstate system by vehicles with pneumatic tires shall not
exceed any of the following weight limitations:
         (a)   On any one axle, 20,000 pounds;
         (b)   On any tandem axle, 34,000 pounds;
         (c)   On any two or more consecutive axles, the maximum weight as
determined by application of the formula provided in division (B)(3) of this
section.
      (3)   (a)   For purposes of division (B)(2)(c) of this section, the
maximum gross weight on any two or more consecutive axles shall be determined
by application of the following formula:
            W = 500[(LN/–1) + 12N + 36]
         (b)   In this formula, W equals the overall gross weight on any group
of two or more consecutive axles to the nearest 500 pounds, L equals the
distance in rounded whole feet between the extreme of any group of two or more
consecutive axles, and N equals the number of axles in the group under
consideration. However, two consecutive sets of tandem axles may carry a gross
load of 34,000 pounds each, provided the overall distance between the first and
last axles of such consecutive sets of tandem axles is 36 feet or more.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (B)(9) of this section, the weight
of vehicle and load imposed upon a road surface that is not part of the
interstate system by vehicles with pneumatic tires shall not exceed any of the
following weight limitations:
         (a)   On any one axle, 20,000 pounds.
         (b)   On any two successive axles:
            1.   Spaced four feet or less apart, and weighed simultaneously,
24,000 pounds;
            2.   Spaced more than four feet apart, and weighed simultaneously,
34,000 pounds, plus 1,000 pounds per foot or fraction thereof, over four feet,
not to exceed 40,000 pounds.
         (c)   On any three successive load-bearing axles designed to equalize
the load between such axles and spaced so that each such axle of the three-axle
group is more than four feet from the next axle in the three-axle group and so
that the spacing between the first axle and the third axle in the three-axle
group is no more than nine feet, and with such load-bearing three-axle group
weighed simultaneously as a unit:
            1.   48,000 pounds, with the total weight of the vehicle and load
not exceeding 38,000 pounds plus an additional 900 pounds for each foot of
spacing between the front axle and the rearmost axle of the vehicle;
            2.   As an alternative to division (B)(4)(c)1. of this section,
42,500 pounds, if part of a six-axle vehicle combination with at least 20 feet
of spacing between the front axle and rearmost axle, with the total weight of
the vehicle and load not exceeding 54,000 pounds plus an additional 600 pounds
per each foot of spacing between the front axle and the rearmost axle of the
vehicle.
         (d)   The total weight of the vehicle and load utilizing any
combination of axles, other than as provided for three-axle groups in division
(B)(4) of this section, shall not exceed 38,000 pounds plus an additional 900
pounds for each foot of spacing between the front axle and the rearmost axle of
the vehicle.
      (5)   Notwithstanding divisions (B)(2) and (B)(4) of this section, the
maximum overall gross weight of a vehicle and load imposed upon the road
surface shall not exceed 80,000 pounds.
      (6)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, when a vehicle is
towing another vehicle, such drawbar or other connection shall be of a length
such as will limit the spacing between nearest axles of the respective vehicles
to a distance not in excess of 12½ feet.
      (7)   As used in division (B)(2) of this section, TANDEM AXLE means two
or more consecutive axles whose centers may be included between parallel
transverse vertical planes spaced more than 40 inches but not more than 96
inches apart, extending across the full width of the vehicle.
      (8)   This division (B) does not apply to passenger bus type vehicles
operated by a regional transit authority pursuant to R.C. §§ 306.30 through
306.54.
      (9)   Either division (B)(2) or (B)(4) of this section applies to the
weight of a vehicle and its load imposed upon any road surface that is not a
part of the interstate system by vehicles with pneumatic tires. As between
divisions (B)(2) and (B)(4) of this section, only the division that yields the
highest total gross vehicle weight limit shall be applied to any such vehicle.
Once that division has been determined, only the limits contained in the
subdivisions of that division shall apply to that vehicle.
(R.C. § 5577.04)
   (C)   Axle and wheel load, gross weights and towing connection length for
solid rubber tires.
      (1)   No vehicle, load, object or structure having a maximum axle load
greater than 16,000 pounds when such vehicle is equipped with solid rubber
tires shall be operated or moved upon the improved public highways, streets,
bridges or culverts. The maximum wheel load of any one wheel of such vehicle
shall not exceed 650 pounds per inch width of tire, measured as prescribed by
division (A) of this section, nor shall any solid tire or rubber or other
resilient material, on any wheel of any such vehicle, be less than one inch
thick when measure from the top of the flanges of the tire channel.
      (2)   The weight of vehicle and load imposed upon the road surface by any
two successive axles, spaces four feet or less apart, shall not exceed 19,000
pounds for solid tires; or by any two successive axles spaced more than four
feet but less than eight feet apart, shall not exceed 24,000 pounds for solid
tires; or by any two successive axles, spaced eight feet or more apart, shall
not exceed 28,000 pounds for solid tires; nor shall the total weight of vehicle
and load exceed, for solid rubber tires, 28,000 pounds plus an additional 600
pounds for each foot or fraction thereof of spacing between the front axle and
the rear-most axle of the vehicle; nor shall the weight of the vehicle and load
imposed upon the road surface by any vehicle equipped with solid rubber tires
exceed 80% of the permissible weight of vehicle and load as provided for
pneumatic tires.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, when a vehicle is
towing another vehicle, such drawbar or other connection shall be of a length
such as will limit the spacing between the nearest axles of the respective
vehicles to a distance not in excess of 12½ feet. If the provisions of this
division (C) are held to exceed the weight limitations or other provisions set
forth in the “Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1958,” 72 Stat. 902, 23 U.S.C. § 127,
this division (C) shall become null and void to the extent of such
inconsistency.
(R.C. § 5577.041)
   (D)   Load limits on local streets. No person shall operate a vehicle
exceeding a size as specified in §
74.50 or exceeding a gross weight of five tons, upon any street in the
municipality other than state routes and county roads, except those local
streets designated as a truck route and marked as such by appropriate traffic
signs, and except when such operation is necessary to load or unload property,
to go to or from the usual place of storage of such vehicle or to perform any
other legitimate business or act other than passage through the municipality.
Operators of vehicles so deviating from either a state route or a designated
truck route within the municipality shall confine such deviation to that
required in order to accomplish the purpose of the departure. On county roads,
Council or other duly designated local authority shall establish reasonable
weight limits commensurate with the construction and material specifications
for such roads and the load resistance of such roads as determined by the
County Engineer. County roads shall be posted with signs indicating such weight
limits.
(Ord. 8, passed 2-2-00)
   (E)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second or subsequent offense, such person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 5577.99(C))
      (2)   Whoever violates the weight provisions of this section shall be
punished as set forth in R.C. § 5577.99(A).
   (F)   Modification of load limits. The load limits established in this
section may be modified or waived upon special permission granted as provided
in R.C. § 4513.34 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
CHAPTER 75: BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES, AND OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
Section
   
75.01   Bicycles; application of Title VII
   
75.02   Operation of motorized bicycle
   
75.03   Rules for bicycles, motorcycles, and snowmobiles
   
75.04   Prohibition against attaching bicycles and sleds to vehicles
   
75.05   Riding bicycles; motorcycles abreast
   
75.06   Equipment of bicycles
   
75.07   Operation of all-terrain vehicles and motorized dirt bikes
   
75.08   Operation of snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles and all-purpose
vehicles
   
75.09   Electric bicycles
Statutory reference:
   Bicycle regulations to be consistent with state law, see R.C. § 4511.07(A)
(8)
   Protective eye devices required for motorcycle operators and passengers;
helmets required for persons under 18 years of age, see O.A.C. § 4501-17-01
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 75.01 BICYCLES; APPLICATION OF TITLE VII.
   (A)   The provisions of this title that are applicable to bicycles and
electric bicycles apply whenever a bicycle or electric bicycle is operated upon
any highway or upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, a bicycle operator
or electric bicycle operator who violates any provisions of this title
described in division (A) of this section that is applicable to bicycles or
electric bicycles may be issued a ticket, citation, or summons by a law
enforcement officer for the violation in the same manner as the operator of a
motor vehicle would be cited for the same violation. A person who commits any
such violation while operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall not have any
points assessed against the person’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, or probationary license under R.C. §
4510.036.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, in the case of a
violation of any provision of this title described in division (A) of this
section by a bicycle operator, electric bicycle operator, or motor vehicle
operator when the trier of fact finds that the violation by the motor vehicle
operator endangered the lives of bicycle riders or electric bicycle riders at
the time of the violation, the court, notwithstanding any provision of the Ohio
Revised Code to the contrary, may require the bicycle operator, electric
bicycle operator, or motor vehicle operator to take and successfully complete a
bicycling skills course approved by the court in addition to or in lieu of any
penalty otherwise prescribed by this Traffic Code or the Ohio Revised Code for
that violation.
   (D)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to violations of
R.C. § 4511.19, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 4511.52)
§ 75.02 OPERATION OF MOTORIZED BICYCLE.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motorized bicycle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking, unless all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The person is 14 or 15 years of age and holds a valid probationary
motorized bicycle license issued after the person has passed the test provided
for in this section, or the person is 16 years of age or older and holds either
a valid commercial driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4506 or a
driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid motorized bicycle
license issued after the person has passed the test provided for in this
section, except that if a person is 16 years of age, has a valid probationary
motorized bicycle license and desires a motorized bicycle license, the person
is not required to comply with the testing requirements provided for in this
section.
      (2)   The motorized bicycle is equipped in accordance with the rules
adopted under division (B) of this section and is in proper working order.
      (3)   The person, if under 18 years of age, is wearing a protective
helmet on the person’s head with the chin strap properly fastened and the
motorized bicycle is equipped with a rearview mirror.
      (4)   The person operates the motorized bicycle when practicable within
three feet of the right edge of the roadway obeying all traffic rules
applicable to vehicles.
   (B)   The Director of Public Safety, subject to R.C. Chapter 119, shall
adopt and promulgate rules concerning protective helmets, the equipment of
motorized bicycles, and the testing and qualifications of persons who do not
hold a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license. The test shall be as near
as practicable to the examination required for a motorcycle operator’s
endorsement under R.C. § 4507.11. The test shall also require the operator to
give an actual demonstration of the operator’s ability to operate and control a
motorized bicycle by driving one under the supervision of an examining officer.
   (C)   Every motorized bicycle license expires on the birthday of the
applicant in the fourth or eighth year after the date it is issued, based on
the period of renewal requested by the applicant. No motorized bicycle license
shall be issued for a period longer than eight years. A person who is 65 years
of age or older may only apply for a motorized bicycle license that expires on
the birthday of the applicant in the fourth year after the date it is issued.
   (D)   No person operating a motorized bicycle shall carry another person
upon the motorized bicycle.
   (E)   The protective helmet and rearview mirror required by division (A)(3)
of this section shall, on and after January 1, 1985, conform with rules adopted
by the Director under division (B) of this section.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (A), (D), or (E) of this section is guilty
of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.521)
Statutory reference:
   Suspension of probationary motorized bicycle license by the state, see R.C.
§ 4510.34
§ 75.03 RULES FOR BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES, AND SNOWMOBILES.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, SNOWMOBILE has the same meaning as given
that term in R.C. § 4519.01.
   (B)   (1)   No person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall ride
other than upon or astride the permanent and regular seat attached thereto or
carry any other person upon such bicycle or electric bicycle other than upon a
firmly attached and regular seat thereon, and no person shall ride upon a
bicycle or electric bicycle other than upon such a firmly attached and regular
seat.
      (2)   No person operating a motorcycle shall ride other than upon or
astride the permanent and regular seat or saddle attached thereto, or carry any
other person upon such motorcycle other than upon a firmly attached and regular
seat or saddle thereon, and no person shall ride upon a motorcycle other than
upon such a firmly attached and regular seat or saddle.
      (3)   No person shall ride upon a motorcycle that is equipped with a
saddle other than while sitting astride the saddle, facing forward, with one
leg on each side of the motorcycle.
      (4)   No person shall ride upon a motorcycle that is equipped with a seat
other than while sitting upon the seat.
      (5)   No person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall carry any
package, bundle, or article that prevents the driver from keeping at least one
hand upon the handlebars.
      (6)   No bicycle or electric bicycle or motorcycle shall be used to carry
more persons at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
No motorcycle shall be operated on a highway when the handlebars rise higher
than the shoulders of the operator when the operator is seated in the
operator’s seat or saddle.
   (C)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(3) of this section, no person
shall operate or be a passenger on a snowmobile or motorcycle without using
safety glasses or other protective eye device. Except as provided in division
(C)(3) of this section, no person who is under the age of 18 years, or who
holds a motorcycle operator’s endorsement or license bearing a “novice”
designation that is currently in effect as provided in R.C. § 4507.13, shall
operate a motorcycle on a highway, or be a passenger on a motorcycle, unless
wearing a protective helmet on the person’s head, and no other person shall be
a passenger on a motorcycle operated by such a person unless similarly wearing
a protective helmet. The helmet, safety glasses, or other protective eye device
shall conform with rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety. The
provisions of this paragraph or a violation thereof shall not be used in the
trial of any civil action.
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(3) of this section, no
person shall operate a motorcycle with a valid temporary instruction permit and
temporary instruction permit identification card issued by the Registrar of
Motor Vehicles pursuant to R.C. § 4507.05 unless the person, at the time of
such operation, is wearing on the person’s head a protective helmet that
conforms with rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety.
         (b)   No person shall operate a motorcycle with a valid temporary
instruction permit and temporary instruction permit identification card issued
by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles pursuant to R.C. § 4507.05 in any of the
following circumstances:
            1.   At any time when lighted lights are required by R.C. § 4513.03
(A)(1);
            2.   While carrying a passenger;
            3.   On any limited access highway.
      (3)   Divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2)(a) of this section do not apply to a
person who operates or is a passenger in an autocycle or cab-enclosed
motorcycle when the occupant compartment top is in place enclosing the
occupants.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting the carrying
of a child in a seat or trailer that is designed for carrying children and is
firmly attached to the bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (B) or (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates division (B) or (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates division (B) or (C)(1) or
(C)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.53)
§ 75.04 PROHIBITION AGAINST ATTACHING BICYCLES AND SLEDS TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person riding upon any bicycle, electric bicycle, coaster,
roller skates, sled, skateboard, or toy vehicle shall attach the same or self
to any vehicle upon a roadway.
      (2)   No operator shall knowingly permit any person riding upon any
bicycle, electric bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, skateboard, or toy
vehicle to attach the same or self to any vehicle while it is moving upon a
roadway.
      (3)   This section does not apply to towing a disabled vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.54)
§ 75.05 RIDING BICYCLES; MOTORCYCLES ABREAST.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle upon a roadway
shall ride as near to the right side of the roadway as practicable obeying all
traffic rules applicable to vehicles and exercising due care when passing a
standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Persons riding bicycles, electric bicycles, or motorcycles upon a
roadway shall ride not more than two abreast in a single lane, except on paths
or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, electric
bicycles, or motorcycles.
   (C)   This section does not require a person operating a bicycle or electric
bicycle to ride at the edge of the roadway when it is unreasonable or unsafe to
do so. Conditions that may require riding away from the edge of the roadway
include when necessary to avoid fixed or moving objects, parked or moving
vehicles, surface hazards, or if it otherwise is unsafe or impracticable to do
so, including if the lane is too narrow for the bicycle or electric bicycle and
an overtaking vehicle to travel safely side by side within the lane.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.55)
§ 75.06 EQUIPMENT OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   Every bicycle or electric bicycle when in use at the times specified
in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance shall be
equipped with the following:
      (1)   A lamp mounted on the front of either the bicycle or electric
bicycle or the operator that shall emit a white light visible from a distance
of at least 500 feet to the front and 300 feet to the sides. A generator-
powered lamp that emits light only when the bicycle or electric bicycle is
moving may be used to meet this requirement.
      (2)   A red reflector on the rear that shall be visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet to the rear when directly in front of
lawful lower beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle;
      (3)   A lamp emitting either flashing or steady red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear shall be used in addition to the red
reflector. If the red lamp performs as a reflector in that it is visible as
specified in division (A)(2) of this section, the red lamp may serve as the
reflector and a separate reflector is not required.
   (B)   Additional lamps and reflectors may be used in addition to those
required under division (A) of this section, except that red lamps and red
reflectors shall not be used on the front of the bicycle or electric bicycle
and white lamps and white reflectors shall not be used on the rear of the
bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (C)   A bicycle or electric bicycle may be equipped with a device capable of
giving an audible signal, except that a bicycle or electric bicycle shall not
be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a bicycle or electric bicycle
any siren or whistle.
   (D)   Every bicycle or electric bicycle shall be equipped with an adequate
brake when used on a street or highway.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.56)
§ 75.07 OPERATION OF ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES AND MOTORIZED DIRT BIKES.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to regulate the
recreational use of all-terrain vehicles and motorized dirt bikes in the
village.
   (B)   Definitions. Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, the
following words, combinations of words, terms, and phrases used in this section
have the meanings set forth below:
      ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE or ATV. A motorized flotation-tired vehicle of not
less than three low pressure tires, but not more than eight tires, that is
limited in engine displacement of less than 800 cubic centimeters and total dry
weight less than 900 pounds.
      MOTORIZED DIRT BIKE. A vehicle traveling on two wheels and capable of
cross-country travel on natural terrain without benefit of a road or trail.
      OFF HIGHWAY VEHICLE.  Both an all-terrain vehicle or ATV and a motorized
dirt bike as defined herein or either of them.
   (C)   Use of off highway vehicles. An off highway vehicle may be
recreationally used within the village but only on the condition that the
operator adheres to the following:
      (1)   No off highway vehicle may be recreationally used within the
village within 100 feet from any dwelling unit.
      (2)   No more than two persons who are not residents of any particular
lot may simultaneously recreationally use off highway vehicles on that lot. It
is the responsibility of the owner(s) of that lot to enforce this restriction,
and the owner(s) of that lot shall, in addition to the individuals using the
off highway vehicles, be liable for any violation of this section.
      (3)   An off highway vehicle may be recreationally operated within the
village only during the following hours: 9:00 a.m. through 11:00 a.m., 1:00
p.m. through 4:00 p.m. and 6:00 p.m. through 8:00 p.m.
      (4)   No person shall recreationally operate an off highway vehicle on
any lot unless that person is the owner of said lot or has the consent of the
owner to operate the off highway vehicle on that lot.
      (5)   No person shall operate an off highway vehicle on any real property
owned or leased by the village, including, but not limited to, any real
property owned or leased by the village for use as a recreational park, without
the express written permission of the Mayor, said permission being limited to
maintaining or “dragging” a softball or baseball field located on village
property.
   (D)   Exemptions. The following use is exempt from this section:
      (1)   The use of any off highway vehicle by an officer, employee, or
agent of the city village or of any other governmental unit in the course of
official governmental business.
      (2)   This section shall apply only to the recreational use of off
highway vehicles and shall not limit the use of off highway vehicles for snow
plowing, towing, agricultural, commercial or emergency use.
   (E)   Penalty. Any person, firm, corporation, or association which violates
any provision of this Ordinance shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor for the
first offense punishable by a maximum fine of $150, a fourth degree misdemeanor
for the second offense punishable by a maximum fine of $250 or 30 days in jail,
or both, and a third degree misdemeanor for any subsequent offense punishable
by a maximum fine of $500 or 60 days in jail, or both.
(Ord. 42, passed 7-2-07; Am. Ord. 45, passed 8-2-07; Am. Ord. 54, passed 6-18-
08)
§ 75.08 OPERATION OF SNOWMOBILES, OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLES AND ALL-PURPOSE
VEHICLES.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to regulate the use of
snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, utility vehicles and all-purpose vehicles
on public roadways in the village.
   (B)   Definitions. Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, the
following words, combinations of words, terms, and phrases used in this section
have the meanings set forth below:
      (1)   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES or ATV and ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLE or APV. A self-
propelled vehicle designed primarily for cross-country travel on land and
water, or on more than one type of terrain, and steered by wheels or
caterpillar treads, or any combination thereof, including vehicles that operate
on a cushion of air, vehicles commonly known as all-terrain vehicles, all-
season vehicles, mini-bikes and trail bikes, including but not limited to that
which is operated by way of flotation-tired vehicle of not less than three or
more than eight low pressure tires.
      (2)   MOTORIZED DIRT BIKE. A vehicle traveling on two wheels and capable
of cross-country travel on natural terrain without the benefit of a road or
trail.
      (3)   SNOWMOBILE. Any self-propelled vehicle designed primarily for use
on snow or ice, and steered by skis, runners or caterpillar treads.
      (4)   UTILITY VEHICLE. A self-propelled vehicle designed with a bed,
principally for the purpose of transporting material or cargo in connection
with construction, agriculture, forestry, grounds maintenance, lawn and garden,
material handling, or similar activities. UTILITY VEHICLES includes a vehicle
with a maximum attainable speed of 20 miles per hour or less.
   (C)   Permitted operation. Snowmobiles, all-terrain vehicles, all-purpose
vehicles, motorized dirt bikes and utility vehicles may be operated only as
follows:
      (1)   To make a crossing of a highway, other than a freeway or limited
access highway, whenever the crossing can be made in safety and will not
interfere with the movement of vehicular traffic approaching from any direction
on the highway, and provided that the operator yields the right-of-way to any
approaching traffic that presents an immediate hazard;
      (2)   Off and alongside a street or highway for limited distances from
the point of unloading from a conveyance to the point at which the vehicle is
intended and authorized to be operated;
      (3)   Unless operation of such vehicle falls within the permitted
operations outlined herein, at no time, shall any of the vehicles defined
within this section be operated on any village streets or sidewalks.
   (D)   Registration of vehicles.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (D)(2), (D)(3) and (D)(4) of this
section, no person shall operate any of the vehicles described within this
section unless the vehicle is registered and numbered in accordance with R.C. §
4519.02.
      (2)   No registration is required for vehicles described within this
section if the operation is exclusively upon lands owned by the owner of the
vehicle, or on lands to which the owner has a contractual right.
      (3)   Any vehicle described within this section that is operated by a
person who is not a resident of this state shall comply with R.C. § 4519.09.
      (4)   No registration is required for a vehicle described within this
section that is owned and used by the United States, another state or a
political subdivision thereof, but the vehicle shall display the name of the
owner thereon.
      (5)   No person who is less than 16 years of age shall operate any
vehicle described within this section on any land or waters other than private
property or waters owned by or leased to such person's
parent or guardian, unless accompanied by another person who is 18 years of
age, or older, and who holds a valid license.
   (E)   Exemptions. Properly registered vehicles defined within this section
may travel upon village streets only under the following circumstances.
      (1)   The use of any vehicles defined under this section by an officer,
employee, or agent of the village or any other governmental unit in the course
of official governmental business.
      (2)   During such time that a natural disaster is declared by the
Director of Public Safety or the Chief of Police, and as a result, traditional
methods of transportation are unavailable.
      (3)   During such times that the vehicle is being utilized for the
purpose of plowing snow, and the vehicle must have the snow plow attached at
all times.
      (4)   During village-approved parades, when the operator of the vehicle
is participating in the parade and has permission from the Director of Public
Safety or Chief of Police.
   (F)   Penalty. Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the third degree.
(Ord. 2011-31, passed 7-20-11)
§ 75.09 ELECTRIC BICYCLES.
   (A)   (1)   On and after January 1, 2020, manufacturers and distributors of
electric bicycles shall permanently affix a label, in a prominent location, to
each electric bicycle. The label shall specify whether the electric bicycle is
a class 1, class 2, or class 3 electric bicycle, the top assisted speed that
the electric bicycle is capable of reaching, and the motor wattage of the
electric bicycle.
      (2)   No person shall modify an electric bicycle in a manner that changes
the top assisted speed that the electric bicycle is capable of reaching unless
the person also modifies the label required under division (A)(1) of this
section to reflect the modification.
   (B)   (1)   The manufacturer of an electric bicycle shall ensure that the
electric bicycle complies with the equipment and manufacturing requirements for
bicycles established by the consumer product safety commission under 16 C.F.R.
§§ 1512 et seq.
      (2)   The manufacturer shall manufacture all class 1 electric bicycles
and class 3 electric bicycles so that when the rider ceases pedaling the
electric motor ceases to provide assistance. The manufacturer shall manufacture
all class 2 electric bicycles so that when the rider applies the brakes or
releases or activates a switch or similar mechanism the electric motor ceases
to provide assistance.
      (3)   All class 3 electric bicycles shall be equipped with a speedometer
that displays the speed of the electric bicycle in miles per hour.
   (C)   (1)   The operation of a class 1 electric bicycle and a class 2
electric bicycle is permitted on a path set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles or on a shared-use path, unless the county, township, municipal
corporation, other local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60
with control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule prohibits the use
of a class 1 electric bicycle or class 2 electric bicycle on such a path.
      (2)   No person shall operate a class 3 electric bicycle on a path set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles or a shared-use path unless that path
is within or adjacent to a highway or the county, township, municipal
corporation, or local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60 with
control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule authorizes the use of a
class 3 electric bicycle on such a path.
      (3)   No person shall operate a class 1 electric bicycle, a class 2
electric bicycle, or a class 3 electric bicycle on a path that is intended to
be used primarily for mountain biking, hiking, equestrian use, or other similar
uses, or any other single track or natural surface trail that has historically
been reserved for non-motorized use, unless the county, township, municipal
corporation, other local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60
with control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule authorizes the use
of a class 1 electric bicycle, a class 2 electric bicycle, or a class 3
electric bicycle on such a path.
      (4)   Divisions (C)(2) and (C)(3) of this section do not apply to a law
enforcement officer, or other person sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic
laws of the state, using an electric bicycle while in the performance of the
officer’s duties.
   (D)   (1)   No person under 16 years of age shall operate a class 3 electric
bicycle; however, a person under 16 years of age may ride as a passenger on a
class 3 electric bicycle that is designed to accommodate passengers.
      (2)   No person shall operate or be a passenger on a class 3 electric
bicycle unless the person is wearing a protective helmet that meets the
standards established by the Consumer Product Safety Commission or the American
Society for Testing and Materials.
   (E)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever operates
an electric bicycle in a manner that is prohibited under division (C) of this
section and whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   The offenses established under division (E)(1) of this section are
strict liability offenses and strict liability is a culpable mental state for
purposes of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of these offenses as strict
liability offenses shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
(R.C. § 4511.522)
CHAPTER 76: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
76.01   Prohibition against parking on highways
   
76.02   Condition when motor vehicle left unattended
   
76.03   Police may remove illegally parked vehicle
   
76.04   Parking prohibitions
   
76.05   Parking near curb; privileges for persons with disabilities
   
76.06   Removal of vehicles from village streets during snowfall
   
76.07   Processing of parking violations
   
76.08   Willfully leaving vehicles on private or public property
   
76.09   Parking of certain commercial vehicles and trailers prohibited
   
76.10   Parking of non-commercial trailers, recreational vehicles and motor
homes on public streets prohibited
Cross-reference:
   Unclaimed and abandoned vehicles, see
Chapter 92
   Unlawful furnishing of prescription to enable persons to be issued
handicapped parking placards or license plates, see §
138.17
Statutory reference:
   Noncriminal parking infractions, local option to create, see R.C. Chapter
4521
§ 76.01 PROHIBITION AGAINST PARKING ON HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon any highway, no person shall stop, park, or leave standing
any vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon the paved or main traveled
part of the highway if it is practicable to stop, park, or so leave such
vehicle off the paved or main traveled part of the highway. In every event a
clear and unobstructed portion of the highway opposite such standing vehicle
shall be left for the free passage of other vehicles, and a clear view of such
stopped vehicle shall be available from a distance of 200 feet in each
direction upon such highway.
      (2)   This section does not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is
disabled while on the paved or improved or main traveled portion of a highway
in such manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid stopping and
temporarily leaving the disabled vehicle in such position.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section shall pay a civil parking fine in the amount of $50. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(Ord. 2024-55, passed 8-7-24)
Statutory reference:
   Prohibition against parking on highways, see R.C. § 4511.66
§ 76.02 CONDITION WHEN MOTOR VEHICLE LEFT UNATTENDED.
   (A)   (1)   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit
it to stand unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition,
removing the key from the ignition, effectively setting the parking brake, and,
when the motor vehicle is standing upon any grade, turning the front wheels to
the curb or side of the highway.
      (2)   The requirements of this section relating to the stopping of the
engine, locking of the ignition, and removing the key from the ignition of a
motor vehicle do not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   A motor vehicle that is parked on residential property;
         (b)   A motor vehicle that is locked, regardless of where it is
parked;
         (c)   An emergency vehicle;
         (d)   A public safety vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section shall pay a civil parking fine in the amount of $25. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate motor
vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(Ord. 2024-55, passed 8-7-24)
Statutory reference:
   Unattended motor vehicles, see R.C. § 4511.661
§ 76.03 POLICE MAY REMOVE ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLE.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a highway in
violation of R.C. § 4511.66 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
such officer may move such vehicle, or require the driver or other person in
charge of the vehicle to move the same, to a position off the paved or improved
or main traveled part of such highway.
   (B)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any
highway, bridge, or causeway, or in any tunnel, where such vehicles constitutes
an obstruction to traffic, such officer may provide for the removal of such
vehicle to the nearest garage or other place of safety.
(R.C. § 4511.67)
§ 76.04 PARKING PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or to comply with the provisions of this
title, or while obeying the directions of a police officer or a traffic-control
device, in any of the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk, except as provided in division (B) of this section;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within ten feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (7)   Within 30 feet of, and upon the approach to, any flashing beacon,
stop sign, or traffic- control device;
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by a traffic-control device;
      (9)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (10)   Within 20 feet of a driveway entrance to any fire station and, on
the side of the street opposite the entrance to any fire station, within 75
feet of the entrance when it is properly posted with signs;
      (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
such standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (12)   Alongside any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street;
      (13)   Upon any bridge or elevated structure upon a highway, or within a
highway tunnel;
      (14)   At any place where signs prohibit stopping or parking;
      (15)   Within one foot of another parked vehicle;
      (16)   On the roadway portion of a freeway, expressway, or thruway;
      (17)   On bicycle path;
      (18)   On bridle path;
      (19)   Blocking an alley;
      (20)   Alongside a curb marked with a yellow line;
      (21)   Within a fire lane.
   (B)   A person shall be permitted, without charge or restriction, to stand
or park on a sidewalk a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter that has an engine
not larger than 150 cubic centimeters, or a bicycle or electric bicycle,
provided that the motor-driven cycle, motor scooter, bicycle, or electric
bicycle does not impede the normal flow of pedestrian traffic. This division
does not authorize any person to operate a vehicle in violation of R.C. §
4511.711, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) through (A)(3) or (A)(5)
through (A)(20) of this section shall pay a civil parking fine in the amount of
$25.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A)(4) or (A)(21) of this section shall pay a civil parking fine in
the amount of $50. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or
traffic offense, whoever violates division (A)(4) or (A)(21) of this section is
guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender
previously has been convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offenses, whoever violates division (A)(4) or (A)(21) of this section is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(Ord. 27, passed 6-5-02; Am. Ord. 2011-47, passed 9-21-11; Am. Ord. 2024-55,
passed 8-7-24)
Statutory reference:
   Parking - prohibited acts, see R.C. § 4511.68
§ 76.05 PARKING NEAR CURB; PRIVILEGES FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES.
   (A)   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway where there is an
adjacent curb shall be stopped or parked with the right-hand wheels of the
vehicle parallel with and not more than 12 inches from the right-hand curb,
unless it is impossible to approach so close to the curb; in such case the stop
shall be made as close to the curb as possible and only for the time necessary
to discharge and receive passengers or to load or unload merchandise. Local
authorities by ordinance may permit angle parking on any roadway under their
jurisdiction, except that angle parking shall not be permitted on a state route
within the municipality unless an unoccupied roadway width of not less than 25
feet is available for free- moving traffic.
   (B)   Local authorities by ordinance may permit parking of vehicles with the
left-hand wheels adjacent to and within 12 inches of the left-hand curb of a
one-way roadway.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be stopped or parked on a road or highway with the
vehicle facing in a direction other than the direction of travel on that side
of the road or highway.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any statute or any rule, regulation, resolution, or
ordinance, air compressors, tractors, trucks, and other equipment, while being
used in the construction, reconstruction, installation, repair, or removal of
facilities near, on, over, or under a street or highway, may stop, stand, or
park where necessary in order to perform such work, provided a flagperson is on
duty or warning signs or lights are displayed as may be prescribed by the
Director of Transportation.
   (E)   Special parking locations and privileges for persons with disabilities
that limit or impair the ability to walk, also known as handicapped parking
spaces or disability parking spaces, shall be provided and designated by all
political subdivisions and by the state and all agencies and instrumentalities
thereof at all offices and facilities where parking is provided, whether owned,
rented, or leased, and at all publicly owned parking garages. The locations
shall be designated through the posting of an elevated sign, whether
permanently affixed or movable, imprinted with the international symbol of
access and shall be reasonably close to exits, entrances, elevators, and ramps.
All elevated signs posted in accordance with this division and R.C. § 3781.111
(C) shall be mounted on a fixed or movable post, and the distance from the
ground to the top edge of the sign shall measure five feet. If a new sign or a
replacement sign designating a special parking location is posted on or after
October 14, 1999, there also shall be affixed upon the surface of that sign or
affixed next to the designating sign a notice that states the fine applicable
for the offense of parking a motor vehicle in the special designated parking
location if the motor vehicle is not legally entitled to be parked in that
location.
   (F)   (1)   No person shall stop, stand, or park any motor vehicle at
special parking locations provided under division (E) of this section, or at
special clearly marked parking locations provided in or on privately owned
parking lots, parking garages, or other parking areas and designated in
accordance with that division, unless one of the following applies:
         (a)   The motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of a
person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk and is
displaying a valid removable windshield placard or special license plates; or
         (b)   The motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of a
handicapped person and is displaying a parking card or special handicapped
license plates.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle that is parked in a special marked parking
location in violation of division (F)(1)(a) or (F)(1)(b) of this section may be
towed or otherwise removed from the parking location by the law enforcement
agency of the municipality. A motor vehicle that is so towed or removed shall
not be released to its owner until the owner presents proof of ownership of the
motor vehicle and pays all towing and storage fees normally imposed by the
municipality for towing and storing motor vehicles. If the motor vehicle is a
leased vehicle, it shall not be released to the lessee until the lessee
presents proof that that person is the lessee of the motor vehicle and pays all
towing and storage fees normally imposed by the municipality for towing and
storing motor vehicles.
      (3)   If a person is charged with a violation of division (F)(1)(a) or
(F)(1)(b) of this section, it is an affirmative defense to the charge that the
person suffered an injury not more than 72 hours prior to the time the person
was issued the ticket or citation and that, because of the injury, the person
meets at least one of the criteria contained in R.C. § 4503.44(A)(1).
   (G)   When a motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of a
person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk and is
displaying a removable windshield placard or a temporary removable windshield
placard or special license plates, or when a motor vehicle is being operated by
or for the transport of a handicapped person, and is displaying a parking card
or special handicapped license plates, the motor vehicle is permitted to park
for a period of two hours in excess of the legal parking period permitted by
local authorities, except where local ordinances or police rules provide
otherwise or where the vehicle is parked in such a manner as to be clearly a
traffic hazard.
   (H)   No owner of an office, facility, or parking garage where special
parking locations are required to be designated in accordance with division (E)
of this section shall fail to properly mark the special parking locations in
accordance with that division or fail to maintain the markings of the special
locations, including the erection and maintenance of the fixed or movable
signs.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require a person or
organization to apply for a removable windshield placard or special license
plates if the parking card or special license plates issued to the person or
organization under prior law have not expired or been surrendered or revoked.
   (J)   As used in this section:
      HANDICAPPED PERSON means any person who has lost the use of one or both
legs or one or both arms, who is blind, deaf, or so severely handicapped as to
be unable to move without the aid of crutches or a wheelchair, or whose
mobility is restricted by a permanent cardiovascular, pulmonary, or other
handicapping condition.
      PERSON WITH A DISABILITY THAT LIMITS OR IMPAIRS THE ABILITY TO WALK has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 4503.44.
      SPECIAL LICENSE PLATES and REMOVABLE WINDSHIELD PLACARD mean any license
plates or removable windshield placard or temporary removable windshield
placard issued under R.C. § 4503.41 or 4503.44, and also mean any substantially
equivalent license plates or removable windshield placard or temporary
removable windshield placard issued by a state, district, country, or
sovereignty.
   (K)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (A) or (C) of this section shall pay a
civil parking fine of $25.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (F)(1)(a) or (F)(1)(b) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in
division (K)(2)(a) and (K)(2)(b) of this section. Except as otherwise provided
in division (K)(2)(a) of this section, an offender who violates division (F)(1)
(a) or (F)(1)(b) of this section shall be fined not less than $250 nor more
than $500. An offender who violates division (F)(1)(a) or (F)(1)(b) of this
section shall be fined not more than $100 if the offender, prior to sentencing,
proves either of the following to the satisfaction of the court:
            1.   At the time of the violation of division (F)(1)(a) of this
section, the offender or the person for whose transport the motor vehicle was
being operated had been issued a removable windshield placard that then was
valid or special license plates that then were valid but the offender or the
person neglected to display the placard or license plates as described in
division (F)(1)(a) of this section.
            2.   At the time of the violation of division (F)(1)(b) of this
section, the offender or the person for whose transport the motor vehicle was
being operated had been issued a parking card that then was valid or special
handicapped license plates that then were valid but the offender or the person
neglected to display the card or license plates as described in division (F)(1)
(b) of this section.
         (b)   In no case shall an offender who violates division (F)(1)(a) or
(F)(1)(b) be sentenced to any term of imprisonment.
         (c)   An arrest or conviction for a violation of division (F)(1)(a) or
(F)(1)(b) of this section does not constitute a criminal record and need not be
reported by the person so arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries
contained in any application for employment, license, or other right or
privilege, or made in connection with the person’s appearance as a witness.
         (d)   The clerk of the court shall pay every fine collected under
division (K)(2) of this section to the village. Except as provided in division
(K)(2) of this section, the village shall use the fine moneys it receives under
division (K)(2) of this section to pay the expenses it incurs in complying with
the signage and notice requirements contained in division (E) of this section.
The village may use up to 50% of each fine it receives under divisions (K)(2)
of this section to pay the costs of educational, advocacy, support, and
assistive technology programs for persons with disabilities, and for public
improvements within the municipality that benefit or assist persons with
disabilities, if governmental agencies or nonprofit organizations offer the
programs.
(Ord. 42, passed 7-2-00; Am. Ord. 2024-55, passed 8-7-24)
      (3)   Whoever violates division (H) of this section shall be punished as
follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (K)(3) of this section,
the offender shall be issued a warning.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (H) of this section or of a municipal
ordinance that is substantially equivalent to that division, the offender shall
not be issued a warning but shall be fined not more than $25 for each parking
location that is not properly marked or whose markings are not properly
maintained.
(R.C. § 4511.69)
Cross-reference:
   Unlawful furnishing of prescription to enable persons to be issued
handicapped parking placards or license plates, see §
138.17
Statutory reference:
   Buildings, access for disabled persons, see R.C. § 3781.111
§ 76.06 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES FROM VILLAGE STREETS DURING SNOWFALL.
   (A)   In order to facilitate the cleaning of village streets and to expedite
the free flow of vehicular traffic, motor vehicles shall not be parked on the
village streets at such times as the United States Weather Bureau records
indicate that two inches of snow have fallen and there is a prospect of a
further snowfall. Any motor vehicle parked in violation of this prohibition
shall be removed at the order of the Chief of Police.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of
motor vehicles to ascertain whether weather conditions require the removal of
their motor vehicles from the village streets and to remove all motor vehicles
parked in violation of this section. The Chief of Police shall make every
effort to inform the public of the existence of weather conditions requiring
removal of parked automobiles from the streets, through the radio, newspaper
and all other available media to the extent feasible.
      (2)   Nevertheless, the owners and operators of motor vehicles parked on
the village streets shall have full responsibility to determine existing
weather conditions and to remove parked automobiles if the weather conditions
are such as require their removal under the terms of this section.
   (C)   After the United States Weather Bureau records indicate that two
inches of snow have fallen and there is a prospect of further snowfall, the
Chief of Police shall order the removal of all vehicles parked on the village
streets which have not been removed by the owners or operators. Such vehicles
shall, at the owner's and operator's expense, be removed to a motor vehicle
pound within the municipal boundaries. Records shall be kept in the Police
Department of all vehicles removed.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section shall pay a civil parking fine in the amount of $30. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate motor
vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(Ord. 89-1976, passed 12-1-76; Am. Ord. 2024-55, passed 8-7-24)
§ 76.07 PROCESSING OF PARKING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The processing of parking violations shall be handled under the
jurisdiction of the Mayor’s Court.
   (B)   The jurisdiction of such parking violations shall include handling of
all parking violations occurring within the limits of the village ordinances
and code of ordinances; and such violations shall be deemed not to be
considered a criminal offense for any purpose.
   (C)   The Clerk of Court’s office of the Mayor’s Court shall be authorized
to receive and collect in the same manner as all other traffic offenses are
handled by the Mayor’s Court.
(Ord. 51, passed 9-6-00)
§ 76.08 WILLFULLY LEAVING VEHICLES ON PRIVATE OR PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall willfully leave an abandoned junk motor vehicle
as defined in R.C. § 4513.63 on private property for more than 72 hours without
the permission of the person having the right to the possession of the
property, or on a public street or other property open to the public for
purposes of vehicular travel or parking, or upon or within the right-of-way of
any road or highway, for 48 hours or longer without notification to the sheriff
of the county or chief of a law enforcement agency of the municipal
corporation, township, port authority, conservancy district, or township or
joint police district of the reasons for leaving the motor vehicle in such
place.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, the fact that a motor vehicle has
been so left without permission or notification is prima-facie evidence of
abandonment.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and
shall also be assessed any costs incurred by the village in disposing of the
abandoned junk motor vehicle that is the basis of the violation, less any money
accruing to the village from this disposal of the vehicle.
(Ord. 51, passed 11-7-01; Am. Ord. 2024-55, passed 8-7-24)
§ 76.09 PARKING OF CERTAIN COMMERCIAL VEHICLES AND TRAILERS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall park any semi-truck, tractor or trailer, garbage
truck, cement truck/mixer, tanker truck, dump truck, large earth moving
construction equipment (i.e. bulldozer or backhoe), in or on any lot within the
village that is zoned R-1, R-2 or R-3 by the Codified Ordinances, except in
situations where that vehicle is parked in or on that lot for the purpose of
performing a service at the property where said vehicle is parked.
      (1)   Additionally, no person shall park any trailer or non-commercial
trailer as defined in this chapter on any public roadway, except in situations
where the trailer is parked on the public roadway for the purpose of performing
a service at or near the property where the trailer is parked.
      (2)   TRAILER means any vehicle without motive power that is designed or
used for carrying property or persons wholly on its own structure and for being
drawn by a motor vehicle. TRAILER does not include manufactured homes or travel
trailers.
   (B)   No vehicles listed in division (A) of this section may be parked on
any street or right-of-way within or bordering an R-1, R-2 or R-3 zoning
district unless said vehicle is performing a service to a lot directly adjacent
to where the vehicle is parked or is performing construction work within the
street or right-of-way where the vehicle is parked.
   (C)   No person, other than the village or a person who has contracted with
the village for the provision of services, may park any vehicle listed in
division (A) of this section in any parking area or lot owned by the village
unless said vehicle is performing a service to a property adjacent to or
directly across the street from said lot.
   (D)   Any violation of this section shall be a minor misdemeanor, punishable
by a fine of no more than $150. Any second or additional violation of this
section shall not be a waiverable offense. Each day that a vehicle is parked in
a prohibited area, as set forth in this section, shall constitute a separate
violation of this section.
(Ord. 51, passed 6-18-08; Am. Ord. 2010-38, passed 8-4-10)
§ 76.10 PARKING OF NON-COMMERCIAL TRAILERS, RECREATIONAL VEHICLES AND MOTOR
HOMES ON PUBLIC STREETS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The terms NON-COMMERCIAL TRAILER, MOBILE HOME, RECREATIONAL VEHICLE,
TRAVEL TRAILER, HOUSE VEHICLE, MOTOR HOME, TRUCK CAMPER, FIFTH WHEEL TRAILER,
and PARK TRAILER shall have the same meanings as those set forth in R.C. §
4501.01.
   (B)   No person shall park any non-commercial trailer, mobile home,
recreational vehicle, travel trailer, house vehicle, motor home, truck camper,
fifth wheel trailer, or park trailer on any street or right-of-way within the
village unless the same is being loaded or unloaded and it is parking in an
area where motor vehicles are permitted to park. No loading or unloading
permitted under this section shall exceed four hours in length.
   (C)   Any violation of this section shall be a minor misdemeanor, punishable
by a fine of no more than $150. Any second or additional violation of this
section shall not be a waivable offense. Each day that a non-commercial
trailer, mobile home, recreational vehicle, travel trailer, house vehicle,
motor home, truck camper, fifth wheel trailer, or park trailer is parked in
violation of this section shall constitute a separate violation of this
section.
(Ord. 2023-42, passed 6-21-23)
CHAPTER 77: RAILROADS
Section
   
77.01   Obstructing streets by railroad companies
   
77.02   Climbing upon railroad cars
   
77.03   Duties of locomotive engineer
Statutory reference:
   Duties of engineers, see R.C. § 4999.04
   Lighting railroads, see R.C. § 723.33 et seq.
   Similar state law, see section histories
§ 77.01 OBSTRUCTING STREETS BY RAILROAD COMPANIES.
   (A)   (1)   No railroad company shall obstruct or permit or cause to be
obstructed a public street, road or highway by permitting a railroad car,
locomotive or other obstruction to remain upon or across it for longer than
five minutes to the hindrance or inconvenience of travelers or a person passing
along or upon such street, road or highway.
      (2)   At the end of each five minute period of obstruction of a public
street, road or highway, each railroad company shall cause such railroad car,
locomotive or other obstruction to be removed for sufficient time, not less
than three minutes, to allow the passage of persons and vehicles waiting to
cross.
      (3)   This section does not apply to obstruction of a public street, road
or highway by a continuously moving through train or caused by circumstances
wholly beyond the control of the railroad company, but does apply to other
obstructions, including without limitation those caused by stopped trains and
trains engaged in switching, loading or unloading operations.
      (4)   If a railroad car, locomotive, or other obstruction is obstructing
a public street, road, or highway in violation of division (A)(1) of this
section and the violation occurs in the unincorporated area of one or more
counties, or in one or more municipal corporations, the officers and employees
of each affected county or municipal corporation may charge the railroad
company with only one violation of the law arising from the same facts and
circumstances and the same act.
      (5)   Upon the filing of an affidavit or complaint for violation of this
section, summons shall be issued to the railroad company pursuant to R.C. §
2935.10(B), which summons shall be served on the regular ticket or freight
agent of the company in the county where the offense occurred.
(R.C. § 5589.21)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 5589.99(B)) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 77.02 CLIMBING UPON RAILROAD CARS.
   (A)   No person shall climb, jump, step or stand upon or cling or attach
himself to a locomotive, engine or car upon the track of a railroad, unless in
compliance with law or by permission under the rules of the corporation
managing such railroad.
(R.C. § 4999.02)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 77.03 DUTIES OF LOCOMOTIVE ENGINEER.
   (A)   No person in charge of a locomotive shall:
      (1)   Fail to bring the locomotive to a full stop at least 200 feet
before arriving at a crossing with another track, or proceed through the
crossing before signaled to do so or before the way is clear; or
      (2)   When approaching a grade crossing, fail to sound the locomotive
whistle at frequent intervals, beginning not less than 1,500 feet from such
crossing and continuing until the locomotive has passed the crossing.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree, unless the violation causes physical harm to any person, in which case
it is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4999.04) Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FIREWORKS, EXPLOSIVES, FIRE PREVENTION
      
92.   JUNK MOTOR VEHICLES
      
93.   NUISANCES
      
94.   SANITATION AND HEALTH
      
95.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
96.   INSURANCE PROCEEDS FOR FIRE DAMAGE
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
Animals Running at Large
   
90.01   Dogs or other animals running at large; nuisance, dangerous or vicious
dogs; hearings
   
90.02   Confining animal found at large; publication of notice; lien
   
90.03   Unavoidable escapes
   
90.04   Fees
   
90.05   Rabies quarantine orders of Mayor
   
90.06   Interfering with enforcement of quarantine orders
   
90.07   Dogs may be killed for certain acts
Offenses Relating to Animals
   
90.20   Abandoning animals
   
90.21   Injuring animals
   
90.22   Poisoning animals
   
90.23   Cruelty to animals; cruelty to companion animals
   
90.24   Animal fights
   
90.25   Trapshooting
   
90.26   Loud dog
   
90.27   Dog tags
   
90.28   Nuisance, dangerous and vicious dog defined; transfer of ownership
certificate; form stating dog's prior behavior
   
90.29   Failure to register dog or dog kennel
   
90.30   Hindering the capture of unregistered dog
   
90.31   Unlawful tag
   
90.32   Assistance dogs with blind, deaf, or hearing impaired person, or person
with a mobility impairment, or trainer
   
90.33   Retail sale and transportation of dogs
   
90.34   Coloring rabbits or baby poultry; regulation of sale and display
   
90.35   Jacklighting prohibited
   
90.36   Hunting prohibited
   
90.37   Nuisance conditions prohibited
   
90.38   Restrictions on dog ownership for certain convicted felons
   
90.39   Sexual conduct with an animal
   
90.40   Feeding of animals
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Assaulting police dog, horse or assistance dog, see §
136.15
   Dead animals, improper disposal as nuisance, see §
93.23
   Nuisances, see §
93.04
Statutory reference:
   Hunting and fishing regulations, see R.C. Chapter 1533
   Law enforcement canine registration, see R.C. § 955.012
   Nuisance wild animal trapping, see O.A.C. § 1501:31-15-03
   Possession of dangerous wild animals and restricted snakes, requirements and
licensing, see R.C. Chapter 935
   Rabies: report of dog bite, confinement of animal, report of suspected rabid
animal, see O.A.C. §§ 3701-3-28 et seq.
ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE
§ 90.01 DOGS OR OTHER ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE; NUISANCE, DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS
DOGS; HEARINGS.
   (A)   Animals running at large.
      (1)   No person, who is the owner or keeper of horses, mules, cattle,
bison, sheep, goats, swine, llamas, alpacas, or poultry, shall permit them to
run at large in the public road, highway, street, lane, or alley, or upon
unenclosed land, or cause the animals to be herded, kept, or detained for the
purpose of grazing on premises other than those owned or lawfully occupied by
the owner or keeper of the animals.
(R.C. § 951.02)
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (A) is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 951.99)
      (3)   The owner or keeper of an animal described in division (A)(1) of
this section who negligently permits it to run at large in violation of
division (A)(1) of this section is liable for all damages resulting from
injury, death, or loss to person or property caused by the animal in any of the
places specified in division (A)(1) of this section or upon the premises of
another without reference to the fence that may enclose the premises.
      (4)   The running at large of any animal specified in division (A)(1) of
this section in or upon any of the places specified in division (A)(1) of this
section is prima facie evidence in a civil action for damages under division
(A)(3) of this section that the owner or keeper of the animal negligently
permitted the animal to run at large in violation of division (A)(1) of this
section.
(R.C. § 951.10)
   (B)   Dogs running at large; dangerous dogs; debarked or surgically silenced
dangerous dogs.
      (1)   As used in this division (B), DANGEROUS DOG has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 955.11.
      (2)   No owner, keeper, or harborer of any female dog shall permit it to
go beyond the premises of the owner, keeper, or harborer at any time the dog is
in heat unless the dog is properly in leash.
      (3)   Except when a dog is lawfully engaged in hunting and accompanied by
the owner, keeper, harborer, or handler of the dog, no owner, keeper, harborer,
or handler shall fail at any time to do the following:
         (a)   Keep the dog physically confined or restrained upon the premises
of the owner, keeper, or harborer by a leash, tether, adequate fence, or secure
enclosure to prevent escape;
         (b)   Keep the dog under the reasonable control of some person, by
means of a leash.
(Am. Ord. 2011-55, passed 11-2-11)
      (4)   Except when a dangerous dog is lawfully engaged in hunting or
training for the purpose of hunting and is accompanied by the owner, keeper,
harborer, or handler of the dog, no owner, keeper, or harborer of a dangerous
dog shall fail to do either of the following:
         (a)   While the dog is on the premises of the owner, keeper, or
harborer, securely confine it at all times in a locked pen that has a top,
locked fenced yard, or other locked enclosure that has a top.
         (b)   While the dog is off the premises of the owner, keeper, or
harborer, keep that dog on a chain-link leash or tether that is not more than
six feet in length and additionally do at least one of the following: keep the
dog in a locked pen that has a top, locked fenced yard, or other locked
enclosure that has a top; have the leash or tether controlled by a person who
is of suitable age and discretion or securely attach, tie, or affix the leash
or tether to the ground or a stationary object or fixture so that the dog is
adequately restrained and station a person in close enough proximity to that
dog so as to prevent it from causing injury to any person; or muzzle that dog.
      (5)   No person who has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or
more violations of division (B)(3) of this section involving the same dog and
no owner, keeper, or harborer of a dangerous dog shall fail to do the
following:
         (a)   Obtain liability insurance with an insurer authorized to write
liability insurance in this state providing coverage in each occurrence because
of damage or bodily injury to or death of a person caused by the dangerous dog
if so ordered by a court and provide proof of that liability insurance upon
request to any law enforcement officer, county dog warden, or public health
official charged with enforcing this section;
         (b)   Obtain a dangerous dog registration certificate from the County
Auditor pursuant to division (B)(9) of this section, affix a tag that
identifies the dog as a dangerous dog to the dog’s collar, and ensure that the
dog wears the collar and tag at all times;
         (c)   Notify the local dog warden immediately if any of the following
occurs:
            1.   The dog is loose or unconfined.
            2.   The dog bites a person, unless the dog is on the property of
the owner of the dog, and the person who is bitten is unlawfully trespassing or
committing a criminal act within the boundaries of that property.
            3.   The dog attacks another animal while the dog is off the
property of the owner of the dog.
         (d)   If the dog is sold, given to another person, or dies, notify the
County Auditor within ten days of the sale, transfer, or death.
      (6)   No person shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Debark or surgically silence a dog that the person knows or has
reason to believe is a dangerous dog;
         (b)   Possess a dangerous dog if the person knows or has reason to
believe that the dog has been debarked or surgically silenced;
         (c)   Falsely attest on a waiver form provided by the veterinarian
under division (B)(7) of this section that the person’s dog is not a dangerous
dog or otherwise provide false information on that written waiver form.
      (7)   Before a veterinarian debarks or surgically silences a dog, the
veterinarian may give the owner of the dog a written waiver form that attests
that the dog is not a dangerous dog. The written waiver form shall include all
of the following:
         (a)   The veterinarian’s license number and current business address;
         (b)   The number of the license of the dog if the dog is licensed;
         (c)   A reasonable description of the age, coloring, and gender of the
dog as well as any notable markings on the dog;
         (d)   The signature of the owner of the dog attesting that the owner’s
dog is not a dangerous dog;
         (e)   A statement that R.C. § 955.22(F) prohibits any person from
doing any of the following:
            1.   Debarking or surgically silencing a dog that the person knows
or has reason to believe is a vicious dog;
            2.   Possessing a dangerous dog if the person knows or has reason
to believe that the dog has been debarked or surgically silenced;
            3.   Falsely attesting on a waiver form provided by the
veterinarian under R.C. § 955.22(G) that the person’s dog is not a dangerous
dog or otherwise provide false information on that written waiver form.
      (8)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of division
(B)(6) of this section that the veterinarian who is charged with the violation
obtained, prior to debarking or surgically silencing the dog, a written waiver
form that complies with division (B)(7) of this section and that attests that
the dog is not a dangerous dog.
      (9)   (a)   The County Auditor shall issue a dangerous dog registration
certificate to a person who is the owner of a dog, who is 18 years of age or
older, and who provides the following to the County Auditor:
            1.   A fee of $50;
            2.   The person’s address, phone number, and other appropriate
means for the local dog warden or County Auditor to contact the person;
            3.   With respect to the person and the dog for which the
registration is sought, all of the following:
               a.   Either satisfactory evidence of the dog’s current rabies
vaccination or a statement from a licensed veterinarian that a rabies
vaccination is medically contraindicated for the dog;
               b.    Either satisfactory evidence of the fact that the dog has
been neutered or spayed or a statement from a licensed veterinarian that
neutering or spaying of the dog is medically contraindicated;
               c.   Satisfactory evidence of the fact that the person has
posted and will continue to post clearly visible signs at the person’s
residence warning both minors and adults of the presence of a dangerous dog on
the property;
               d.   Satisfactory evidence of the fact that the dog has been
permanently identified by means of a microchip and the dog’s microchip number.
         (b)   Upon the issuance of a dangerous dog registration certificate to
the owner of a dog, the County Auditor shall provide the owner with a uniformly
designed tag that identifies the animal as a dangerous dog. The owner shall
renew the certificate annually for the same fee and in the same manner as the
initial certificate was obtained. If a certificate holder relocates to a new
county, the certificate holder shall follow the procedure in division (B)(9)
(c)2. of this section and, upon the expiration of the certificate issued in the
original county, shall renew the certificate in the new county.
         (c)   1.   If the owner of a dangerous dog for whom a registration
certificate has previously been obtained relocates to a new address within the
same county, the owner shall provide notice of the new address to the County
Auditor within ten days of relocating to the new address.
            2.   If the owner of a dangerous dog for whom a registration
certificate has previously been obtained relocates to a new address within
another county, the owner shall do both of the following within ten days of
relocating to the new address:
               a.   Provide written notice of the new address and a copy of the
original dangerous dog registration certificate to the County Auditor of the
new county;
               b.   Provide written notice of the new address to the County
Auditor of the county where the owner previously resided.
         (d)   The owner of a dangerous dog shall present the dangerous dog
registration certificate upon being requested to do so by any law enforcement
officer, dog warden, or public health official charged with enforcing this
section.
(R.C. § 955.22)
   (C)   Hearing.
      (1)   The municipal court or county court that has territorial
jurisdiction over the residence of the owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog
shall conduct any hearing concerning the designation of the dog as a nuisance
dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog.
      (2)   If a person who is authorized to enforce this chapter has
reasonable cause to believe that a dog in the person’s jurisdiction is a
nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog, the person shall notify the owner,
keeper, or harborer of that dog, by certified mail or in person, of both of the
following:
         (a)   That the person has designated the dog a nuisance dog, dangerous
dog, or vicious dog, as applicable;
         (b)   That the owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog may request a
hearing regarding the designation in accordance with this division (C). The
notice shall include instructions for filing a request for a hearing in the
county in which the dog’s owner, keeper, or harborer resides.
      (3)   If the owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog disagrees with the
designation of the dog as a nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog, as
applicable, the owner, keeper, or harborer, not later than ten days after
receiving notification of the designation, may request a hearing regarding the
determination. The request for a hearing shall be in writing and shall be filed
with the municipal court or county court that has territorial jurisdiction over
the residence of the dog’s owner, keeper, or harborer. At the hearing, the
person who designated the dog as a nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog
has the burden of proving, by clear and convincing evidence, that the dog is a
nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog. The owner, keeper, or harborer of
the dog or the person who designated the dog as a nuisance dog, dangerous dog,
or vicious dog may appeal the court’s final determination as in any other case
filed in that court.
      (4)   A court, upon motion of an owner, keeper, or harborer or an
attorney representing the owner, keeper, or harborer, may order that the dog
designated as a nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog be held in the
possession of the owner, keeper, or harborer until the court makes a final
determination under this section or during the pendency of an appeal, as
applicable. Until the court makes a final determination and during the pendency
of any appeal, the dog shall be confined or restrained in accordance with the
provisions of division (B)(4) that apply to dangerous dogs regardless of
whether the dog has been designated as a vicious dog or a nuisance dog rather
than a dangerous dog. The owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog shall not be
required to comply with any other requirements established in this Code or the
Ohio Revised Code that concern a nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog,
as applicable, until the court makes a final determination and during the
pendency of any appeal.
      (5)   If a dog is finally determined under this division (C), or on
appeal as described in this division (C), to be a vicious dog, §
90.28(D) and divisions (B)(4) to (B)(9) of this section apply with respect to
the dog and the owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog as if the dog were a
dangerous dog, and §
90.38 applies with respect to the dog as if it were a dangerous dog, and the
court shall issue an order that specifies that those provisions apply with
respect to the dog and the owner, keeper, or harborer in that manner. As part
of the order, the court shall require the owner, keeper, or harborer to obtain
the liability insurance required under division (B)(5)(a) in an amount
described in division (D)(4)(b) of this section.
      (6)   As used in this division (C), NUISANCE DOG, DANGEROUS DOG, and
VICIOUS DOG have the same meanings as in R.C. § 955.11.
(R.C. § 955.222)
   (D)   Penalty.
      (1)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section or commits a
violation of division (B)(3) of this section that involves a dog that is not a
nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog shall be fined not less than $25 or
more than $100 on a first offense, and on each subsequent offense shall be
fined not less than $75 or more than $250 and may be imprisoned for not more
than 30 days.
         (b)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in division (D)(1)(a) of
this section, if the offender is guilty of a violation of division (B)(2) of
this section or a violation of division (B)(3) of this section that involves a
dog that is not a nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog, the court may
order the offender to personally supervise the dog that the offender owns,
keeps, or harbors, to cause that dog to complete dog obedience training, or to
do both.
(R.C. § 955.99(E))
      (2)   (a)   Whoever commits a violation of division (B)(3) of this
section that involves a nuisance dog is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on the
first offense and of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on each subsequent
offense involving the same dog. Upon a person being convicted of or pleading
guilty to a third violation of division (B)(3) of this section involving the
same dog, the court shall require the offender to register the involved dog as
a dangerous dog.
         (b)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in division (D)(2)(a) of
this section, if a violation of division (B)(3) of this section involves a
nuisance dog, the court may order the offender to personally supervise the
nuisance dog that the offender owns, keeps, or harbors, to cause that dog to
complete dog obedience training, or to do both.
(R.C. § 955.99(F))
      (3)   Whoever commits a violation of division (B)(3) of this section that
involves a dangerous dog, or a violation of division (B)(4) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and of a
misdemeanor of the third degree on each subsequent offense. Additionally, the
court may order the offender to personally supervise the dangerous dog that the
offender owns, keeps, or harbors, to cause that dog to complete dog obedience
training, or to do both, and the court may order the offender to obtain
liability insurance pursuant to division (B)(5) of this section. The court, in
the alternative, may order the dangerous dog to be humanely destroyed by a
licensed veterinarian, the county dog warden, or the county humane society at
the owner’s expense. With respect to a violation of division (B)(3) of this
section that involves a dangerous dog, until the court makes a final
determination and during the pendency of any appeal of a violation of that
division and at the discretion of the dog warden, the dog shall be confined or
restrained in accordance with division (B)(4) of this section or at the county
dog pound at the owner’s expense.
(R.C. § 955.99(G))
      (4)   (a)   Whoever commits a violation of division (B)(3) of this
section that involves a vicious dog is guilty of one of the following:
            1.   A felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the
dog kills or seriously injures a person. Additionally, the court shall order
that the vicious dog be humanely destroyed by a licensed veterinarian, the
county dog warden, or the county humane society at the owner’s expense.
            2.   A misdemeanor of the first degree if the dog causes serious
injury to a person. Additionally, the court may order the vicious dog to be
humanely destroyed by a licensed veterinarian, the county dog warden, or the
county humane society at the owner’s expense.
         (b)   If the court does not order the vicious dog to be destroyed
under division (D)(4)(a)2. of this section, the court shall issue an order that
specifies that §
90.28(D) and divisions (B)(4) to (B)(9) of this section apply with respect to
the dog and the owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog as if the dog were a
dangerous dog and that §
90.38 applies with respect to the dog as if it were a dangerous dog. As part of
the order, the court shall order the offender to obtain the liability insurance
required under division (B)(5)(a) of this section in an amount, exclusive of
interest and costs, that equals or exceeds $100,000. Until the court makes a
final determination and during the pendency of any appeal of a violation of
division (B)(3) of this section and at the discretion of the dog warden, the
dog shall be confined or restrained in accordance with the provisions described
in division (B)(4) of this section or at the county dog pound at the owner’s
expense.
(R.C. § 955.99(H))
      (5)   Whoever violates division (B)(5)(b) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 955.99(J))
      (6)   Whoever violates division (B)(6)(a), (B)(6)(b), or (B)(6)(c) of
this section is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law. Additionally, the court shall order that the dog involved in the violation
be humanely destroyed by a licensed veterinarian, the county dog warden, or the
county humane society. Until the court makes a final determination and during
the pendency of any appeal of a violation of division (B)(6)(a), (B)(6)(b), or
(B)(6)(c) of this section and at the discretion of the dog warden, the dog
shall be confined or restrained in accordance with the provisions of division
(B)(4) of this section or at the county dog pound at the owner’s expense.
(R.C. § 955.99(L))
      (7)   Whoever violates division (B)(5)(a), (B)(5)(c), or (B)(5)(d) of
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 955.99(M))
      (8)   Whoever violates division (B)(9)(d) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 955.99(N))
      (9)   (a)   If a dog is confined at the county dog pound pursuant to
division (D)(3), (D)(4), or (D)(6) of this section, the county dog warden shall
give written notice of the confinement to the owner of the dog. If the county
dog warden is unable to give the notice to the owner of the dog, the county dog
warden shall post the notice on the door of the residence of the owner of the
dog or in another conspicuous place on the premises at which the dog was
seized. The notice shall include a statement that a security in the amount of
$100 is due to the county dog warden within ten days to secure payment of all
reasonable expenses, including medical care and boarding of the dog for 60
days, expected to be incurred by the county dog pound in caring for the dog
pending the determination. The county dog warden may draw from the security any
actual costs incurred in caring for the dog.
         (b)   If the person ordered to post security under division (D)(9)(a)
of this section does not do so within ten days of the confinement of the
animal, the dog is forfeited, and the county dog warden may determine the
disposition of the dog unless the court issues an order that specifies
otherwise.
         (c)   Not more than ten days after the court makes a final
determination under division (D)(3), (D)(4), or (D)(6) of this section, the
county dog warden shall provide the owner of the dog with the actual cost of
the confinement of the dog. If the county dog warden finds that the security
provided under division (D)(9)(a) of this section is less than the actual cost
of confinement of the dog, the owner shall remit the difference between the
security provided and the actual cost to the county dog warden within 30 days
after the court’s determination. If the county dog warden finds that the
security provided under division (D)(9)(a) of this section is greater than that
actual cost, the county dog warden shall remit the difference between the
security provided and the actual cost to the owner within 30 days after the
court’s determination.
(R.C. § 955.99(P))
      (10)   As used in this division (D), NUISANCE DOG, DANGEROUS DOG, and
VICIOUS DOG have the same meanings as in R.C. § 955.11.
(R.C. § 955.99(Q))
Statutory reference:
   Power of municipality to regulate animals running at large, see R.C. §§
715.23 and 955.221
§ 90.02 CONFINING ANIMAL FOUND AT LARGE; PUBLICATION OF NOTICE; LIEN.
   A person finding an animal at large in violation of §
90.01(A)(1) may, and a law enforcement officer of the municipality on view or
information shall, take and confine that animal, promptly giving notice of the
taking and confining of the animal to the owner or keeper, if known, and if not
known, by publishing a notice describing the animal once in a newspaper of
general circulation in the county or municipality where the animal was found.
If the owner or keeper does not appear and claim the animal and pay the
compensation prescribed in §
90.04 for so taking, advertising, and keeping it within ten days from the date
of the notice, that person or the county shall have a lien for that
compensation and the animal may be sold at public auction as provided in R.C. §
1311.49. The residue of the proceeds of sale shall be paid and deposited by the
Treasurer in the General Funds of the county.
(R.C. § 951.11)
§ 90.03 UNAVOIDABLE ESCAPES.
   If it is proven that an animal running at large in violation of §
90.01(A)(1) escaped from its owner or keeper without the owner’s or keeper’s
knowledge or fault, the animal shall be returned to its owner or keeper upon
payment of the compensation prescribed in §
90.04 for its taking, advertising and keeping.
(R.C. § 951.12)
§ 90.04 FEES.
   (A)   The person or municipality whose law enforcement officer takes an
animal running at large in violation of §
90.01(A)(1) is entitled to receive from the owner or keeper of the animal the
following compensation:
      (1)   For taking and advertising each animal, $5; and
      (2)   Reasonable expenses actually incurred for keeping each animal.
   (B)   Compensation for taking, advertising, and keeping a single herd or
flock shall not exceed $50 when the flock or herd belongs to one person.
(R.C. § 951.13)
§ 90.05 RABIES QUARANTINE ORDERS OF MAYOR.
   (A)   Whenever, in the judgment of the Mayor or his or her designee, rabies
is prevalent, he or she shall declare a quarantine of all dogs in the
municipality or a part thereof. During the quarantine, the owner, keeper or
harborer of any dog shall keep it confined on the premises of the owner, keeper
or harborer or in a pound, kennel, or other suitable place, at the expense of
the owner, keeper or harborer, except that a dog may be permitted to leave the
premises of its owner, keeper or harborer if it is under leash or under the
control of a responsible person. The quarantine order shall be considered an
emergency and need not be published.
   (B)   When the quarantine has been declared, the Mayor or his or her
designee may require the vaccination for rabies of all dogs within the
municipality or part thereof.
(R.C. § 955.26)
   (C)   No person shall violate a rabies quarantine order issued under this
section or R.C. § 955.26.
(R.C. § 955.39)
   (D)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor for a first offense; for each subsequent offense such person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 955.99(C))
§ 90.06 INTERFERING WITH ENFORCEMENT OF QUARANTINE ORDERS.
   (A)   No person shall hinder, obstruct, resist or interfere with any
enforcing officer while engaged in enforcing an order issued under §
90.05.
   (B)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the hindrance,
obstruction, resistance, or interference alleged consisted of constitutionally
protected speech only.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 DOGS MAY BE KILLED FOR CERTAIN ACTS.
   Subject to R.C. § 955.261(A)(2) and (A)(3), a dog that is chasing or
approaching in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack that attempts
to bite or otherwise endanger, or that kills or injures a person, or a dog that
chases, threatens, harasses, injures, or kills livestock, poultry, other
domestic animal, or other animal that is the property of another person, except
a cat or another dog, can be killed at the time of that chasing, threatening,
harassment, approaching, attempt, killing or injury. If, in attempting to kill
such a dog, a person wounds it, the person is not liable to prosecution under
the criminal laws or ordinances that punish cruelty to animals. Nothing in this
section precludes a law enforcement officer from killing a dog that attacks a
police dog as defined in R.C. § 2921.321.
(R.C. § 955.28(A))
OFFENSES RELATING TO ANIMALS
§ 90.20 ABANDONING ANIMALS.
   (A)   No owner or keeper of a dog, cat, or other domestic animal shall
abandon the animal.
(R.C. § 959.01)
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the second degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the
first degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 959.99(E)(3))
§ 90.21 INJURING ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall maliciously, or willfully and without the consent of
the owner, kill or injure a dog, cat, or any other domestic animal that is the
property of another. This section does not apply to a licensed veterinarian
acting in an official capacity.
(R.C. § 959.02)
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
If the value of the animal killed or the injury done amounts to $300 or more,
whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 959.99(B))
   (C)   This section does not apply to a person killing or injuring an animal
or attempting to do so while endeavoring to prevent it from trespassing upon
his or her enclosure, or while it is so trespassing, or while driving it away
from his or her premises; provided within 15 days thereafter, payment is made
for damages done to such animal by killing or injuring, less the actual amount
of damage done by such animal while so trespassing, or a sufficient sum of
money is deposited with the nearest judge of a county court or judge of a
municipal court having jurisdiction within such time to cover the damages. The
deposit shall remain in the custody of such judge until there is a
determination of the damage resulting from such killing or injury and from the
trespass. The judge and his or her bondsmen shall be responsible for the
safekeeping of such money and for the payment thereof as for money collected
upon a judgment.
(R.C. § 959.04)
§ 90.22 POISONING ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall maliciously, or willfully and without the consent of
the owner, administer poison, except a licensed veterinarian acting in such
capacity, to a dog, cat, or any other domestic animal that is the property of
another; and no person shall, willfully and without the consent of the owner,
place any poisoned food where it may be easily found and eaten by any such
animal, either upon his or her own lands or the lands of another.
(R.C. § 959.03)
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 959.99(C))
   (C)   This section does not apply to a person killing or injuring an animal
or attempting to do so while endeavoring to prevent it from trespassing upon
his or her enclosure, or while it is so trespassing, or while driving it away
from his or her premises; provided that within 15 days thereafter, payment is
made for damages done to such animal by killing or injuring, less the actual
amount of damage done by such animal while so trespassing, or a sufficient sum
of money is deposited with the nearest judge of a county court or judge of a
municipal court having jurisdiction within such time to cover the damages. The
deposit shall remain in the custody of such judge until there is a
determination of the damage resulting from such killing or injury and from the
trespass. The judge and his or her bondsmen shall be responsible for the
safekeeping of such money and for the payment thereof as for money collected
upon a judgment.
(R.C. § 959.04)
§ 90.23 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS; CRUELTY TO COMPANION ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall:
      (1)   Torture an animal, deprive one of necessary sustenance,
unnecessarily or cruelly beat, needlessly mutilate or kill, or impound or
confine an animal without supplying it during the confinement with a sufficient
quantity of good wholesome food and water;
      (2)   Impound or confine an animal without affording it, during the
confinement, access to shelter from wind, rain, snow, or excessive direct
sunlight, if it can reasonably be expected that the animal would otherwise
become sick or in some other way suffer. This division does not apply to
animals impounded or confined prior to slaughter. For the purpose of this
section, SHELTER means an artificial enclosure, windbreak, sunshade, or natural
windbreak or sunshade that is developed from the earth's contour, tree
development, or vegetation;
      (3)   Carry or convey an animal in a cruel or inhuman manner;
      (4)   Keep animals other than cattle, poultry or fowl, swine, sheep, or
goats in an enclosure without wholesome exercise and change of air, nor feed
cows on food that produces impure or unwholesome milk;
      (5)   Detain livestock in railroad cars or compartments longer than 28
hours after they are so placed without supplying them with necessary food,
water, and attention, nor permit the stock to be so crowded as to overlie,
crush, wound, or kill each other.
   (B)   Upon the written request of the owner or person in custody of any
particular shipment of livestock, which written request shall be separate and
apart from any printed bill of lading or other railroad form, the length of
time in which the livestock may be detained in any cars or compartment without
food, water, and attention may be extended to 36 hours without penalty
therefor. Division (A) of this section does not prevent the dehorning of
cattle.
   (C)   All fines collected for violations of division (A) of this section
shall be paid to the society or association for the prevention of cruelty to
animals, if there is one in the municipality; otherwise, all fines shall be
paid to the general fund.
(R.C. § 959.13)
   (D)   Cruelty to companion animals.
      (1)   As used in this section:
         ANIMAL RESCUE FOR DOGS. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 956.01.
         BOARDING KENNEL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 956.01.
         CAPTIVE WHITE-TAILED DEER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1531.01.
         COMPANION ANIMAL. Means any animal that is kept inside a residential
dwelling and any dog or cat regardless of where it is kept, including a pet
store as defined in R.C. § 956.01. COMPANION ANIMAL does not include livestock
or any wild animal.
         CRUELTY, TORMENT, and TORTURE. Have the same meanings as in R.C. §
1717.01.
         DOG KENNEL. An animal rescue for dogs, a boarding kennel, or a
training kennel.
         FEDERAL ANIMAL WELFARE ACT. Means the “Laboratory Animal Act of 1966,”
Pub. L. No. 89-544, 80 Stat. 350 (1966), 7 U.S.C. §§ 2131 et seq., as amended
by the “Animal Welfare Act of 1970,” Pub. L. No. 91-579, 84 Stat. 1560 (1970),
the “Animal Welfare Act Amendments of 1976,” Pub. L. No. 94-279, 90 Stat. 417
(1976), and the “Food Security Act of 1985,” Pub. L. No. 99-198, 99 Stat. 1354
(1985), and as it may be subsequently amended.
         LIVESTOCK. Means horses, mules, and other equidae; cattle, sheep,
goats, and other bovidae; swine and other suidae; poultry; alpacas; llamas;
captive white-tailed deer; and any other animal that is raised or maintained
domestically for food or fiber.
         PRACTICE OF VETERINARY MEDICINE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
4741.01.
         RESIDENTIAL DWELLING. Means a structure or shelter or the portion of a
structure or shelter that is used by one or more humans for the purpose of a
habitation.
2017 S-10
         SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM. Means any of the following:
            1.   Physical harm that carries an unnecessary or unjustifiable
substantial risk of death;
            2.   Physical harm that involves either partial or total permanent
incapacity;
            3.   Physical harm that involves acute pain of a duration that
results in substantial suffering or that involves any degree of prolonged or
intractable pain.
         TRAINING KENNEL. Means an establishment operating for profit that
keeps, houses, and maintains dogs for the purpose of training the dogs in
return for a fee or other consideration.
         WILD ANIMAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1531.01.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly torture, torment, needlessly mutilate or
maim, cruelly beat, poison, needlessly kill, or commit an act of cruelty
against a companion animal.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly cause serious physical harm to a
companion animal.
      (4)   No person who confines or who is the custodian or caretaker of a
companion animal shall negligently do any of the following:
         (a)   Torture, torment, or commit an act of cruelty against the
companion animal;
         (b)   Deprive the companion animal of necessary sustenance or confine
the companion animal without supplying it during the confinement with
sufficient quantities of good, wholesome food and water if it can reasonably be
expected that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other way
as a result of or due to the deprivation or confinement;
         (c)   Impound or confine the companion animal without affording it,
during the impoundment or confinement, with access to shelter from heat, cold,
wind, rain, snow, or excessive direct sunlight if it can reasonably be expected
that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other way as a
result of or due to the lack of adequate shelter.
      (5)   No person who confines or who is the custodian or caretaker of a
companion animal shall recklessly deprive the companion animal of necessary
sustenance or confine the companion animal without supplying it during the
confinement with sufficient quantities of good, wholesome food and water.
      (6)   No owner, manager, or employee of a dog kennel who confines or is
the custodian or caretaker of a companion animal shall knowingly do any of the
following:
         (a)   Torture, torment, needlessly mutilate or maim, cruelly beat,
poison, needlessly kill, or commit an act of cruelty against the companion
animal;
         (b)   Deprive the companion animal of necessary sustenance or confine
the companion animal without supplying it during the confinement with
sufficient quantities of good, wholesome food and water if it is reasonably
expected that the companion animal would die or experience unnecessary or
unjustifiable pain or suffering as a result of the deprivation or confinement;
         (c)   Impound or confine the companion animal without affording it,
during the impoundment or confinement, with access to shelter from heat, cold,
wind, rain, snow, or excessive direct sunlight if it is reasonably expected
that the companion animal would die or experience unnecessary or unjustifiable
pain or suffering as a result of or due to the lack of adequate shelter.
      (7)   No owner, manager, or employee of a dog kennel who confines or is
the custodian or caretaker of a companion animal shall negligently do any of
the following:
         (a)   Torture, torment, or commit an act of cruelty against the
companion animal;
         (b)   Deprive the companion animal of necessary sustenance or confine
the companion animal without supplying it during the confinement with
sufficient quantities of good, wholesome food and water if it can reasonably be
expected that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other way
as a result of or due to the deprivation or confinement;
         (c)   Impound or confine the companion animal without affording it,
during the impoundment or confinement, with access to shelter from heat, cold,
wind, rain, snow, or excessive direct sunlight if it can reasonably be expected
that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other way as a
result of or due to the lack of adequate shelter.
      (8)   Divisions (D)(2), (D)(3), (D)(4), (D)(5), (D)(6), and (D)(7) of
this section do not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   A companion animal used in scientific research conducted by an
institution in accordance with the federal animal welfare act and related
regulations;
         (b)   The lawful practice of veterinary medicine by a person who has
been issued a license, temporary permit, or registration certificate to do so
under R.C. Chapter 4741;
         (c)   Dogs being used or intended for use for hunting or field trial
purposes, provided that the dogs are being treated in accordance with usual and
commonly accepted practices for the care of hunting dogs;
         (d)   The use of common training devices, if the companion animal is
being treated in accordance with usual and commonly accepted practices for the
training of animals;
         (e)   The administering of medicine to a companion animal that was
properly prescribed by a person who has been issued a license, temporary
permit, or registration certificate under R.C. Chapter 4741.
      (9)   Notwithstanding any section of the Ohio Revised Code that otherwise
provides for the distribution of fine moneys, the Clerk of Court shall forward
all fines the Clerk collects that are so imposed for any violation of this
division (D) to the Treasurer of the municipality, whose county humane society
or law enforcement agency is to be paid the fine money as determined under this
division. The Treasurer shall pay the fine moneys to the county humane society
or the county, township, municipal corporation, or state law enforcement agency
in this state that primarily was responsible for or involved in the
investigation and prosecution of the violation. If a county humane society
receives any fine moneys under this division, the county humane society shall
use the fine moneys either to provide the training that is required for humane
society agents under R.C. § 1717.061 or to provide additional training for
humane society agents.
(R.C. § 959.131)
   (E)   Notwithstanding any section of the Ohio Revised Code that otherwise
provides for the distribution of fine moneys, the Clerk of Court shall forward
all fines the Clerk collects that are so imposed for any violation of this
division (D) to the Treasurer of the municipality, whose county humane society
or law enforcement agency is to be paid the fine money as determined under this
division. The Treasurer shall pay the fine moneys to the county humane society
or the county, township, municipal corporation, or state law enforcement agency
in this state that primarily was responsible for or involved in the
investigation and prosecution of the violation. If a county humane society
receives any fine moneys under this division, the county humane society shall
use the fine moneys either to provide the training that is required for humane
agents under R.C. § 1717.06 or to provide additional training for humane
agents.
(R.C. § 959.99(D))
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (D)(2) or (D)(5) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree on a first offense and a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (D)(3) of this section is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (D)(4) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the second degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the
first degree on each subsequent offense.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D)(6) of this section is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (D)(7) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (6)   (a)   A court may order a person who is convicted of or pleads
guilty to a violation of division (D) of this section to forfeit to an
impounding agency, as defined in R.C. § 959.132, any or all of the companion
animals in that person’s ownership or care. The court also may prohibit or
place limitations on the person’s ability to own or care for any companion
animals for a specified or indefinite period of time.
         (b)   A court may order a person who is convicted of or pleads guilty
to a violation of division (A) of this section or division (D) of this section
to reimburse an impounding agency for the reasonably necessary costs incurred
by the agency for the care of a companion animal that the agency impounded as a
result of the investigation or prosecution of the violation, provided that the
costs were not otherwise paid under R.C. § 959.132.
      (7)   If a court has reason to believe that a person who is convicted of
or pleads guilty to a violation of division (D) of this section has a mental or
emotional disorder that contributed to the violation, the court may impose as a
community control sanction or as a condition of probation a requirement that
the offender undergo psychological evaluation or counseling. The court shall
order the offender to pay the costs of the evaluation or counseling.
(R.C. § 959.99(E))
Statutory reference:
   Impoundment of companion animals; notice and hearing, see R.C. § 959.132
§ 90.24 ANIMAL FIGHTS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do either of the following:
      (1)   Engage in cockfighting, bearbaiting, or pitting an animal against
another;
      (2)   Use, train, or possess any animal for seizing, detaining, or
maltreating a domestic animal.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly do either of the following:
      (1)   Be employed at cockfighting, bearbaiting, or pitting an animal
against another;
      (2)   Do any of the following regarding an event involving cockfighting,
bearbaiting, or pitting an animal against another:
         (a)   Wager money or anything else of value on the results of the
event;
         (b)   Pay money or give anything else of value in exchange for
admission to or being present at the event;
         (c)   Receive money or anything else of value in exchange for the
admission of another person to the event or for another person to be present at
the event;
         (d)   Use, possess, or permit or cause to be present at the event any
device or substance intended to enhance an animal’s ability to fight or to
inflict injury on another animal;
         (e)   Permit or cause a minor to be present at the event if any person
present at or involved with the event is conducting any of the activities
described in division (B)(1) or (B)(2)(a), (B)(2)(b), (B)(2)(c), or (B)(2)(d)
of this section.
   (C)   A person who knowingly witnesses cockfighting, bearbaiting, or an
event in which one animal is pitted against another when a violation of
division (B) of this section is occurring at the cockfighting, bearbaiting, or
event is an aider and abettor and has committed a violation of this division.
(R.C. § 959.15)
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) or (C) of this section is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 959.99(C), (I))
Statutory reference:
   Dogfighting, felony provisions, see R.C. § 959.16
§ 90.25 TRAPSHOOTING.
   (A)   Live birds or fowl shall not be used as targets in trapshooting.
(R.C. § 959.17)
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 959.99(C))
§ 90.26 LOUD DOG.
   No owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog shall permit or allow such dog to
annoy or disturb one or more of the inhabitants of this municipality by the
frequent or habitual howling, yelping, barking, or making of any other
unreasonably loud and disturbing noises of such character, intensity, and
duration as to disturb the peace, quiet and good order of the municipality. Any
person who shall allow any animal habitually to remain, be lodged or fed within
any dwelling, building, yard or enclosure owned or occupied by such person
shall be considered as keeping or harboring such animal.
(Ord. 2016-70, passed 10-5-16) Penalty, see §
90.99
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances generally, see
Chapter 93
§ 90.27 DOG TAGS.
   (A)   No owner of a dog, except a dog constantly confined to a dog kennel
registered under R.C. Chapter 955 or one licensed under R.C. Chapter 956, shall
fail to require the dog to wear, at all times, a valid tag issued in connection
with a certificate of registration. A dog found not wearing at any time a valid
tag shall be prima-facie evidence of lack of registration and shall subject any
dog found not wearing such a tag to impounding, sale, or destruction.
(R.C. § 955.10)
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section shall be guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 955.99(B))
§ 90.28 NUISANCE, DANGEROUS AND VICIOUS DOG DEFINED; TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP
CERTIFICATE; FORM STATING DOG'S PRIOR BEHAVIOR.
   (A)   As used in this section, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DANGEROUS DOG.
         (a)   A dog that, without provocation, and subject to division (b) of
this definition, has done any of the following:
            1.   Caused injury, other than killing or serious injury, to any
person;
            2.   Killed another dog;
            3.   Been the subject of a third or subsequent violation of R.C. §
955.22(C) or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
         (b)   “Dangerous dog” does not include a police dog that has caused
injury, other than killing or serious injury, to any person or has killed
another dog while the police dog is being used to assist one or more law
enforcement officers in the performance of their official duties.
      MENACING FASHION. A dog that would cause any person being chased or
approached to reasonably believe that the dog will cause physical injury to
that person.
      POLICE DOG. A dog that has been trained and may be used to assist one or
more law enforcement officers in the performance of their official duties.
      SERIOUS INJURY. Any of the following:
         (a)   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death;
         (b)   Any physical harm that involves a permanent incapacity, whether
partial or total, or a temporary, substantial incapacity;
         (c)   Any physical harm that involves a permanent disfigurement or a
temporary, serious disfigurement;
         (d)   Any physical harm that involves acute pain of a duration that
results in substantial suffering or any degree of prolonged or intractable
pain.
      VICIOUS DOG.
         (a)   A dog that, without provocation and subject to division (b) of
this definition, has killed or caused serious injury to any person.
         (b)   “Vicious dog” does not include either of the following:
            1.   A police dog that has killed or caused serious injury to any
person while the police dog is being used to assist one or more law enforcement
officers in the performance of their official duties;
            2.   A dog that has killed or caused serious injury to any person
while a person was committing or attempting to commit a trespass or other
criminal offense on the property of the owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog.
      WITHOUT PROVOCATION. A dog acts WITHOUT PROVOCATION when it was not
teased, tormented, or abused by a person, or it was not coming to the aid or
the defense of a person who was not engaged in illegal or criminal activity and
who was not using the dog as a means of carrying out such activity.
   (B)   Upon the transfer of ownership of any dog, the seller of the dog shall
give the buyer a transfer of ownership certificate that shall be signed by the
seller. The certificate shall contain the registration
number of the dog, the name of the seller, and a brief description of the dog.
Blank forms of the certificate may be obtained from the County Auditor. A
transfer of ownership shall be recorded by the Auditor upon presentation of a
transfer of ownership certificate that is signed by the former owner of a dog
and that is accompanied by a fee of $5.
   (C)   Prior to the transfer of ownership or possession of any dog, upon the
buyer's or other transferee's request, the seller or other transferor of the
dog shall give to the person a written notice relative to the behavior and
propensities of the dog.
   (D)   Within ten days after the transfer of ownership or possession of any
dog, if the seller or transferor of the dog has knowledge that the dog is a
dangerous dog, the seller or other transferor shall give to the buyer or
transferee, the Board of Health for the district in which the buyer or other
transferee resides, and the dog warden of the county in which the buyer or
other transferee resides a completed copy of a written form on which the seller
shall furnish the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the buyer or other transferee of the dog;
      (2)   The age, sex, color, breed and current registration number of the
dog;
      (3)   In addition, the seller shall answer the following questions which
shall be specifically stated on the form as follows:
         “Has the dog ever chased or attempted to attack or bite a person? If
yes, describe the incident(s) in which the behavior occurred.”
         “Has the dog ever bitten a person? If yes, describe the incident(s) in
which the behavior occurred.”
         “Has the dog ever seriously injured or killed a person? If yes,
describe the incident(s) in which the behavior occurred.”
      (4)   The dog warden of the county in which the seller resides furnishes
the form to the seller at no cost.
   (E)   No seller or other transferor of a dog shall fail to comply with the
applicable requirements of divisions (B) to (D) of this section.
(R.C. § 955.11)
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section because failure to
comply with division (B) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section because failure to
comply with division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor on a first offense and of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on
each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 955.99(A))
§ 90.29 FAILURE TO REGISTER DOG OR DOG KENNEL.
   (A)   No owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog more than three months of age,
nor owner of a dog kennel, shall fail to file an application for registration
required by R.C. § 955.01, nor shall he or she fail to pay the legal fee
therefor.
(R.C. § 955.21)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $25 nor
more than $100 on a first offense, and on each subsequent offense shall be
fined not less than $75 nor more than $250 and may be imprisoned for not more
than 30 days.
(R.C. § 955.99(E))
§ 90.30 HINDERING THE CAPTURE OF UNREGISTERED DOG.
   (A)   No person shall obstruct or interfere with anyone lawfully engaged in
capturing an unlicensed dog or making an examination of a dog wearing a tag.
(R.C. § 955.24)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 955.99(B))
   (C)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the hindrance,
obstruction, resistance, or interference alleged consisted of constitutionally
protected speech only.
§ 90.31 UNLAWFUL TAG.
   (A)   No person shall own, keep, or harbor a dog wearing a fictitious,
altered, or invalid registration tag or a registration tag not issued by the
County Auditor in connection with the registration of that animal.
(R.C. § 955.25)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 955.99(B))
§ 90.32 ASSISTANCE DOGS WITH BLIND, DEAF, OR HEARING IMPAIRED PERSON, OR PERSON
WITH A MOBILITY IMPAIRMENT, OR TRAINER.
   (A)   When a person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired, a person with a
mobility impairment, or a trainer of an assistance dog is accompanied by an
assistance dog, the person or trainer, as applicable, is entitled to the full
and equal accommodations, advantages, facilities, and privileges of all public
conveyances, hotels, and lodging places, all places of public accommodation,
amusement, or resort, and other places to which the general public is invited,
and may take the dog into such conveyances and places, subject only to the
conditions and limitations applicable to all persons not so accompanied, except
that:
      (1)   The dog shall not occupy a seat in any public conveyance; and
      (2)   The dog shall be leashed while using the facilities of a common
carrier.
      (3)   Any dog in training to become an assistance dog shall be covered by
a liability insurance policy provided by the nonprofit special agency engaged
in such work protecting members of the public against personal injury or
property damage caused by the dog.
   (B)   No person shall deprive a person who is blind, deaf, or hearing
impaired, a person who has a mobility impairment, or a trainer of an assistance
dog when the person or trainer, as applicable, is accompanied by an assistance
dog of any of the advantages, facilities, or privileges provided in division
(A) of this section, and no person shall charge the person or trainer a fee or
charge for the dog.
(R.C. § 955.43(A), (B))
   (C)   As used in this section:
      ASSISTANCE DOG. A dog that has been trained by a nonprofit or for-profit
special agency and that is one of the following:
         (a)   A guide dog;
         (b)   A hearing dog;
         (c)   A service dog.
      BLIND. Means either of the following:
         (a)   Vision 20/200 or less in the better eye with proper correction;
         (b)   Field defect in the better eye with proper correction that
contracts the peripheral field so that the diameter of the visual field
subtends an angle no greater than 20 degrees.
      GUIDE DOG. Means a dog that has been trained or is in training to assist
a blind person.
      HEARING DOG. Means a dog that has been trained or is in training to
assist a deaf or hearing-impaired person.
      INSTITUTIONS OF EDUCATION. Means:
         (a)   Any state university or college as defined in R.C. § 3345.32;
         (b)   Any private college or university that holds a certificate of
authorization issued by the Ohio Board of Regents pursuant to R.C. Chapter
1713;
         (c)   Any elementary or secondary school operated by a board of
education;
         (d)   Any chartered or nonchartered nonpublic elementary or secondary
school; or
         (e)   Any school issued a certificate of registration by the state
Board of Career Colleges and Schools.
      PERSON WITH A MOBILITY IMPAIRMENT. Any person, regardless of age, who is
subject to a physiological impairment regardless of its cause, nature, or
extent that renders the person unable to move about without the aid of
crutches, a wheelchair, or any other form of support, or that limits the
person's functional ability to ambulate, climb, descend, sit, rise, or perform
any related function. The phrase includes a person with a neurological or
psychological disability that limits the person's functional ability to
ambulate, climb, descend, sit, rise, or perform any related function. The
phrase also includes a person with a seizure disorder and a person who is
diagnosed with autism.
      SERVICE DOG. Means a dog that has been trained or is in training to
assist a person with a mobility impairment.
(R.C. §§ 955.011(B), 955.43(C))
Cross-reference:
   Assaulting assistance dog, see §
136.15
§ 90.33 RETAIL SALE AND TRANSPORTATION OF DOGS.
   (A)   No person shall sell, offer to sell, or expose for sale to the general
public at retail any dog under the age of eight weeks.
   (B)   No person shall receive or ship, for sale to the general public at
retail, any dog that is not accompanied by a certificate, issued by a licensed
veterinarian who is accredited by the United States Department of Agriculture
and authorized to issue health certificates for animals in interstate commerce,
certifying that the dog is sufficiently sound and healthy to be reasonably
expected to withstand the intended transportation without adverse effect.
   (C)   This section does not apply to the transportation of dogs in
interstate commerce by common carrier, provided that neither the point of
shipment nor the point of receiving is within this state.
   (D)   No person responsible for the transportation of a pregnant dog shall
be liable in damages for any injury or illness of, or the death of, the dog or
any puppies, whenever the injuries, illness or death results from the birth of
such puppies during the time the dog is being transported.
(R.C. § 955.50)
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor for a
first offense; each subsequent offense is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 955.99(C))
§ 90.34 COLORING RABBITS OR BABY POULTRY; REGULATION OF SALE AND DISPLAY.
   (A)   No person shall dye or otherwise color any rabbit or baby poultry,
including, but not limited to, chicks and ducklings. No person shall sell,
offer for sale, expose for sale, raffle or give away any rabbit or baby poultry
which has been dyed or otherwise colored. No poultry younger than four weeks of
age may be sold, given away or otherwise distributed to any person in lots of
less than three. Stores, shops, vendors and others offering young poultry for
sale or other distribution shall provide and operate brooders or other heating
devices that may be necessary to maintain poultry in good health, and shall
keep adequate food and water available to the poultry at all times.
(R.C. § 925.62)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree on a first offense; each subsequent offense is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
(R.C. § 925.99(B))
§ 90.35 JACKLIGHTING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall throw or cast the rays of a spotlight or other
artificial light from any vehicle into any field, woodland, or forest while
having in his or her possession a hunting device, or throw or cast the rays of
a spotlight or other artificial light from any vehicle into any field,
woodland, or forest for the purpose of locating a wild animal.
   (B)   This section does not apply to law enforcement officers, wildlife
officers, military personnel, and officers or employees of the Department of
Natural Resources while in the performance of their duties, or to any landowner
or lessee having a reason to use a light while engaged in surveillance or
protection of his or her property.
   (C)   An officer whose duty it is to enforce this chapter may arrest a
person whom he or she has reasonable grounds to believe is violating this
section, search the vehicle for firearms or other hunting implements in the
possession or under the control of that person, and seize the same.
(R.C. § 1533.161)
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 1533.99(B))
§ 90.36 HUNTING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The hunting of animals or fowl within the municipality is prohibited.
No person shall hunt, kill or attempt to kill any animal or fowl by the use of
firearms or any other means. However, nothing in this section shall be deemed
to prohibit the killing of rats and other undesirable rodents authorized to be
killed by the Chief of Police using means for such killing which are also
authorized by the Chief.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
Punishment shall be as provided in §
90.99.
§ 90.37 NUISANCE CONDITIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall keep or harbor any animal or fowl in the municipality
so as to create noxious or offensive odors or unsanitary conditions which are a
menace to the health, comfort or safety of the public.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
Punishment shall be as provided in §
90.99.
§ 90.38 RESTRICTIONS ON DOG OWNERSHIP FOR CERTAIN CONVICTED FELONS.
   (A)   No person who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a felony offense of
violence committed on or after May 22, 2012 or a felony violation of any
provision of R.C. Chapter 959, R.C. Chapter 2923 or R.C. Chapter 2925 committed
on or after May 22, 2012 shall knowingly own, possess, have custody of, or
reside in a residence with either of the following for a period of three years
commencing either upon the date of release of the person from any period of
incarceration imposed for the offense or violation or, if the person is not
incarcerated for the offense or violation, upon the date of the person’s final
release from the other sanctions imposed for the offense or violation:
      (1)   An unspayed or unneutered dog older than 12 weeks of age;
      (2)   Any dog that has been determined to be a dangerous dog under R.C.
Chapter 955 or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (B)   A person described in division (A) of this section shall microchip for
permanent identification any dog owned, possessed by, or in the custody of the
person.
   (C)   (1)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any person who is
confined in a correctional institution of the Department of Rehabilitation and
Correction.
      (2)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any person with
respect to any dog that the person owned, possessed, had custody of, or resided
in a residence with prior to May 22, 2012.
(R.C. § 955.54)
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) or (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 955.99(O))
§ 90.39 SEXUAL CONDUCT WITH AN ANIMAL.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ANIMAL. Means a nonhuman mammal, bird, reptile, or amphibian, either dead
or alive.
      OFFENSE. Means a violation of this section or an attempt, in violation of
R.C. § 2923.02, to violate this section.
      OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 959.132.
      SEXUAL CONDUCT. Means either of the following committed for the purpose
of sexual gratification:
         (a)   Any act done between a person and animal that involves contact
of the penis of one and the vulva of the other, the penis of one and the penis
of the other, the penis of one and the anus of the other, the mouth of one and
the penis of the other, the mouth of one and the anus of the other, the vulva
of one and the vulva of the other, the mouth of one and the vulva of the other,
any other contact between a reproductive organ of one and a reproductive organ
of the other, or any other insertion of a reproductive organ of one into an
orifice of the other;
         (b)   Without a bona fide veterinary or animal husbandry purpose to do
so, the insertion, however slight, of any part of a person’s body or any
instrument, apparatus, or other object into the vaginal, anal, or reproductive
opening of an animal.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly engage in sexual conduct with an animal or
knowingly possess, sell, or purchase an animal with the intent that it be
subjected to sexual conduct.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly organize, promote, aid, or abet in the
conduct of an act involving any sexual conduct with an animal.
(R.C. § 959.21)
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
second degree. In addition, the court may order the offender to forfeit the
animal or livestock and may provide for its disposition including but not
limited to the sale of the animal or livestock. If an animal or livestock is
forfeited and sold pursuant to this division, the proceeds from the sale first
shall be applied to pay the expenses incurred with regard to the care of the
animal from the time it was taken from the custody of the former owner. The
balance of the proceeds from the sale, if any, shall be paid to the former
owner of the animal.
(R.C. § 959.99(D))
      (2)   If a court has reason to believe that a person who is convicted of
or pleads guilty to a violation of this section suffers from a mental or
emotional disorder that contributed to the violation, the court may impose as a
community control sanction or as a condition of probation a requirement that
the offender undergo psychological evaluation or counseling. The court shall
order the offender to pay the costs of the evaluation or counseling.
(R.C. § 959.99(E)(7))
§ 90.40 FEEDING OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall provide food for dogs, cats, feral cats, deer, geese,
ducks, raccoons, fowl or other wild animals (as defined in R.C. § 1531.01) by
setting food outside on (i) any public property or right-of-way, (ii) the real
property of another person, (iii) any property on which a business is located,
or (iv) within a 100-yard radius of any private residence. This section does
not apply to animals owned by that person as pets, or song birds fed from a
stationary bird feeder.
   (B)   Any cat that is wild, stray or un-owned shall be considered feral. A
domestic cat turned wild, which means that it generally lives outdoors, is
free-roaming and has little to no socialization with humans, shall be
considered feral. Feral cats shall not be considered pets for the purposes of
this section.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor,
punishable by a fine of not more than $150.
(Ord. 2024-46, passed 7-2-24)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another penalty is
not specifically provided shall be subject to the penalty as provided in §
10.99.
CHAPTER 91: FIREWORKS, EXPLOSIVES, FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Possession, sale, and use of fireworks
   
91.03   Permit to use fireworks
   
91.04   Manufacturing or wholesale sale without a license; prohibitions
   
91.05   Purchasers to comply with law; unauthorized purchases
   
91.06   Exhibition without a license; prohibitions for exhibitions
   
91.07   Unauthorized transportation or shipping
   
91.08   Application of subchapter
   
91.09   Arrest of offender; seizure and forfeiture of fireworks; distribution
of fines
Explosives
   
91.20   Storage of explosives
   
91.21   Blasting permit
   
91.22   Codes adopted, identity, purpose
   
91.23   Enforcement: responsibilities of municipal fire safety inspector
   
91.24   Compliance required
   
91.25   Setting fires which spread
   
91.26   Responsibilities upon discovery of unfriendly fires
   
91.27   Inspections, permits and fees
   
91.28   File and distribution copies
   
91.29   Conflict of laws
Fire Prevention
   
91.30   Removal of flammable materials or obstructions
   
91.31   Protective appliances
   
91.32   Compliance with order
   
91.33   Waste receptacles
Open Burning
   
91.50   Open burning
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Failure to secure dangerous ordnance, see §
137.06
   Fire Department, see
Chapter 35
   Fire Engineer, see § 31.53
   License to possess dangerous ordnance, see §
137.10
   Vehicles carrying explosives, see §
74.36
Statutory reference:
   Fire Marshal, fire safety, see R.C. Chapter 3737
   Fireworks, state law provisions, see R.C. Chapter 3743
   Ohio Fire Code, see O.A.C. Chapter 1301:7-7
   Open burning, see O.A.C. Chapter 3745-19
   Power to regulate explosives, see R.C. § 715.60
FIREWORKS
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   1.3G FIREWORKS. Display fireworks consistent with regulations of the United
States Department of Transportation as expressed using the designation
“Division 1.3" in Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
   1.4G FIREWORKS. Consumer fireworks consistent with regulations of the United
States Department of Transportation as expressed using the designation
“Division 1.4" in Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
   BEER and INTOXICATING LIQUOR. Have the same meaning as in R.C. § 4301.01.
   BOOBY TRAP. A small tube that has a string protruding from both ends that
has a friction-sensitive composition and that is ignited by pulling the ends of
the string.
   CIGARETTE LOAD. A small wooden peg that is coated with a small quantity of
explosive composition and that is ignited in a cigarette.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   DISCHARGE SITE. An area immediately surrounding the mortars used to fire
aerial shells.
   FIREWORKS. Any composition or device prepared for the purpose of producing a
visible or an audible effect by combustion, deflagration, or detonation, except
ordinary matches and except as provided in R.C. § 3743.80.
   FIREWORKS INCIDENT. Any action or omission that occurs at a fireworks
exhibition that results in injury or death, or a substantial risk of injury or
death, to any person, and that involves either of the following:
      (1)   The handling or other use, or the results of the handling or other
use, of fireworks or associated equipment or other materials;
      (2)   The failure of any person to comply with any applicable requirement
imposed by this chapter or R.C. Chapter 3743, or any applicable rule adopted
under this chapter or R.C. Chapter 3743.
   FIREWORKS INCIDENT SITE. A discharge site or other location at a fireworks
exhibition where a fireworks incident occurs, a location where an injury or
death associated with a fireworks incident occurs, or a location where evidence
of a fireworks incident or an injury or death associated with a fireworks
incident is found
   FIREWORKS PLANT. All buildings and other structures in which the
manufacturing of fireworks, or the storage or sale of manufactured fireworks by
a manufacturer, takes place.
   FOUNTAIN DEVICE. Means a specific type of 1.4G firework that meets all of
the following criteria:
      (1)   It is nonaerial and nonreport producing.
      (2)   It is recognized and manufactured in accordance with sections 3.1.1
and 3.5 of APA standard 87-1 (2001 edition).
      (3)   It is a ground-based or hand-held sparkler with one or more tubes
containing a nonexplosive pyrotechnic mixture that produces a shower of sparks
upon ignition, with or without additional effects that may include a colored
flame, audible crackling effect, audible whistle effect, or smoke.
      (4)   It contains not more than 75 grams of the nonexplosive pyrotechnic
mixture in any individual tube and not more than 500 grams or less for multiple
tubes.
   HIGHWAY. Any public street, road, alley, way, lane or other public
thoroughfare.
   LICENSED BUILDING. A building on the licensed premises of a licensed
manufacturer or wholesaler of fireworks that is approved for occupancy by the
building official having jurisdiction.
   LICENSED EXHIBITOR OF FIREWORKS or LICENSED EXHIBITOR. A person licensed
pursuant to R.C. §§ 3743.50 through 3743.55.
   LICENSED FOUNTAIN DEVICE RETAILER or LICENSED RETAILER. Means a person
licensed pursuant to R.C. § 3743.26.
   LICENSED MANUFACTURER OF FIREWORKS or LICENSED MANUFACTURER. A person
licensed pursuant to R.C. §§ 3743.02 through 3743.08.
   LICENSED PREMISES. The real estate upon which a licensed manufacturer or
wholesaler of fireworks conducts business.
   LICENSED WHOLESALER OF FIREWORKS or LICENSED WHOLESALER. A person licensed
pursuant to R.C. §§ 3743.15 through 3743.21.
   LIST OF LICENSED EXHIBITORS. The list required by R.C. § 3743.51(C).
   LIST OF LICENSED MANUFACTURERS. The list required by R.C. § 3743.03(C).
   LIST OF LICENSED WHOLESALERS. The list required by R.C. § 3743.16(C).
   MANUFACTURING OF FIREWORKS. The making of fireworks from raw materials, none
of which in and of themselves constitute fireworks, or the processing of
fireworks.
   NAVIGABLE WATERS. Any body of water susceptible of being used in its
ordinary condition as a highway of commerce over which trade and travel is or
may be conducted in the customary modes, but does not include a body of water
that is not capable of navigation by barges, tugboats, and other large vessels.
   NOVELTIES and TRICK NOISEMAKERS.
      (1)   Devices that produce a small report intended to surprise the user,
including but not limited to booby traps, cigarette loads, party poppers, and
snappers;
      (2)   Snakes or glow worms;
      (3)   Smoke devices;
      (4)   Trick matches.
   PARTY POPPER. A small plastic or paper item that contains not more than 16
milligrams of friction-sensitive explosive composition that is ignited by
pulling a string protruding from the item, and from which paper streamers are
expelled when the item is ignited.
   PROCESSING OF FIREWORKS. The making of fireworks from materials all or part
of which in and of themselves constitute fireworks, but does not include the
mere packaging or repackaging of fireworks.
   RAILROAD. Any railway or railroad that carries freight or passengers for
hire, but does not include auxiliary tracks, spurs, and sidings installed and
primarily used in serving a mine, quarry or plant.
   RETAIL SALE or SELL AT RETAIL. A sale of fireworks to a purchaser who
intends to use the fireworks and not to resell them.
   SMOKE DEVICE. A tube or sphere that contains pyrotechnic composition that,
upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
   SNAKE or GLOW WORM. A device that consists of a pressed pellet of
pyrotechnic composition that produces a large snake-like ash upon burning,
which ash expands in length as the pellet burns.
   SNAPPER. A small paper-wrapped item that contains a minute quantity of
explosive composition coated on small bits of sand and that, when dropped,
implodes.
   STORAGE LOCATION. A single parcel or contiguous parcels of real estate
approved by the Ohio Fire Marshal pursuant to R.C. § 3743.04(I) or R.C. §
3743.17(F) that are separate from a licensed premises containing a retail
showroom, and which parcel or parcels a licensed manufacturer or wholesaler of
fireworks may use only for the distribution, possession, and storage of
fireworks in accordance with this chapter.
   TRICK MATCH. A kitchen or book match that is coated with a small quantity of
explosive composition and that, upon ignition, produces a small report or a
shower of sparks.
   WHOLESALE SALE or SELL AT WHOLESALE. A sale of fireworks to a purchaser who
intends to resell the fireworks so purchased.
   WIRE SPARKLER. A sparkler consisting of a wire or stick coated with a
nonexplosive pyrotechnic mixture that produces a shower of sparks upon ignition
and that contains no more than 100 grams of this mixture.
(R.C. § 3743.01)
§ 91.02 POSSESSION, SALE, AND USE OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   No person shall possess fireworks in this municipality or shall
possess for sale or sell fireworks in this municipality, except a licensed
manufacturer of fireworks as authorized by R.C. §§ 3743.02 to 3743.08, a
licensed wholesaler of fireworks as authorized by R.C. §§ 3743.15 to 3743.21, a
shipping permit holder as authorized by R.C. § 3743.40, a licensed fountain
device retailer as authorized by R.C. § 3743.27, a person as authorized by R.C.
§§ 3743.44 and 3743.45, or a licensed exhibitor of fireworks as authorized by
R.C. §§ 3743.50 to 3743.55, or as authorized by any municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to any of these statutes, and except as provided in
R.C. § 3743.80 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (H), R.C. §§ 3743.45 and 3743.80 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and except for licensed
exhibitors of fireworks authorized to conduct a fireworks exhibition pursuant
to R.C. §§ 3743.50 through 3743.55 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, no person shall discharge, ignite, or explode any fireworks in this
municipality. Pursuant to R.C. § 3743.45(D)(2), this prohibition applies
throughout the year to ban the discharge, ignition, or explosion of all
fireworks purchased pursuant to R.C. § 3743.45, including on those dates set
forth in R.C. § 3743.45(B).
   (C)   No person shall use in a theater or public hall what is technically
known as fireworks showers, or a mixture containing potassium chlorate and
sulphur.
   (D)   No person shall sell fireworks of any kind to a person under 18 years
of age. No person under 18 years of age shall enter a fireworks sales showroom
unless that person is accompanied by a parent, legal guardian, or other
responsible adult. No person under 18 years of age shall touch or possess
fireworks on a licensed premises without the consent of the licensee. A
licensee may eject any person from a licensed premises that is in any way
disruptive to the safe operation of the premises.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 3743.44, no person, other than
a licensed manufacturer, licensed wholesaler, licensed exhibitor, or shipping
permit holder shall possess 1.3G fireworks in this municipality.
   (F)   No person shall negligently discharge, ignite, or explode fireworks
while in possession or control of, or under the influence of, any intoxicating
liquor, beer, or controlled substance.
   (G)   No person shall negligently discharge, ignite, or explode fireworks on
the property of another person without that person’s permission to use
fireworks on that property.
(R.C. § 3743.65(A) - (E), (G), (H))
   (H)   Purchase, use, and local regulation of consumer-grade fireworks.
      (1)   Any person who intends to obtain possession in this state of 1.4G
fireworks purchased in this state shall obtain possession of the 1.4G fireworks
only from a licensed retailer, licensed manufacturer, or licensed wholesaler
and shall be subject to this division (H).
      (2)   Any person authorized under this division (H) to possess 1.4G
fireworks in this state may discharge, ignite, or explode those fireworks on
private property, with authorization from the property owner, on the following
days each year:
         (a)   January 1st;
         (b)   Chinese new year’s day;
         (c)   May 5th;
         (d)   The last Monday in May, and the Saturday and Sunday immediately
preceding that day;
         (e)   June 19th;
         (f)   July 3rd, 4th, and 5th;
         (g)   The first Friday, Saturday, and Sunday before and after July
4th;
         (h)   The first Monday of September, and the Saturday and Sunday
immediately preceding that day;
         (i)   Diwali;
         (j)   December 31st.
      (3)   Fireworks discharged, ignited, or exploded pursuant to this
division (H) shall not be considered a public exhibition.
      (4)   The municipality may do either of the following:
         (a)   Restrict the dates and times a person may discharge, ignite, or
explode fireworks purchased pursuant to this division (H).
         (b)   Ban the discharge, ignition, or explosion of fireworks purchased
pursuant to this division (H).
      (5)   This division (H) does not limit the enforcement of any ordinance,
resolution, or statute that regulates noise, disturbance of the peace, or
disorderly conduct.
(R.C. § 3743.45) (Ord. 2022-41, passed 6-1-22) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Felony offense for disabling a fire suppression system, see R.C. § 3743.65
(F)
§ 91.03 PERMIT TO USE FIREWORKS.
   (A)   An exhibitor of fireworks licensed under R.C. §§ 3743.50 through
3743.55 who wishes to conduct a public fireworks exhibition shall apply for
approval to conduct the exhibition to the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer
and to the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or the
designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer,
having jurisdiction over the premises.
   (B)   The approval required by division (A) of this section shall be
evidenced by the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and by the Police Chief
or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or the designee of the Police
Chief or similar chief law enforcement officer, signing a permit for the
exhibition. Any exhibitor of fireworks who wishes to conduct a public fireworks
exhibition may obtain a copy of the form from the State Fire Marshal or, if
available, from the Fire Chief, a fire prevention officer, the Police Chief or
other similar chief law enforcement officer, or a designee of the Police Chief
or other similar chief law enforcement officer.
   (C)   Before a permit is signed and issued to a licensed exhibitor of
fireworks, the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer, in consultation with the
Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or the designee of
the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, shall inspect
the premises on which the exhibition will take place and shall determine that,
in fact, the applicant for the permit is a licensed exhibitor of fireworks.
Each applicant shall show his or her license as an exhibitor of fireworks to
the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer.
   (D)   The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and the Police Chief or
other similar chief law enforcement officer, or the designee of the Police
Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, shall give approval to
conduct a public fireworks exhibition only if satisfied, based on the
inspection, that the premises on which the exhibition will be conducted allow
the exhibitor to comply with the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal
pursuant to R.C. § 3743.53(B) and (E) and that the applicant is, in fact, a
licensed exhibitor of fireworks. The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer, in
consultation with the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement
officer or with the designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief law
enforcement officer, may inspect the premises immediately prior to the
exhibition to determine if the exhibitor has complied with the rules, and may
revoke a permit for noncompliance with the rules.
   (E)   If the legislative authority has prescribed a fee for the issuance of
a permit for a public fireworks exhibition, the Fire Chief or fire prevention
officer and Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or
their designee, shall not issue a permit until the exhibitor pays the requisite
fee.
   (F)   Each exhibitor shall provide an indemnity bond in the amount of at
least one million dollars with surety satisfactory to the Fire Chief or fire
prevention officer and to the Police Chief or other similar chief law
enforcement officer, or the designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief
law enforcement officer, conditioned for the payment of all final judgments
that may be rendered against the exhibitor on account of injury, death, or loss
to person or property emanating from the fireworks exhibitor, or proof of
insurance coverage of at least one million dollars for liability arising from
injury, death, or loss of persons or property emanating from the fireworks
exhibition. The legislative authority may require the exhibitor to provide an
indemnity bond or proof of insurance coverage in amounts greater than those
required by this division. The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and Police
Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or their designee, shall
not issue a permit until the exhibitor provides the bond or proof of the
insurance coverage required by this division or by the legislative authority.
   (G)   Each permit for a fireworks exhibition issued by the Fire Chief or
fire prevention officer and by the Police Chief or other similar chief law
enforcement officer, or the designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief
law enforcement officer, shall contain a distinct number, designate the
municipality, and identify the certified fire safety inspector, Fire Chief, or
fire prevention officer who will be present before, during and after the
exhibition, where appropriate. A copy of each permit issued shall be forwarded
by the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and by the Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, or designee of the Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, issuing it to the State Fire Marshal. A
permit is not transferable or assignable.
   (H)   The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, or designee of the Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, shall keep a record of issued permits
for fireworks exhibitions. In this list, the Fire Chief, fire prevention
officer, Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or
designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer,
shall list the name of the exhibitor, his or her license number, the premises
on which the exhibition will be conducted, the date and time of the exhibition,
and the number and political subdivision designation of the permit issued to
the exhibitor for the exhibition.
   (I)   The legislative authority shall require that a certified fire safety
inspector, Fire Chief or fire prevention officer be present before, during and
after the exhibition, and shall require the certified fire safety inspector,
Fire Chief or fire prevention officer to inspect the premises where the
exhibition is to take place and determine whether the exhibition is in
compliance with this chapter and R.C. Chapter 3743.
(R.C. § 3743.54) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Notice of fireworks incident, see R.C. § 3743.541
§ 91.04 MANUFACTURING OR WHOLESALE SALE WITHOUT A LICENSE; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No licensed manufacturer or licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall
knowingly fail to comply with the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal
pursuant to R.C. §§ 3743.05 and 3743.18 or the requirements of R.C. §§ 3743.06
and 3743.19.
   (B)   No licensed manufacturer or licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall
fail to maintain complete inventory, wholesale sale and retail records as
required by R.C. §§ 3743.07 and 3743.20, or to permit an inspection of these
records or the premises of a fireworks plant or the wholesaler pursuant to R.C.
§§ 3743.08 and 3743.21.
   (C)   No licensed manufacturer or licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall
fail to comply with an order of the State Fire Marshal issued pursuant to R.C.
§§ 3743.01(B)(1) and 3743.21(B)(1) within the specified period of time.
   (D)   No licensed manufacturer or licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall
fail to comply with an order of the State Fire Marshal issued pursuant to R.C.
§§ 3743.08(B)(2) and 3743.21(B)(2) until the nonconformities are eliminated,
corrected or otherwise remedied or the 72 hour period specified in those
divisions has expired, whichever occurs first.
   (E)   No person shall smoke or shall carry a pipe, cigarette, or cigar, or a
match, lighter, other flame- producing item, or open flame on, or shall carry a
concealed source of ignition into, the premises of a fireworks plant or on the
premises of a wholesaler of fireworks, except as smoking is authorized in
specified lunchrooms or restrooms by a manufacturer or wholesaler pursuant to
R.C. § 3743.06(C) or R.C. § 3743.19(D).
   (F)   No person shall have possession or control of, or be under the
influence of, any intoxicating liquor, beer, or controlled substance while on
the premises of the fireworks plant or on the premises of a wholesaler of
fireworks.
   (G)   No licensed manufacturer of fireworks or licensed wholesaler of
fireworks shall negligently fail to furnish a safety pamphlet to a purchaser of
1.4G fireworks as required by R.C. § 3743.47(A).
   (H)   No licensed manufacturer of fireworks or licensed wholesaler of
fireworks shall negligently fail to have safety glasses available for sale as
required by R.C. § 3743.47(B).
(R.C. §§ 3743.60(E) - (L), 3743.61(E) - (L)) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Felony provisions, see R.C. §§ 3743.60(A) through (D) and 3743.61(A) through
(D)
§ 91.05 PURCHASERS TO COMPLY WITH LAW; UNAUTHORIZED PURCHASES.
   (A)   No person who purchases fireworks in this municipality shall obtain
possession of the fireworks in this municipality unless the person complies
with R.C. §§ 3743.44 to 3743.46.
   (B)   Except for the purchase of 1.4G fireworks made under R.C. § 3743.45,
no person who resides in another state and who purchases fireworks in this
state shall obtain possession of fireworks in this state other than from a
licensed manufacturer or wholesaler, or fail, when transporting 1.3G fireworks,
to transport them directly out of this state within 72 hours after the time of
their purchase.
   (C)   No person who purchases fireworks in this state under R.C. § 3743.45
shall give or sell to any other person in this municipality fireworks that the
person has acquired in this state.
(R.C. § 3743.63) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 EXHIBITION WITHOUT A LICENSE; PROHIBITIONS FOR EXHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall fail to comply with the
applicable requirements of the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal pursuant
to R.C. § 3743.53(B) and (E) or to comply with R.C. § 3743.53(C) and (D).
   (B)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall conduct a fireworks
exhibition unless a permit has been secured for the exhibition pursuant to R.C.
§ 3743.54 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or if a permit so
secured is revoked by a Fire Chief or fire prevention officer, in consultation
with a Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or with a
designee of a Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer,
pursuant to those sections.
   (C)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall acquire fireworks for use at
a fireworks exhibition other than in accordance with R.C. §§ 3743.54 and
3743.55, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks or other person associated with the
conduct of a fireworks exhibition shall have possession or control of, or be
under the influence of, any intoxicating liquor, beer, or controlled substance
while on the premises on which the exhibition is being conducted.
   (E)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall permit an employee to assist
the licensed exhibitor in conducting fireworks exhibitions unless the employee
is registered with the State Fire Marshal under R.C. § 3743.56.
(R.C. § 3743.64(C) - (G)) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Felony provisions, see R.C. § 3743.64(A), (B), and (H)
   Notice of fireworks incident, see R.C. § 3743.541
§ 91.07 UNAUTHORIZED TRANSPORTATION OR SHIPPING.
   (A)   No person shall transport fireworks in this municipality except in
accordance with the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal pursuant to R.C. §
3743.58.
   (B)   As used in this division, FIREWORKS includes only 1.3G and 1.4G
fireworks. No person shall ship fireworks into this municipality by mail,
parcel post, or common carrier unless the person possesses a valid shipping
permit issued under R.C. § 3743.40, and the fireworks are shipped directly to
the holder of a license issued under R.C. § 3743.03, 3743.16 or 3743.51.
   (C)   No person shall ship fireworks within this municipality by mail,
parcel post, or common carrier unless the fireworks are shipped directly to the
holder of a license issued under R.C. § 3743.01, 3743.16 or 3743.51.
(R.C. § 3743.66) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 APPLICATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   This subchapter does not apply to the following:
   (A)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage, or use in
emergency situations of pyrotechnic signaling devices and distress signals for
marine, aviation, or highway use;
   (B)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use of
fusees, torpedoes, or other signals necessary for the safe operation of
railroads;
   (C)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use of
blank cartridges in connection with theaters or shows, or in connection with
athletics as signals for ceremonial purposes;
   (D)   The manufacture for, the transportation, storage, possession or use
by, or the sale to the armed forces of the United States and the militia of
this state, as recognized by the Adjutant General of Ohio, of pyrotechnic
devices;
   (E)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use of
toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other devices in which paper or plastic
caps containing .025 grains or less of explosive material are used, provided
that they are constructed so that a hand cannot come into contact with a cap
when it is in place for explosion, or apply to the manufacture, sale,
possession, transportation, storage or use of those caps;
   (F)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use of
novelties and trick noisemakers, auto burglar alarms, or model rockets and
model rocket motors designed, sold, and used for the purpose of propelling
recoverable aero models;
   (G)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use of
wire sparklers.
   (H)   The conduct of radio-controlled special effect exhibitions that use an
explosive black powder charge of not more than one-quarter pound per charge,
and that are not connected in any manner to propellant charges; provided, that
the exhibition complies with all of the following:
      (1)   No explosive aerial display is conducted in the exhibition;
      (2)   The exhibition is separated from spectators by not less than 200
feet;
      (3)   The person conducting the exhibition complies with regulations of
the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms of the United States Department of
the Treasury and the United States Department of Transportation with respect to
the storage and transport of the explosive black powder used in the exhibition.
(R.C. § 3743.80)
§ 91.09 ARREST OF OFFENDER; SEIZURE AND FORFEITURE OF FIREWORKS; DISTRIBUTION
OF FINES.
   (A)   The Fire Marshal, an assistant fire marshal, or a certified fire
safety inspector may arrest, or may cause the arrest of, any person whom he or
she finds in the act of violating, or who he or she has reasonable cause to
believe has violated, any provision of this subchapter. Any arrest shall be
made in accordance with statutory and constitutional provisions governing
arrests by law enforcement officers.
   (B)   If the Fire Marshal, an assistant fire marshal, or certified fire
safety inspector has probable cause to believe that fireworks are being
manufactured, sold, possessed, transported, or used in violation of this
subchapter, he or she may seize the fireworks. Any seizure of fireworks shall
be made in accordance with statutory and constitutional provisions governing
searches and seizures by law enforcement officers. The Fire Marshal's office or
certified fire safety inspector's office shall impound at the site or safely
keep seized fireworks pending the time they are no longer needed as evidence. A
sample of the seized fireworks is sufficient for evidentiary purposes. The
remainder of the seized fireworks may be disposed of pursuant to an order from
a court of competent jurisdiction after notice and a hearing.
   (C)   Fireworks manufactured, sold, possessed, transported, or used in
violation of this subchapter shall be forfeited by the offender. The Fire
Marshal's office or certified fire safety inspector's office shall dispose of
seized fireworks pursuant to the procedures specified in R.C. §§ 2981.11 to
2981.13 for the disposal of forfeited property by law enforcement agencies, and
the Fire Marshal or that office is not liable for claims for the loss of or
damages to the seized fireworks.
   (D)   This section does not affect the authority of peace officers, as
defined in R.C. § 2935.01, to make arrests for violations of this subchapter or
to seize fireworks manufactured, sold, possessed, transported, or used in
violation of this subchapter.
   (E)   Any fines imposed for a violation of this subchapter relating to the
sale, purchase, possession, or discharge of fireworks shall be distributed as
set forth in R.C. § 3743.68(D).
(R.C. § 3743.68)
EXPLOSIVES
§ 91.20 STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES.
   It shall be unlawful to store at any time within the municipality a quantity
of gunpowder or other similar explosive weighing in excess of 100 pounds.
Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Illegal manufacture or processing of explosives, felony provisions, see R.C.
§ 2923.17
§ 91.21 BLASTING PERMIT.
   No person shall cause a blast to occur within the municipality without
making application in writing beforehand, setting forth the exact nature of the
intended operation, and receiving a permit to blast from the Mayor or other
proper municipal officer. The Mayor or other proper municipal officer before
granting such permit may require the applicant to provide a bond to indemnify
the municipality and all other persons against injury or damages which might
result from the proposed blasting.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.22 CODES ADOPTED, IDENTITY, PURPOSE.
   (A)   Pursuant to R.C. § 731.231, there is hereby adopted by the village the
2011 edition of the Ohio Fire Code (OFC), as adopted by the Ohio Department of
Commerce, Division of State Fire Marshal, published in Division 1301 of the
Ohio Administrative Code (OAC). The village hereby adopts any and all future
amendments or revisions to the OFC, as if fully adopted herein.
   (B)   The purpose of the Ohio Fire Code is to prescribe minimum standards
and regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire
or explosion.
   (C)   The Ohio Fire Code applies to the use of all lands and properties
within the village and such other lands or properties owned by the village
which are situated outside the village limits thereof.
(Ord. 2012-77, passed 11-20-12)
§ 91.23 ENFORCEMENT: RESPONSIBILITIES OF MUNICIPAL FIRE SAFETY INSPECTOR.
   (A)   No person shall serve as a municipal fire safety inspector unless he
or she has received a certificate issued by the Ohio Superintendent of Public
Instruction under R.C. § 4765.55 evidencing his or her satisfactory completion
of a fire safety inspection training program.
   (B)   The municipal fire safety inspector, upon examination or inspection,
shall issue citations when he or she finds conditions as specified in R.C. §
3737.41 which are especially dangerous to the safety of persons, buildings,
premises or property, and shall make any necessary remedial orders in
connection therewith. Citation enforcement may be by use of the procedures
established by R.C. § 3737.42 for hearing on the citation or R.C. § 3737.44 for
injunctive relief or a temporary restraining order and oral order for vacation
of the building or premises.
   (C)   (1)   The municipal fire safety inspector, upon reasonable belief and
after inspection or investigation, shall, with reasonable promptness, issue a
citation to the responsible person for a violation of the Ohio Fire Code or any
order issued by the Ohio Fire Marshal or any Municipal Fire Safety Inspector.
The citations shall fix a reasonable time for abatement of the violation. Each
citation issued under this division shall be prominently posted by the
responsible person, as prescribed by the Ohio Fire Code, at or near each place
a violation referred to in the citation occurs.
      (2)   The Fire Chief or any inspector or assistant inspector of the Fire
Department may, at any reasonable hour, enter any building, premises, or
vehicle within the village to perform any duty imposed on him by this chapter,
or by the Ohio Revised Code or Ohio Fire Code, provided permission to enter is
obtained from the occupant or, in the case of unoccupied property, from the
owner or the owner's agent, if such permission is refused or otherwise
unobtainable, a search warrant shall be obtained before such entry or
inspection is made, except in the case of an emergency in which case entry may
be made at any time and no search warrant is necessary. No person shall refuse
to permit such emergency entry or inspection, nor shall any person hinder,
obstruct, resist, or abuse any person making or attempting to make such entry
or inspection.
(Ord. 2012-77, passed 11-20-12)
§ 91.24 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly violate any provision of the Ohio Fire Code,
as adopted in this chapter, or any order issued pursuant thereto.
   (B)   No person shall fail to comply with the fire prevention measures or
fire prevention activities prescribed in the Ohio Fire Code or fail to comply
with the municipal application and plan submission and processing requirements,
including payment of the fees designated therefor.
(Ord. 2012-77, passed 11-20-12)
§ 91.25 SETTING FIRES WHICH SPREAD.
   No person shall set, kindle or cause to be set or kindled any fire which,
through his or her negligence, spreads beyond its immediate confines to any
structure, field or wood lot.
(Ord. 2012-77, passed 11-20-12)
§ 91.26 RESPONSIBILITIES UPON DISCOVERY OF UNFRIENDLY FIRES.
   (A)   The owner, operator or lessee, an employee or any owner, operator or
lessee, an occupant, and any person in direct control of any building regulated
under the Ohio Building Code, upon the discovery of an unfriendly fire or upon
receiving information that there is an unfriendly fire on the premises, shall
immediately and with all reasonable dispatch and diligence call or otherwise
notify the Fire Department concerning the fire and shall spread an alarm
immediately to all occupants of the building.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, UNFRIENDLY FIRE means a fire of a
destructive nature as distinguished from a controlled fire intended for a
beneficial purpose.
   (C)   No person shall fail to comply with this section.
(Ord. 2012-77, passed 11-20-12)
§ 91.27 INSPECTIONS, PERMITS AND FEES.
   (A)   No person who is not a certified fire safety inspector shall act as
such or hold himself or herself out to be such unless, prior to commencing any
inspection function, he or she discloses the purpose for which he or she is
making such inspection and the fact that he or she is not employed by any state
or local fire service or agency and that he or she is not acting in an official
capacity for any governmental subdivision or agency.
   (B)   The fee for all permits issued by the Fire Department shall be $75.
   (C)   The Fire Department shall require new construction inspection fees as
follows:
      (1)   Initial inspection fee of $200.
      (2)   Re-inspection fee of $50.
(Ord. 2012-77, passed 11-20-12)
§ 91.28 FILE AND DISTRIBUTION COPIES.
   Copies of the Ohio Fire Code, as adopted in this chapter, are on file with
the village for inspection by the public.
(Ord. 2012-77, passed 11-20-12)
§ 91.29 CONFLICT OF LAWS.
   The Ohio Building Code shall supersede and govern any order, standard, rule
or regulation of the Ohio Fire Code or the Division of State Fire Marshal,
Department of Commerce, in all cases where any such order, standard, rule or
regulation is in conflict with the Ohio Basic Building Code, except that the
rules adopted and orders issued by the Fire Marshal pursuant to R.C. Chapter
3743 prevail in the event of a conflict.
(Ord. 2012-77, passed 11-20-12)
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 91.30 REMOVAL OF FLAMMABLE MATERIALS OR OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Any flammable or combustible materials not arranged or stored in such a
manner as to afford reasonable safety against the danger of fire, or any matter
stored or arranged in such a manner as to impede or prevent access to, or exit
from, any premises in case of fire, shall be ordered by the Fire Chief to be
removed or rearranged in such manner as to eliminate any fire hazard. The order
shall be in writing and delivered to the owner, lessee, or occupant of the
premises.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.31 PROTECTIVE APPLIANCES.
   If the Fire Chief finds upon inspection that the appliances for protection
against fire are wholly wanting or are inadequate in number, condition, size,
arrangement, or efficiency for the reasonable protection of the premises
against fire, he or she shall cause an order in writing to be delivered to the
owner, lessee, or occupant requiring the installation, replacement, or repair
of appliances adequate for the reasonable protection of the premises in case of
fire.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.32 COMPLIANCE WITH ORDER.
   An order to correct the hazardous conditions specified in either §
91.30 or
91.31 shall be directed to the owner, lessee, or occupant of the premises,
building, or structure, or to the person in control of the articles, material,
goods, wares, or merchandise, or to the owner thereof, as the circumstances may
require. It is made the duty of the owner, lessee, or occupant of the premises,
building, or structure, and of the person in control of such articles,
materials, goods, wares, and merchandise, or the owner thereof, to comply with
the order with all reasonable dispatch and diligence.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.33 WASTE RECEPTACLES.
   Waste paper, ashes, oil rags, waste rags, excelsior, or any material of a
similar hazardous nature shall not be accumulated in any cellar or any other
portion of any building of any kind. Proper fireproof receptacles shall be
provided for such hazardous materials.
Penalty, see §
91.99
OPEN BURNING
§ 91.50 OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      OHIO ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY. The Ohio Environmental Protection
Agency Director, agencies delegated authority by the Director pursuant to R.C.
§ 3704.03 or the Chief of any Ohio Environmental Protection Agency District
Office.
      OPEN BURNING. The burning of any materials wherein air contaminants
resulting from combustion are emitted directly into the ambient air without
passing through a stack or chimney. OPEN BURNING includes the burning of any
refuse or salvageable material in any device not subject to or designed
specifically to comply with the requirements of Rule 3745-17-09 or 3745-17-10
of the Ohio Administrative Code.
   (B)   General regulations.
      (1)   No person shall cause or allow open burning in the municipality
except as provided in divisions (B)(2) to (4) hereof or in R.C. § 3704.11.
      (2)   Open burning shall be allowed for the following purposes without
notification to or permission from the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency or
the Fire Department:
         (a)   Cooking for human consumption; and
         (b)   Heating tar, welding, acetylene torches, highway safety flares,
heating for warmth of outdoor workers and strikers, smudge pots and similar
occupational needs.
   Fires allowed by this subdivision shall not be used for waste disposal
purposes and shall be of a minimum size sufficient for their intended purpose.
The fuel shall be chosen to minimize the generation and emission of air
contaminants.
      (3)   Open burning shall be allowed for ceremonial purposes with prior
notification to the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency or the Fire Department
if the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The ceremonial fires shall be less than five feet by five feet
in dimension and shall burn no longer than three hours.
         (b)   The ceremonial fires shall not be used for waste disposal
purposes.
         (c)   The fuel shall be chosen so as to minimize the generation and
emission of air contaminants.
      (4)   Open burning shall be allowed for the following purposes upon
receipt of written permission from the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency or
the Fire Department, provided that conditions specified in the permission are
followed:
         (a)   Disposal of ignitable or explosive materials where the Ohio
Environmental Protection Agency or the Fire Department determines that there is
no practical alternative method of disposal;
         (b)   Instruction in methods of fire fighting or for research in the
control of fires;
         (c)   In emergency or other extraordinary circumstances for any
purpose determined to be necessary by the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency
or the Fire Department;
         (d)   Recognized horticultural, silvicultural, range or wildlife
management practices; and
         (e)   Prevention or control of disease or pests, with written
verification from the local Health Department, the County Agricultural
Extension Agency, the Ohio Department of Agriculture or the U.S. Department of
Agriculture that open burning is the only appropriate disposal method.
   (C)   Other prohibitions.
      (1)   Notwithstanding any provision of this section, no open burning
shall be conducted in an area where an air alert, warning or emergency under
Chapter 3745-25 of the Ohio Administrative Code is in effect.
      (2)   No provision of this section permitting open burning, and no
permission to open burn granted by the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency or
the Fire Department, shall exempt any person from compliance with any section
of the Ohio Revised Code, any regulation of any state department or any local
ordinance or regulation dealing with open burning.
   (D)   Permission to burn.
      (1)   An application for permission to open burn shall be submitted in
writing at least ten days before the fire is to be set. It shall be in such
form and contain such information as required by the Ohio Environmental
Protection Agency or the Fire Department.
      (2)   Such application shall contain, as a minimum, information
regarding:
         (a)   The purpose of the proposed burning;
         (b)   The nature and quantities of material to be burned;
         (c)   The date or dates when such burning will take place;
         (d)   The location of the burning site, including a map showing
distances to residences, populated areas, roadways, air fields and other
pertinent landmarks; and
         (e)   The methods or actions which will be taken to reduce the
emission of air contaminants.
      (3)   Permission to open burn shall not be granted unless the applicant
demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency or
the Fire Department that open burning is necessary to the public interest; that
it will be conducted in a time, place and manner as to minimize the emission of
air contaminants; and that it will have no serious detrimental effect upon
adjacent properties or the occupants thereof. The Ohio Environmental Protection
Agency or the Fire Department may impose such conditions as may be necessary to
accomplish the purpose of this section.
      (4)   Permission to open burn must be obtained for each specific project.
In emergencies where public health or environmental quality will be seriously
threatened by a delay while written permission is sought, the fire may be set
with oral permission of the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency or the Fire
Department.
      (5)   Violations of any of the conditions set forth by the Ohio
Environmental Protection Agency or the Fire Department in granting permission
to open burn shall be grounds for revocation of such permission and refusal to
grant future permission, as well as for the imposition of other sanctions
provided by law.
   (E)   Notification.
      (1)   Notification shall be submitted in writing at least ten days before
the fire is to be set. It shall be in such form and contain such information as
required by the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency or the Fire Department.
      (2)   Such notification shall inform the Ohio Environmental Protection
Agency or the Fire Department regarding:
         (a)   The purpose of the proposed burning;
         (b)   The nature and quantities of materials to be burned;
         (c)   The date or dates when such burning will take place; and
         (d)   The location of the burning site.
      (3)   The Ohio Environmental Protection Agency or the Fire Department,
after receiving notification, may determine that the open burning is not
allowed under this section, and the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency or the
Fire Department shall notify the applicant to this effect.
   (F)   Penalty. Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is
guilty of a minor misdemeanor. Punishment shall be as provided in §
91.99. In addition, the offender shall be required to pay the cost of proper
disposal of the material burned. The cost of proper disposal of the materials
burned shall be the amount it would have cost to dispose of the materials in a
manner that is consistent with the air, water and solid waste laws, ordinances
and regulations of the municipality and the state.
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another
penalty is not specifically provided shall be subject to the penalty as
provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of
this section, whoever violates any provisions of §§
91.01 through
91.08 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of R.C. § 3743.60(I) or R.C. § 3743.61(I), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, a violation of §
91.04(E) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates §
91.06(A) is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition to any
other penalties that may be imposed on a licensed exhibitor of fireworks under
this division and unless the third sentence of this division applies, the
person’s license as an exhibitor of fireworks or as an assistant exhibitor of
fireworks shall be suspended. If the violation of §
91.06(A) results in serious physical harm to persons or serious physical harm
to property, the person’s license as an exhibitor of fireworks or as an
assistant exhibitor of fireworks shall be revoked.
      (4)   Whoever violates §
91.02(F) is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. Notwithstanding any
other provision of law to the contrary, a person may be convicted at the same
trial or proceeding of a violation of §
91.02(F) and a violation of R.C. § 2917.11(B), or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, that constitutes the basis of the charge of the violation
of § 91.02(F).
      (5)   Whoever violates §
91.04(G) or (H) is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (6)   Whoever violates §
91.02(G) is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 3743.99(C), (D), (F) - (H))
Statutory reference:
   Civil penalties for violations of State Fire Code, see R.C. § 3737.51(B)
through (H)
CHAPTER 92: JUNK MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
92.01   Definition
   
92.02   Inoperable vehicles within the village deemed public nuisance;
exceptions
   
92.03   Removal of vehicles; service
   
92.04   Right of entry
   
92.05   Written return to county auditor: lien upon property
   
92.06   Record of junk motor vehicles removed
   
92.07   Reclamation of motor vehicle
   
92.08   Disposition of motor vehicle
   
92.09   Junk motor vehicle; order to cover or remove; notice; exceptions
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INOPERABLE VEHICLE. Means any motor vehicle or vehicle towed or propelled by
a motor vehicle which meets one of the following requirements
      (1)   It does riot display a valid license plate and is in either
wrecked, partially wrecked, dismantled, partially dismantled, or discarded
condition, or is incapable of being driven; or
      (2)   It is wrecked, partially wrecked, dismantled, partially dismantled,
discarded or is incapable of being driven and has remained in such condition
for a continuous period for 14 days; or
      (3)   It otherwise is defined as a “junk motor vehicle” by R.C. § 4513.63
(B) through (E).
(Ord. 16-1990, passed 5-2-90)
§ 92.02 INOPERABLE VEHICLES WITHIN THE VILLAGE DEEMED PUBLIC NUISANCE;
EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The location or presence of any inoperable vehicle as defined in §
92.01, on any lot, tract, parcel of land or portion thereof within the village
shall be deemed a public nuisance, and no person or persons shall cause or
maintain such public nuisance by abandoning or discarding his or their
inoperable vehicle or vehicles on the property of another or suffering,
permitting or allowing the same to be placed, located or maintained or to exist
upon his or their own real property.
   (B)   Impound lots designated by the Safety Department of the village are
permitted storage times of up to one year.
(Ord. 16-1990, passed 5-2-90) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES; SERVICE.
   (A)   Whenever such a public nuisance exists, the Clerk-Treasurer or his or
her designee, who shall administer this chapter, shall give notice to the owner
of the real property whereon such public nuisance exists to abate or remove
same. Such notice and order shall state:
      (1)   The nature of the public nuisance;
      (2)   A description of and location of the motor vehicle;
      (3)   A statement that the motor vehicle must be removed from the
premises within 10 days after service of such notice and order, or same will be
removed by the village;
      (4)   A statement that removal of the vehicle must be to a location
permitted by division (B) of this section;
      (5)   A statement of the penalties provided for noncompliance;
      (6)   A statement that the property owner will be assessed the cost
incurred by the village in removing and storing the vehicle; and
      (7)   A statement that any request for a hearing must be made to the
Clerk-Treasurer within 10 days after service of such notice.
   (B)   Such notice and order shall be served upon the record owner of the
property in question either personally or by leaving a copy at the usual place
of residence or business of such owner, or address of such owner shown in the
office of the Clerk-Treasurer, or by copy mailed to such owner at such place or
address by U.S. certified mail, return receipt. If service of such written
notice and order is unable to be perfected by any of the hereinbefore methods,
then the Clerk-Treasurer or his or her designee shall cause such notice and
order to be published in a newspaper of general circulation once each week for
two consecutive weeks and shall further cause a copy of the aforesaid notice
and order to be left with the person, if any, in possession of such premises,
or, if there is no person in possession thereof, he or she shall cause a copy
of the notice and order to be posted on such premises.
   (C)   Should the record owner of property, within 10 days after receipt of
the Clerk-Treasurer's notice and order, notify the Clerk-Treasurer of his or
her designee that the inoperable vehicle is either an abandoned vehicle or an
abandoned junk motor vehicle which has been left on his or her property without
permission of the person having the right to possession of the property and
requests removal thereof, the Clerk-Treasurer or his or her designee shall
cause the removal of such vehicle pursuant to R.C. § 4513.60 or R.C. § 4513.63,
respectively.
   (D)   In the absence of a request or a hearing or compliance with the notice
and order, the Clerk- Treasurer or his or her designee shall, at the expiration
of the 10 day period provided in the notice and order served upon the record
owner of the property, remove such vehicle for the preservation of the life,
health, comfort and safety of the public. If a hearing is requested by the
property owner prior to the removal of the vehicle as a public nuisance, it is
to be held before the Law Director or his or her designee within 15 days of the
property owner's request.
(Ord. 16-1990, passed 5-2-90)
§ 92.04 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Clerk-Treasurer or his or her designee is hereby expressly authorized to
enter upon private property for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this
section. No person shall interfere, hinder or refuse to allow them to enter
upon private property for such purpose and to remove any motor vehicle in
accordance with the provisions of this section. Any person to whom notice was
given pursuant to §
92.03 shall have the right to remove or house such motor vehicle in accordance
with such notice at his or her own expense at any time prior to the arrival of
the Clerk-Treasurer or his or her designee for the purpose of removal
(Ord. 16-1990, passed 5-2-90) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 WRITTEN RETURN TO COUNTY AUDITOR: LIEN UPON PROPERTY.
   The Clerk-Treasurer or his or her designee shall make written return to the
County Auditor of the action under §
92.03 with a statement of the charges for such services, the amount paid for
labor, the fees of the officers serving such notice and a proper description of
the premises. Such amounts, when allowed, shall be entered upon the tax
duplicate and be a lien upon such lands from and after the date of the entry
and be collected as other taxes and returned to the village with the general
fund.
(Ord. 16-1990, passed 5-2-90)
§ 92.06 RECORD OF JUNK MOTOR VEHICLES REMOVED.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall maintain a record of all motor vehicles
removed pursuant to this chapter and shall maintain such record for two years
after the motor vehicle shall have been disposed of. The record shall contain
the following:
      (1)   License number, where applicable;
      (2)   Make, model, serial number, and color of motor vehicle;
      (3)   Location from which motor vehicle taken;
      (4)   Date and time of removal;
      (5)   Brief description of circumstances under which vehicle was removed;
and
      (6)   Address of place to which vehicle taken pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   This information shall be supplied by the Clerk-Treasurer to any
person identifying him or herself, either by telephone or in person, as the
owner of the motor vehicle removed.
(Ord. 20-1992, passed 3-18-92)
§ 92.07 RECLAMATION OF MOTOR VEHICLE.
   After removal of a junk motor vehicle pursuant to this chapter, the motor
vehicle shall be stored for a period of 30 days at the impound lot designated
by the Safety Department of the village. The owner of the motor vehicle may
reclaim the junk motor vehicle within 30 days after removal upon payment of
expenses incurred by the village in removal and storage of the vehicle, and
upon proof of ownership of the motor vehicle, and upon delivery of an affidavit
indicating that the motor vehicle will not be stored on private property in
violation of §
92.09.
(Ord. 20-1992, passed 3-18-92)
§ 92.08 DISPOSITION OF MOTOR VEHICLE.
   If the motor vehicle remains unclaimed under §
92.07 for a period of 30 days, the Clerk-Treasurer may thereafter immediately
dispose of the junk motor vehicle to a motor vehicle salvage dealer as defined
in R.C. § 4728.01, or a scrap metal processing facility as defined in R.C. §
4737.05, or to any other facility owned by or under contract with the village,
or the motor vehicle may be sold at public auction, with the proceeds of sale
in excess of the expenses of removal and storage of the vehicle being credited
to the general fund of the village.
(Ord. 20-1992, passed 3-18-92)
§ 92.09 JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE; ORDER TO COVER OR REMOVE; NOTICE; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   For purposes of this section, JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE means any motor
vehicle meeting the requirements of § 92.04(A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4) and (A)(5)
that is left uncovered in the open on private property for more than 72 hours
with the permission of the person having the right to possession of the
property, except if the person is operating a junk yard or scrap metal
processing facility licensed under the authority of R.C. §§ 4737.05 through
4737.12, or otherwise regulated under authority of a political subdivision; or
if the property on which the motor vehicle is left is not subject to licensure
or regulation by any governmental authority, unless the person having the right
to the possession of the property can establish that the motor vehicle is part
of a bona fide commercial operation; or if the motor vehicle is a collector's
vehicle.
      (2)   The village shall not prevent a person from storing or keeping, or
restrict him or her in the method of storing or keeping, any collector’s
vehicle on private property with the permission of the person having the right
to the possession of the property, except that the village may require a person
having such permission to conceal, by means of buildings, fences, vegetation,
terrain, or other suitable obstruction, and unlicensed collector’s vehicle
stored in the open.
      (3)   The Police Chief, the Legislative Authority, or the zoning
authority may send notice, by certified mail with return receipt requested, to
the person having the right to the possession of the property on which a junk
motor vehicle is left, that within ten days of receipt of the notice, the junk
motor vehicle either shall be covered by being housed in a garage or other
suitable structure, or shall be removed from the property.
      (4)   No person shall willfully leave a junk motor vehicle uncovered in
the open for more than ten days after receipt of a notice as provided in this
section. The fact that a junk motor vehicle is so left is prima facie evidence
of willful failure to comply with the notice, and each subsequent period of 30
days that a junk motor vehicle continues to be so left constitutes a separate
offense.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.65)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates this chapter is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on the first
offense; on a second offense, such person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree; on each subsequent offense, such person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(Ord. 16-1990, passed 5-2-90)
Cross-reference:
   For specific misdemeanor penalty provisions, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 93: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Application of the chapter
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Nuisances generally; injunctions; violation; contempt
   
93.04   Maintaining certain nuisances
   
93.05   Collection of cost of abating dangerous property condition; injunction;
rehabilitation
Unclean Habitations
   
93.20   Permitting unclean habitations
   
93.21   When habitations are deemed unsanitary
   
93.22   Order for abatement or vacation of premises
   
93.23   Enforcement of vacation order by Fire Chief or Police Chief
   
93.24   Enforcement through court proceedings
   
93.25   Notice to fill lots, remove putrid substances
   
93.26   Minimum standards to be maintained by buildings and properties within
village Septic Tanks, Cesspools, and Refuse
   
93.30   Location of privy vaults, cesspools, and septic tanks
   
93.31   Unsanitary vaults
   
93.32   Removal of contents of vault
   
93.33   Deposit of dead animals, offal upon land or water
   
93.34   Defiling spring or well prohibited
   
93.35   Dumping of refuse in village prohibited
   
93.36   Abandoned refrigerators
   
93.37   Discarding litter prohibited
   
93.38   Power of village to fill or drain land
   
93.39   Draining slops
Weeds and Litter on Private Property
   
93.50   Keeping down weeds
   
93.51   Notice to owner to cut noxious weeds, high grass; service
   
93.52   Fees for service and return
   
93.53   Procedure when owner fails to comply with notice
   
93.54   Written return to County Auditor; amount as a lien upon property
   
93.55   Litter or refuse on private property prohibited
   93.56   Exterior lighting
Miscellaneous
   
93.60   Trimming of trees and shrubbery to prevent obstruction
   
93.61   Keeping of animals
   
93.62   Burning waste or leaves
   
93.63   Noise
   
93.64   Fences
Illicit Discharge of Pollutants; Illicit Connections
   
93.70   Illicit discharge and storm water connection regulations
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Duty to keep sidewalks free from nuisances, see §
95.11
   Obscenity, injunction and abatement, see §
133.15 
   Operating a gambling house as nuisance, see §
134.03
   Places where intoxicating liquor sold as nuisances, see §
93.02,
114.22 and
114.28
   Public gaming as nuisance, see §
134.04 
   Unauthorized signs and signals as nuisance, see §
70.26 
   Unclaimed and abandoned motor vehicles, see
Chapter 92
Statutory reference:
   Issuance of adjudication orders and stop work orders, see R.C. § 3781.031
   Noise, certain nuisance immunity regarding noise at shooting ranges, see
R.C. § 1533.85
   Ohio Building Code, see O.A.C. Chapter 4101:1
   Power to abate and prevent nuisances, see R.C. § 715.44
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 APPLICATION OF THE CHAPTER.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforceable within the village
concurrently with the state and federal laws relative to sanitation and health
and the ordinances or orders of the local health district relative thereto, and
shall not be construed as modifying, repealing, limiting, or affecting in any
manner such laws, ordinances, or orders.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUISANCE. Means any of the following:
      (1)   That which is defined and declared by statutes or ordinances to be
a nuisance;
      (2)   Any place in or upon which lewdness, assignation, or prostitution
is conducted, permitted, continued, or exists, or any place in or upon which
lewd, indecent, lascivious or obscene films or plate negatives, film or plate
positives, films designed to be projected on a screen for exhibition films, or
glass slides either in negative or positive form designed for exhibition by
projection on a screen, are photographed, manufactured, developed, screened,
exhibited, or otherwise prepared or shown, and the personal property and
contents used in conducting and maintaining any such place for any such
purpose. This chapter shall not affect any newspaper, magazine, or other
publication entered as second class matter by the Post Office Department;
      (3)   Any room, house, building, boat, vehicle, structure, or place where
beer or intoxicating liquor is manufactured, sold, bartered, possessed, or kept
in violation of law and all property kept and used in maintaining the same, and
all property designed for the unlawful manufacture or beer, or intoxicating
liquor and beer, or intoxicating liquor contained in the room, house, building,
boat, structure, or place described in this division (3) where the operation of
that place substantially interferes with public decency, sobriety, peace, and
good order. "Violation of Law" includes but is not limited to sales to any
person under the legal drinking age prohibited in R.C. § 4301.22(A) or R.C. §
4301.69(A), and any violation of R.C. § 2913.46 or R.C. § 2925.03.
   PERSON. Includes any individual, corporation, association, partnership,
trustee, lessee, agent or assignee.
   PLACE. Includes any building, erection, or place or any separate part or
portion thereof or the ground itself.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
Statutory reference:
   Nuisances - disorderly houses definitions, see R.C. § 3767.01
§ 93.03 NUISANCES GENERALLY; INJUNCTIONS; VIOLATION; CONTEMPT.
   (A)   (1)   Any person who uses, occupies, establishes, or conducts a
nuisance, or aids and abets in the use, occupancy, establishment, or conduct of
a nuisance; the owner, agent, or lessee of an interest in any such nuisance;
any person who is employed in that nuisance by that owner, agent, or lessee;
and any person who is in control of that nuisance is guilty of maintaining a
nuisance and shall be enjoined as provided in R.C. §§ 3767.03 through 3767.11.
      (2)   A criminal gang that uses or occupies any building, premises, or
real estate, including vacant land, on more than two occasions within a one-
year period to engage in a pattern of criminal gang activity is guilty of
maintaining a nuisance and shall be enjoined as provided in R.C. §§ 3767.03
through 3767.11. As used in this division (A)(2), CRIMINAL GANG and PATTERN OF
CRIMINAL GANG ACTIVITY have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2923.41.
      (3)   Any building, premises, or real estate, including vacant land, that
is used or occupied by a criminal gang on more than two occasions within a one-
year period to engage in a pattern of criminal gang activity constitutes a
nuisance subject to abatement pursuant to R.C. §§ 3767.01 through 3767.11.
   (B)   In case of the violation of any injunction or closing order granted
under R.C. §§ 3767.01 through 3767.11, or of a restraining order or the
commission of any contempt of court in proceedings under such sections, the
court or, in vacation, a judge thereof, may summarily try and punish the
offender. The trial may be had upon affidavits or either party may demand the
production and oral examination or witnesses.
   (C)   Whoever is guilty of contempt under this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
Statutory reference:
   Criminal gang activity, see R.C. §§ 2923.41 et seq.
   Property used or occupied by a criminal gang, see R.C. § 2923.43
   Nuisance, see R.C. § 3767.02
   Abatement of nuisance, bond and notice, see R.C. § 3767.03
   Procedure in injunction action, see R.C. § 3767.04
   Priority of actions, evidence, costs; nuisances relating to liquor permit
premises, see R.C. § 3767.05    Content of judgment and order, disposition of
property seized, see R.C. § 3767.06
   Court shall punish offender for violation of injunction or order, R.C. §
3767.07
   Penalty, see R.C. § 3767.99(A)
§ 93.04 MAINTAINING CERTAIN NUISANCES.
   (A)   No person shall erect, continue to use, or maintain a building,
structure, or place for the exercise of a trade, employment, or business or for
keeping or feeding an animal which, by occasioning noxious exhalations or
noisome or offensive smells, becomes injurious to the health, comfort, or
property of individuals or of the public.
   (B)   No person shall cause or allow offal, filth, or noisome substances to
be collected or remain in any place to the damage or prejudice of others or of
the public.
   (C)   No person shall unlawfully obstruct or impede the passage of a
navigable river, harbor, or collection of water, or corrupt or render
unwholesome or impure a water course, stream of water, or unlawfully divert
such water course from its natural course or state to the injury or prejudice
of others.
   (D)   Persons who are engaged in agriculture-related activities, as
AGRICULTURE is defined in R.C. § 519.01, and who are conducting those
activities outside the municipality, in accordance with generally accepted
agricultural practices, and in such a manner so as not to have a substantial,
adverse effect on the public health, safety, or welfare, are exempt from
divisions (A) and (B) of this section and from any ordinances, resolutions,
rules, or other enactments of the municipality that prohibit excessive noise.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
Statutory reference:
   Prohibited acts, see R.C. § 3767.13
   Penalty, see R.C. § 3767.99(C)
§ 93.05 COLLECTION OF COST OF ABATING DANGEROUS PROPERTY CONDITION; INJUNCTION;
REHABILITATION.
   (A)   Collection of costs of abating dangerous property conditions.
      (1)   As used in this division, TOTAL COST means any costs incurred due
to the use of employees, materials, or equipment of the municipality or its
agent pursuant to division (A)(5) of this section, any costs arising out of
contracts for labor, materials, or equipment, and costs of service of notice or
publication required under this division.
      (2)   The municipality or its agent pursuant to division (A)(5) of this
section may collect the total cost of removing, repairing, or securing
insecure, unsafe, structurally defective, abandoned, deserted, or open and
vacant buildings or other structures, of making emergency corrections of
hazardous conditions, or of abating any nuisance by any of the following
methods:
         (a)   The Clerk of the Legislative Authority of the municipality or
its agent pursuant to division (A)(5) of this section may certify the total
costs, together with a proper description of lands to the County Auditor who
shall place the costs upon the tax list and duplicate. The costs are a lien
upon such lands from and after the date the costs were incurred. The costs
shall be collected as other taxes and returned to the municipality or its agent
pursuant to division (A)(5) of this section, as directed by the Clerk of the
Legislative Authority in the certification of the total costs or in an
affidavit from the agent delivered to the County Auditor or County Treasurer.
The placement of the costs on the tax list and duplicate relates back to, and
is effective in priority, as of the date the costs were incurred, provided that
the municipal corporation or its agent pursuant to division (A)(5) of this
section certifies the total costs within one year from the date the costs were
incurred.
         (b)   The municipality or its agent pursuant to division (A)(5) of
this section may commence a civil action to recover the total costs from the
owner.
      (3)   This division (A) applies to any action taken by the municipality,
or its agent pursuant to division (A)(5) of this section, pursuant to R.C. §
715.26, which authorizes the inspection, removal and repair of buildings, or
pursuant to the Ohio Constitution, Article XVIII, Section 3.
      (4)   The municipality or its agent pursuant to division (A)(5) of this
section shall not certify to the County Auditor for placement upon the tax list
and duplicate the cost of any action that it takes under division (A)(2) of
this section if the action is taken on land that has been forfeited to the
state for delinquent taxes, unless the owner of recorder deems the land.
      (5)   The municipality may enter into an agreement with a County Land
Reutilization Corporation organized under R.C. Chapter 1724 wherein the County
Land Reutilization Corporation agrees to act as the agent of the municipality
in connection with removing, repairing, or securing, insecure, unsafe,
structurally defective, abandoned, deserted, or open and vacant buildings or
other structures, making emergency corrections of hazardous conditions, or
abating any nuisance, including high weeds, overgrown brush, and trash and
debris from vacant lots. The total costs of such actions may be collected by
the corporation pursuant to division (A)(2) of this section, and shall be paid
to the corporation if it paid or incurred such costs and has not been
reimbursed.
      (6)   In the case of the lien of a County Land Reutilization Corporation
that the agent of the municipality, annotation shall be placed on the tax list
and duplicate showing the amount of the lien ascribed specifically to the
agent's total costs. The agent has standing to pursue a separate cause of
action for money damages to satisfy the lien or pursue a foreclosure action in
a court of competent jurisdiction or with the Board of Revision to enforce the
lien without regard to occupancy. For purposes of a foreclosure proceeding by
the County Treasurer for delinquent taxes, this division does not affect the
lien priority as between a County Land Reutilization Corporation and the County
Treasurer, but the corporation's lien is superior to the lien of any other lien
holder of the property. As to a direct action by a County Land Reutilization
Corporation, the lien for the taxes, assessment, charges, costs, penalties, and
interest on the tax list and duplicate is in all cases superior to the lien of
a County Land Reutilization Corporation, whose lien for total costs shall be
next in priority as against all other interests, except as provided in division
(A)(7) of this section.
      (7)   A County Land Reutilization Corporation acting as an agent of the
municipality under an agreement under this division (A) may, with the County
Treasurer's consent, petition the court or Board of Revision with jurisdiction
over an action undertaken under division (A)(6) of this section pleading that
the lien of the corporation, as agent, for the total costs shall be superior to
the lien for the taxes, assessments, charges, costs, penalties, and interest.
If the court or Board of Revision determines that the lien is for total costs
paid or incurred by the corporation as such an agent, and that subordinating
the lien for such taxes and other impositions to the lien of the corporation
promotes the expeditious abatement of public nuisances, the court or board may
order the lien for the taxes and other impositions to be subordinate to the
corporation's lien. The court or board may not subordinate the lien for taxes
and other such impositions to any other liens.
   (B)   Injunction may be granted for failure to comply. No person shall
erect, alter, repair or maintain any residential building, office, mercantile
building, workshop or factory, including a public or private garage, or other
structure, within the village unless all ordinances or resolutions enacted
pursuant to R.C. §§ 715.26 through 715.30 are fully complied with. In the event
any building or structure is being erected, constructed, altered, repaired or
maintained in violation of such ordinances or resolutions, or there is imminent
threat of violation, the village or the owner of any contiguous or neighboring
property who would be especially damaged by such violation, in addition to any
other remedies provided by law, may institute a suit for injunction to prevent
or terminate such violation.
   (C)   Appropriation of property to rehabilitate, demolition or sale.
      (1)   In order to rehabilitate a building or structure that the
municipality has determined to be a blighted property as defined in R.C. §
1.08, the municipality may appropriate, in the manner provided by R.C. §§
163.01 through 163.22, any such building or structure and the real property of
which it is a part. The municipality shall rehabilitate the building or
structure or cause it to be rehabilitated within two years after the
appropriations that the building or structure is no longer a public nuisance,
insecure, unsafe; structurally defective, unhealthful or unsanitary, or a
threat to the public health, safety, or welfare, in violation of a building
code or ordinance adopted under R.C. § 731.231. Any building or structure
appropriated pursuant to this division which is not rehabilitated within two
years shall be demolished.
      (2)   If, during their habilitation process, the village retains title to
the building or structure and the real property of which it is a part, then
within 180 days after the rehabilitation is complete, the village shall
appraise the rehabilitated building or structure and the real property of which
it is a part, and shall sell the building or structure and property at public
auction. The village shall advertise the public auction in a newspaper of
general circulation in the village once a week for three consecutive weeks, or
as provided in R.C. § 7.16, prior to the date of sale. The village shall sell
the building or structure, and real property to the highest and best bidder. No
property that the village acquires pursuant to this division shall be leased.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
Statutory reference:
   Recovering total cost of correcting hazardous condition of building or
abating nuisance, see R.C. § 715.261
   Injunction may be granted for failure to comply, see R.C. § 715.30
   Appropriation of property and rehabilitation of building or structure, see
R.C. § 719.012
   Adoption of technical ordinances and codes by reference, see R.C. § 731.231
UNCLEAN HABITATIONS
§ 93.20 PERMITTING UNCLEAN HABITATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to lease, let, permit the occupancy of,
permit the continuation of the occupancy of, or continue the occupancy of a
structure or building or any portion thereof used for human habitation, unless
such structure or building or portion thereof is free from unclean and
unsanitary conditions as defined in §
93.21 and unless the provisions of the subsequent sections are complied with.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Regulating occupied buildings, see RC. § 715.29
   Injunction for failure to comply, see R.C. § 715.30
   Duties of the landlord, see R.C. § 5321.04
   Duties of the tenant, see R.C. § 5321.05
§ 93.21 WHEN HABITATIONS ARE DEEMED UNSANITARY.
   A structure, building, or any portion thereof used for human habitation
shall be deemed to be in an unclean and unsanitary condition when any of the
following conditions exist:
   (A)   Infection with communicable disease;
   (B)   Absence of the toilet facilities required by law or ordinance;
   (C)   Presence of sewer gas;
   (D)   Dampness or wetness due to lack of repair;
   (E)   Accumulation of dirt, filth, litter, refuse, or other offensive or
dangerous substances likely to cause sickness among the occupants;
   (F)   Defective or improperly used drainage, plumbing, or ventilation
facilities likely to cause sickness.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 93.22 ORDER FOR ABATEMENT OR VACATION OF PREMISES.
   If the local Board of Health ascertains from examination or reports of its
inspectors or sanitary officers or otherwise determines that a public nuisance,
as defined in §
93.21, exists in or upon any structure or building, or portion thereof, and has
notified the owner, occupant, or person in charge of the premises to abate the
nuisance or vacate the premises, it shall be unlawful to occupy or permit the
occupancy of the premises or portion thereof until the nuisance has been
completely abated and the building or portion thereof has been rendered clean
and sanitary in accordance with the terms of the notices of the Board of
Health.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 93.23 ENFORCEMENT OF VACATION ORDER BY FIRE CHIEF OR POLICE CHIEF.
   When the notice or order of vacation has not been complied with, and the
Board of Health certifies such fact to the Fire Chief or Police Chief, together
with a copy of the order of notice, it shall be the duty of the Fire Chief or
Police Chief to enforce such notice or order of vacation and to cause the
premises to be vacated in accordance with the terms of the notice or order.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 93.24 ENFORCEMENT THROUGH COURT PROCEEDINGS.
   Whenever the Board of Health certifies to the Solicitor any failure to
comply with any order or notice of vacation, with the request that civil
proceedings for the enforcement thereof be instituted, or when the village
Building and Zoning Inspector certifies to the Solicitor the existence of any
abated nuisance after a citation relating to such nuisance has been provided to
the owners, lessees, or persons having control of the premises or property and
such persons have failed to comply or show cause as to why compliance has not
been made, the Solicitor shall institute any and all proceedings, either legal
or equitable, that may be appropriate or necessary for the enforcement of the
order, citation, or notice and the abatement of the nuisance against which the
order, citation, or notice was directed. These suits or proceedings shall be
brought in the name of the village. Proceedings under this section shall not
relieve any party defendant from criminal prosecution or punishment under this
code or any other criminal law or ordinance in force within the village.
(Ord. 34, passed 6-15-05; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 93.25 NOTICE TO FILL OTS, REMOVE PUTRID SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No person shall fail to comply with the following requirements within
the lawful time after service or publication of the notice or resolution is
made as required by law: To fill or drain any lot or land or remove all putrid
substances therefrom, or remove all obstructions from culverts, covered drains
or natural water courses as provided in R.C. § 715.47.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.26 MINIMUM STANDARDS TO BE MAINTAINED BY BUILDINGS AND PROPERTIES WITHIN
VILLAGE.
   (A)   The exterior of all premises and the condition of all buildings and
structures thereon shall be maintained so that the appearance thereof shall
reflect a level of maintenance in keeping with the standards of the village as
defined in this section and so as to avoid blighting effects and hazards to
health and safety.
   (B)   (1)   General maintenance.
         (a)   The owner/operator shall keep the exterior of all premises and
every structure thereon including, but not limited to walls, roofs, cornices,
chimneys, drains, towers, porches, landings, fire escapes, stairs, storefronts,
signs, windows, doors, awnings, and marquees in good repair, and all services
thereof shall be, kept painted or protected with other approved coating or
material where necessary for the purposes of preservation and avoiding a
blighting influence on adjoining properties. All obsolete signs shall be
removed, all surfaces shall be maintained free of broken glass, loose shingles,
crumbling stone or brick, peeling paint or other conditions reflective of the
deterioration or inadequate maintenance, to the end that the property itself
may be preserved safely and fire hazards eliminated and adjoining properties
and neighborhoods protected from blighting influences.
         (b)   All premises shall be appropriately maintained and lawns,
hedges, bushes, trees, and other vegetation shall be kept trimmed and from
becoming overgrown and unsightly where exposed to public view or where such
vegetation may constitute a blighting influence on adjoining properties.
However, this provision shall not preclude the maintenance of undeveloped or
under developed land in its natural state.
         (c)   All canopies, marquees, signs, awnings, exterior stairways, fire
escapes, standpipes, exhaust ducts, porches, balconies, and similar overhanging
extensions, shall be maintained in good condition and shall not show evidence
of weathering, discoloration, ripping, tearing or other holes or breaks.
         (d)   No swimming pool, hot tub or landscaping pond shall be operated,
kept or maintained in such a manner as to contain any amount of water that is
unsanitary, stagnant, rancid, filthy, silted, turbid, or contains swill, muck,
sludge, silt, trash, or garbage. All swimming pools and hot tubs shall be
operated, kept and maintained in a state of good repair, properly functioning
at all times, and shall be equipped with proper and functional filtering
equipment manufactured for the purpose of filtering and cleaning of such
swimming pools and hot tubs.
      (2)   Maintenance of accessory structures.
         (a)   All dilapidated accessory structures on any property shall be
removed or rehabilitated. All accessory buildings which are to remain shall
provide weatherproofed usable space and shall not harbor rodents, termites or
other vermin.
         (b)   Fences and retaining walls or similar structures shall be
anchored firmly in the ground, shall be constructed in a workmanlike manner and
maintained in the same manner so that such fences or retaining walls or similar
structures shall always be in a state of good structural repair, or in the
alternative, such fences, retaining walls or similar structures shall be
removed or replaced. All fences shall be treated periodically with chemicals or
paints as to retard deterioration, unless such deterioration is superficial
deterioration designed to enhance appearance.
      (3)   Removal of miscellaneous debris. All yards, courts, or lots shall
be kept free of unsightly materials not appropriate to the area and debris
which may cause a fire hazard or may act as a breeding place for vermin or
insects.
      (4)   Steps, walks and driveways. All steps, paths, walkways, porches,
drives, and parking lots and parking areas shall be so constructed and
maintained as to assure safety and be kept free from deterioration and
blighting effects; if any such area, by reason of its state of repair,
constitutes danger to health or safety, it shall be repaired or replaced.
Hazards and unsanitary conditions shall be eliminated. All driveways and walks
which exist within the public rights-of-way which are now paved shall be
maintained in good order by and at the expense of the owner of the fee simple
title to the property.
   (C)   (1)   During a 15-day period of time in which to disagree with the
finding(s) of the Zoning Inspector, a property owner may request a brief
hearing with the Planning Commission or submit written objection to be
considered. After the 15-day period, a final notice will be served specifying
the number of days which the owner, occupant, or other such person or entity
having charge of the land shall have in which to begin repairs or to take other
such corrective actions as may be required in order to eliminate the violation.
The Planning Commission or Zoning Inspector shall also specify a completion
date.
      (2)   Failure to comply with the directives of this section shall result
in a violation of this nuisance chapter and said violation shall be subject to
penalties contained within §
93.99.
(Ord. 70-1984, passed 1-16-85; Am. Ord. 67, passed 11-18-05; Am. Ord. 2014-46,
passed 9-3-14; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18; Am. Ord. 2023-23, passed 3-1-
23) Penalty, see §
93.99
SEPTIC TANKS, CESSPOOLS, AND REFUSE
§ 93.30 LOCATION OF PRIVY VAULTS, CESSPOOLS, AND SEPTIC TANKS.
   No owner, occupant, or person in charge of any premises situated as to
permit connection with any sanitary sewer shall maintain or permit to be
maintained on or in connection with such premises any privy vault, cesspool,
septic tank, or other repository for human excreta.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Power to regulate privies, see R.C. § 715.40
   Power to regulate refuse disposal, see R.C. § 715.43
§ 93.31 UNSANITARY VAULTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person being the owner, lessor, occupant, or
person in charge of any premises upon which a privy vault, cesspool, or septic
tank is located to permit such vault, pool, or tank, or any building, fixture,
or device appurtenant thereto, to become foul, noisome, filthy, or offensive to
neighboring property owners.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.32 REMOVAL OF CONTENTS OF VAULT.
   Whenever any part of the waste in any privy vault or cesspool extends to a
point less than three feet below the surface of the ground adjacent thereto, or
whenever use of any such vault or cesspool is abandoned or where such use or
maintenance is prohibited by ordinance or health order, the owner, lessor,
occupant or person in charge of such premises shall cause the vault or cesspool
to be emptied of its contents, thoroughly cleaned, and disinfected, and if
abandoned, to be filled with clean earth or mineral matter to the level of the
adjacent ground.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.33 DEPOSIT OF DEAD ANIMALS, OFFAL UPON LAND OR WATER.
   (A)   No person shall put the carcass of a dead animal or the offal from a
slaughter house, butcher's establishment, packing house or fish house, or
spoiled meat, spoiled fish, or other putrid substance or the contents of a
privy vault, upon or into a lake, river, bay, creek, pond, canal, road, street,
alley, lot, meadow, public ground, marketplace, or common. No owner or occupant
of such place shall knowingly permit such thing to remain there into the
annoyance of any citizen or neglect to remove or abate the nuisance occasioned
thereby within 24 hours after knowledge of the existence thereof, or after
notice thereof in writing from the designated municipal official.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
Statutory reference:
   Prohibition against deposit of dead animals and offal upon water or land,
see R.C. § 3767.16
   Penalty, see R.C. § 3767.99(D)
§ 93.34 DEFILING SPRING OR WELL PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall maliciously put a dead animal, carcass, or part
thereof or other putrid, nauseous, or offensive substance into, or befoul, a
well, spring, brook, or branch of running water, or a reservoir of a water
works, of which use is or may be made for domestic purposes.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
Statutory reference:
   Prohibition against defiling spring or well, see R.C. § 3767.18
   Penalty, see R.C. § 3767.99(D)
§ 93.35 DUMPING OF REFUSE IN VILLAGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to dump, cause to be dumped or permit to
be dumped on any publicly or privately owned land or water in the municipality
any paper, brush, leaves, grass clippings, rubbish, tin cans, vegetation,
garbage, or refuse of any kind, without first having obtained a written license
from the Mayor or other designated municipal officer to do so. The Mayor or
other designated municipal officer shall issue a license permitting dumping of
designated materials when it appears that filling of the land is necessary and
that the material deposited will be immediately covered with earth or will not
be objectionable to the citizens of the neighborhood, or injurious to health,
safety and general welfare of the citizens.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.36 ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS.
   (A)   No person shall abandon, discard, or knowingly permit to remain on
premises under the person's control, in a place accessible to children, any
abandoned or discarded ice box, refrigerator, or other airtight or semi-
airtight container which has a capacity of 1–1-½ cubic feet or more and an
opening of 50 square inches or more and which has a door or lid equipped with a
hinge, latch, or other fastening device capable of securing such door or lid,
without rendering the equipment harmless to human life by removing such hinges,
latches or other hardware which may cause a person to be confined therein. This
section shall not apply to an icebox, refrigerator or other airtight or semi-
airtight container located in that part of a building occupied by a dealer,
warehouse or repairer.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
Statutory reference:
   Prohibition against abandoned refrigerators, see R.C. § 3767.29
   Penalty, see R.C. § 3767.99(B)
§ 93.37 DISCARDING LITTER PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, regardless of intent, shall deposit litter or cause litter
to be deposited on any public property, on private property not owned by him or
her, or in or on waters of the state, unless one of the following applies:
      (1)   The person is directed to do so by a public official as part of a
litter collection drive.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, the person
deposits the litter in a litter receptacle in a manner that prevents its being
carried away by the elements.
      (3)   The person is issued a permit or license covering the litter
pursuant to R.C. Chapter 3734 or 6111.
   (B)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly deposit litter,
or cause it to be deposited, in a litter receptacle located on any public
property or on any private property not owned by him or her, unless one of the
following applies:
      (1)   The litter was generated or located on the property on which the
litter receptacle is located.
      (2)   The person is directed to do so by a public official as part of a
litter collection drive.
      (3)   The person is directed to do so by a person whom he or she
reasonably believes to have the privilege to use the litter receptacle.
      (4)   The litter consists of any of the following:
         (a)   The contents of a litter bag or container of a type and size
customarily carried and used in a motor vehicle.
         (b)   The contents of an ash tray of a type customarily installed or
carried and used in a motor vehicle.
         (c)   Beverage containers and food sacks, wrappings, and containers of
a type and in an amount that reasonably may be expected to be generated during
routine commuting or business or recreational travel by a motor vehicle.
         (d)   Beverage containers, food sacks, wrappings, containers, and
other materials of a type and in an amount that reasonably may be expected to
be generated during a routine day by a person and deposited in a litter
receptacle by a casual passerby.
   (C)   (1)   As used in division (B)(1) of this section, PUBLIC PROPERTY
includes any private property open to the public for the conduct of business,
the provision of a service, or upon the payment of a fee but does not include
any private property to which the public otherwise does not have a right of
access.
      (2)   As used in division (B)(4) of this section, CASUAL PASSERBY means a
person who does not have depositing litter in a litter receptacle as his or her
primary reason for traveling to or by the property on which the litter
receptacle is located.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DEPOSIT. To throw, drop, discard, or place.
      LITTER. Garbage, trash, waste, rubbish, ashes, cans, bottles, wire,
paper, cartons, boxes, automobile parts, furniture, glass, or anything else of
an unsightly or unsanitary nature.
      LITTER RECEPTACLE. A dumpster, trashcan, trash bin, garbage can, or
similar container in which litter is deposited for removal.
   (E)   This section may be enforced by any sheriff, deputy sheriff, police
officer of the municipality, police constable or officer of a township, or
township or joint police district, wildlife officer, park officer, forest
officer, preserve officer, conservancy district police officer, inspector of
nuisances of a county, or any other law enforcement officer within the law
enforcement officer's jurisdiction.
   (F)   Whoever violates any provision of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. The sentencing court may, in addition to or in
lieu of the penalty provided in this division, require a person who violates
this section to remove litter from any public or private property or in or on
waters of the state.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
Statutory reference:
   Littering, see R.C. § 3767.32
   Penalty, see R.C. § 3767.99(C)
§ 93.38 POWER OF THE VILLAGE TO FILL OR DRAIN LAND.
   (A)   The village may fill or drain any lot or land within its limits on
which water at any time becomes stagnant, remove all putrid substances from any
lot, and remove all obstructions from culverts, covered drains, or private
property, laid in any natural water course, creek, brook, or branch, which
obstruct the water naturally flowing therein, causing it to flow back or become
stagnant, in a way prejudicial to the health, comfort, or convenience of any of
the citizens of the neighborhood. If such culverts or drains are of
insufficient capacity, the village may make them of such capacity as reasonable
to accommodate the flow of such water at all times.
   (B)   The Council may, by resolution, direct the owner to fill or drain such
lot, remove such putrid substance or other obstructions, and if necessary,
enlarge such culverts or covered drains to meet the requirements thereof.
   (C)   After service of a copy of such resolution, or after a publication
thereof in a newspaper of general circulation in the village or as provided in
R.C. § 7.16 for two consecutive weeks, the owner, or the owner's agent or
attorney, shall comply with the directions of the resolution within the time
therein specified.
   (D)   In case of the failure or refusal of such owner to comply with the
resolution, the work required thereby may be done at the expense of the
village, and the amount of money so expended shall be recovered from the owner
before any court of competent jurisdiction. This expense from the time of the
adoption of the resolution shall be a lien on such lot, which may be enforced
by suit in the Court of Common Pleas, and like proceedings may be had as
directed in relation to the improvement of streets.
   (E)   The officers connected with the Health Department of the village shall
see that this section is strictly and promptly enforced.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
Statutory reference:
   Power to fill or drain lots and remove obstructions - resolutions, see R.C.
§ 715.47
§ 93.39 DRAINING SLOPS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to drain, cause to be
drained, or allow to drain from any property occupied by him or her any kitchen
slops or other greasy or impure matter in the open gutters or waterways in the
village, unless the drainage has been drained into a vault and filtered through
a lesser vault filled with sand and fine gravel, built under the inspection of
the local board of health.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18) Penalty, see §
93.99
WEEDS AND LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
§ 93.50 KEEPING DOWN WEEDS.
   (A)   Any person owning or having charge of land within the village shall
keep such property free and clear from all noxious weeds and rank vegetation
and shall be required to cut all such weeds and vegetation on the lots owned or
controlled by him or her at least once a month in every year between May 1 and
October 31.
   (B)   Noxious weeds and rank vegetation shall include but not be limited to:
      (1)   Any weeds such as the following:
         Noxious Weeds
         Apple of Peru            Marestail
         Buckthorn               Mile-A- Minute Weed
         Canada Thistle            Musk Thistle
         Columbus Grass            Oxeye Daisy
         Corncockle               Perennial Sowthistle
         Cressleaf Groundsel         Poison Hemlock
         Curly Dock               Purple Loosestrife
         Dodder                   Quackgrass
         Field Bindweed            Russian Knapweed
         French Weed            Russian Thistle
         Giant Hogweed            Serrated Tussock
         Hairy Whitetop (Ballcress)   Shatter Cane
         Hedge Bindweed         Wild Carrot
         Heart-podded Hoary Cress   Wild Garlic
         Horsenettle               Wild Mustard
         Johnsongrass            Wild Onion
         Leafy Spurge            Wild Parsnip
      (2)   Grapevines when growing in groups of 100 or more and not pruned,
sprayed, cultivated, or otherwise maintained for two consecutive years;
      (3)   Bushes of the species of tall, common, or European barberry,
further known as berberis vulgaris or its horticultural varieties;
      (4)   Any weeds, grass, or plants, other than trees, bushes, flowers, or
other ornamental plants, growing to a height exceeding eight inches.
(Ord. 23, passed 4-28-99; Am. Ord. 2011-54, passed 11-2-11; Am. Ord. 2018-80,
passed 11-20-18)
Statutory reference:
   Prohibited and restricted noxious weed seeds list, see O.A.C. § 901:5-27-06
   Prohibited noxious weeds, see O.A.C. § 901:5-37-01
§ 93.51 NOTICE TO OWNER TO CUT NOXIOUS WEEDS, HIGH GRASS; SERVICE.
   (A)   Upon written information that noxious weeds are growing on lands in
the village and are about to spread or mature seeds, the Zoning Inspector or
his designee shall cause notice to be served on the owner, lessee, agent, or
tenant having charge of such land, notifying him or her that noxious weeds are
growing on such lands and that they must be cut and destroyed within five days
after service of such notice.
   (B)   Written notice of the violation shall be posted at the offending
property and the village shall send said notice by regular U.S. mail to be
served upon the owner, lessee, agent or tenant having charge of such land, at
the tax mailing address for said property. If the address of the owner or other
person having charge of the land is unknown it is sufficient to publish the
notice once in a newspaper of general circulation in the county. Only one
notice per calendar year for violations of this section is required for a lot
or parcel. If, after notice has been served in accordance with this division,
the village determines that a subsequent violation has occurred, the village
may proceed with the remedies contained within these sections.
   (C)   In the instance of unoccupied property or vacant land the village, in
lieu of a mailed notice, may post the property by affixing a notice to the
building or in the instance of vacant land a notice may be affixed to a stake,
tree, or fence. This notice shall contain the day of posting and the location
of the property. Such weeds or other growth must be cut or destroyed within
five days after receipt of such notice.
   (D)   This section does not apply to land being used under a municipal
building or construction permit or license, a municipal permit or license, or a
conditional zoning permit or variance to operate a junkyard, scrap metal
processing facility, or similar business, or a permit or license issued
pursuant to R.C. Chapter 3734, R.C. §§ 4737.05 through 4737.12, or R.C. Chapter
6111.
(Ord. 23, passed 4-28-99; Am. Ord. 2011-54, passed 11-2-11; Am. Ord. 2012-51,
passed 8-l-12; Am. Ord. 2014-46, passed 9-3-14; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-
18)
Statutory reference:
   Notice to owner to cut noxious weeds or remove litter - service, see R.C. §
731.51
§ 93.52 FEES FOR SERVICE AND RETURN.
   The Police Chief, any police officer, zoning inspector, or Clerk-Treasurer
may make service and return of the notice provided for in § 93.51 and shall be
allowed the same fees as that provided for service and return of summons in
civil cases before a magistrate.
(Ord. 23, passed 4-28-99; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
Statutory reference:
   Fees for service and return, see R.C. § 731.52
§ 93.53 PROCEDURE WHEN OWNER FAILS TO COMPLY WITH NOTICE.
   If the owner, lessee, agent, or tenant having charge of the lands fails to
comply with the notice required by such section, the village shall cause
noxious weeds, or high grass to be cut and destroyed and may employ the
necessary labor to perform the task. All expenses incurred shall, when approved
by the village be paid out of the money in the treasury of the village not
otherwise appropriated.
   (A)   In addition to the expenses provided above, each violator of this
chapter shall be assessed an administrative charge of $100 for each occurrence
wherein the village was required to serve notice of a violation of this
chapter.
   (B)   In addition to the remedies previously set forth in this section,
whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree. A separate offense shall be
deemed committed each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   Expenses as a lien. All expenses so incurred by the Clerk-Treasurer or
Zoning Inspector and the cost of such notice shall be reduced to writing in the
form of a statement and mailed to the owner of the private property involved if
his or her address is known. If, after 30 days of such mailing, such amount
remains unpaid, the Clerk-Treasurer shall certify the total amount of the
expense, the name of the owner of the private property, and a sufficient
description of the premises to the Auditor of Summit County or Portage County,
depending on the location of the subject property, to be entered upon the tax
duplicate, to be a lien on the land from the date of entry, to be collected as
other taxes and assessments and returned to the village, pursuant to R.C. §
731.54. The remedy provided for herein shall be in addition to the penalties
hereafter provided in §
93.99(B).
(Ord. 23, passed 4-28-99; Am. Ord. 2012-51, passed 8-1-12; Am. Ord. 2014-46,
passed 9-3-14; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
Statutory reference:
   Procedure when owner fails to comply with notice, see R.C. § 731.53
§ 93.54 WRITTEN RETURN TO COUNTY AUDITOR; AMOUNT AS A LIEN UPON PROPERTY.
   The Village Clerk or their designee shall make a written return to the
County Auditor of their actions under §§
93.51,
93.52,
93.53, and
93.55 with a statement of the charges for their services, the amount paid for
labor, equipment and materials, the fees of the officers serving the notices,
and a proper description of the premises. These amounts, when allowed, shall be
entered upon the tax duplicate and be a lien upon such lands from and after the
date of entry and be collected as other taxes and returned to the municipality
with the general fund.
(Ord. 23, passed 4-28-99; Am. Ord. 2014-46, passed 9-3-14; Am. Ord. 2018-80,
passed 11-20-18)
Statutory reference:
   Written return to county auditor - amount a lien upon property, see R.C. §
731.54
§ 93.55 LITTER OR REFUSE ON PRIVATE PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      GARBAGE. The matter, substance, or waste resulting from the growing,
handling, storage, preparation, cooking and/or consumption of food, including
animals (including fat and bones), fowl, fish, fruits, and vegetables,
including animal and bird feeds.
      LITTER. Garbage, refuse, and rubbish, as defined herein, and all other
waste material including, without limitation, appliances, roofing material,
siding material, broken concrete, broken asphalt, bricks, drywall, tree and
shrub stumps, limbs, leaves, grass clippings, branches, automobiles and/or
parts of automobiles, and other waste material which, if thrown, stored or
deposited, as herein prohibited, tends to create a danger to public health,
safety and welfare. The term LITTER shall also include abandoned property. For
purposes of this section, abandoned property shall include, but not be limited
to, property left on any public right-of-way for a period of 48 hours or
longer.
      PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company, or organization of any kind.
      REFUSE. All putrescible and non-putrescible solid wastes, including, but
not limited to, garbage, rubbish, litter, ashes, street cleanings, dead
animals, automobile parts, or abandoned automobiles.
      RUBBISH. Non putrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and
non- combustible wastes, such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, tin
cans, glass, bedding, crockery, and similar materials.
   (B)   Litter on private property prohibited. No person shall throw or
deposit litter on any private property within the village, whether owned by
such person or not.
   (C)   Owner to maintain premises free of litter. The owner or person in
control of any private property shall at all times maintain the premises free
of litter.
   (D)   Clearing of litter by village.
      (1)   Upon a finding by the Zoning Inspector that litter has been placed
on lands in the village, and has not been removed, and constitutes a detriment
to public health, the Zoning Inspector shall cause a notice to be served upon
the owner or the agent of such owner, to properly dispose of litter located on
such owner’s private property and that it must be collected and removed within
five days after the service of the notice.
      (2)   As used in this section, LITTER includes any garbage, waste,
peelings of vegetables or fruits, rubbish, ashes, cans, bottles, wire, paper,
cartons, boxes, parts of automobiles, wagons, furniture, glass, oil of an
unsightly or unsanitary nature, or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary
nature.
      (3)   Action upon non compliance. On the failure, neglect or refusal of
any owner or agent notified as aforesaid to properly dispose of litter five
days after service as aforesaid, the Clerk-Treasurer and/or the Zoning
Inspector shall cause such litter to be removed and may employ the necessary
labor to perform such work or cause it to be done by the village.
      (4)   In addition to the expenses provided above, each violator of this
chapter may be assessed an administrative charge of $100 for each occurrence
wherein the village was required to serve notice of a violation of this
chapter.
      (5)   In addition to the remedies previously set forth in this section,
whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree. A separate offense shall be
deemed committed each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
      (6)   Expenses as a lien. All expenses so incurred by the Clerk-Treasurer
or Zoning Inspector and the cost of such notice shall be reduced to writing in
the form of a statement and mailed to the owner of the private property
involved if his or her address is known. If, after 30 days of such mailing,
such amount remains unpaid, the Clerk-Treasurer shall certify the total amount
of the expense, the name of the owner of the private property, and a sufficient
description of the premises to the Auditor of Summit County or Portage County,
depending on the location of the subject property, to be entered upon the tax
duplicate, to be a lien on the land from the date of entry, to be collected as
other taxes and assessments and returned to the village, pursuant to R.C. §
731.54. The remedy provided for herein shall be in addition to the penalties
hereinafter provided in § 93.99(B).
(Ord. 63-1991, passed 11-20-91; Am. Ord. 2014-46, passed 9-3-14; Am. Ord. 2018-
80, passed 11-20-18) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.56 EXTERIOR LIGHTING.
   (A)   No owner or occupant of property shall place or permit the placement
of exterior lighting upon any building or property owned or occupied by him or
her unless such lighting is designed and placed in such a manner and is of such
illumination as to confine illumination to the property upon which it is placed
and prevent unreasonable shining, lighting, glare or reflection upon
neighboring residential premises or upon public streets.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. Each day the violation persists shall be deemed a separate
violation.
(Ord. 2023-47, passed 7-19-23)
MISCELLANEOUS
§ 93.60 TRIMMING OF TREES AND SHRUBBERY TO PREVENT OBSTRUCTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to plant, grow, or maintain any
shade tree or trees or shrubbery which will obstruct the proper distribution of
light from street lamps or which will obstruct the view of traffic approaching
an intersection by operators of vehicles approaching such intersection from
another direction.
   (B)   All trees shall be trimmed so as to have a clear height of ten feet
above the surface of sidewalks and 12 feet above the surface of the street or
roadway, and the branches of all trees in front of and along lots or lands near
which street lights are placed shall be trimmed so as not to obstruct the free
passage of light from such streetlights to the street and sidewalk.
   (C)   The village shall cause a written notice to be given to property
owners ordering them to trim or remove trees and shrubbery so that the trees
and shrubbery conform to divisions (A) and (B) of this section.
   (D)   If the property owner fails to trim or remove the trees and shrubbery
as ordered, the village may cause the trees and shrubbery to be trimmed or
removed as ordered and the cost thereof shall be a lien upon such real estate.
(Ord. 2014-46, passed 9-3-14; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Power to regulate shade trees, see R.C. § 715.20
§ 93.61 KEEPING OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall keep any pig, horse, cow, goat, three or more dogs at
least three months of age, or any other animal or animals or any fowl or
poultry in any pen, yard, lot, or other enclosure situated within 100 feet of
an inhabited dwelling house, other than the house of the owner of such animal
or animals, fowl, or poultry.
   (B)   The owner or keeper of any such animal or animals, fowl or poultry
shall keep the pen, yard, lot or other enclosure in a sanitary condition and
free from preventable offensive odors.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18) Penalty, see §
93.99
Cross-reference:
   Animals, see Chapter 90
§ 93.62 BURNING WASTE OR LEAVES.
   No person shall burn any leaves, trash, debris, or any other waste material
within the village.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18) Penalty, see §
93.99
Cross-reference:
   Open burning, see §
91.50
§ 93.63 NOISE.
   (A)   No person shall generate or permit to be generated unreasonable noise
or loud sound which is likely to cause inconvenience or annoyance to persons of
ordinary sensibilities by means of noisy machinery which results from the
maintenance, running or operation of any steam, gas, gasoline or other engine,
boiler, press, machine or other apparatus so constructed or operated as to make
excessive noise, a radio, phonograph, television, tape player, loud speaker or
any other sound amplifying device or by any horn, drum, piano or other musical
or percussion instrument. It is prima facie unlawful for a person to generate
or to permit to be generated sound by the above described devices or
instruments in the following circumstances:
      (1)   On private property between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
of the following day in a predominantly residential area where the sound is
audible more than 30 feet from the property line of the property on which the
source of the sound is located; or
      (2)   On a street, highway or in the public right-of-way where the sound
is audible 100 feet from the device generating the sound. Persons in possession
of a current parade permit are exempt from the provisions of this division (A)
(2) for conducting activities consistent with such permit, i.e. a parade.
   (B)   No person, being the owner, or person in possession of a premises or
person in control of the premises by reason of employment, agency, or otherwise
whether such ownership, possession or control is exclusive or joint, shall
permit or allow a violation of this section.
   (C)   Warning and alarm devices which have the purpose of signaling unsafe
or dangerous situations or calling for police are exempted from the
prohibitions of this section when used for such purposes.
(Ord. 27-1992, passed 5-6-92; Am. Ord. 2016-56, passed 7-20-16; Am. Ord. 2018-
80, passed 11-20- 18) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.64 FENCES.
   (A)   No person shall erect or maintain any fence charged with electrical
current.
   (B)   No person shall erect or maintain a barbed wire fence which abuts or
is adjacent to any public street or sidewalk. This division does not prevent
the replacement and use of not more than three strands of barbed wire on top of
a fence other than a barbed wire fence, provided such strands are not less than
72 inches from the ground. Barbed wire partition fences may be erected and
maintained as provided in R.C. § 971.03.
   (C)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during
or on which a violation continues.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.70 ILLICIT DISCHARGE AND STORM WATER CONNECTION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Purpose/intent. The purpose of this section is to provide for the
health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens of the village through the
regulation, of non-storm water discharges to the storm drainage system to the
maximum extent, practicable as required by federal and state law. This section
and
Chapter 153 of these Codified Ordinances, establish methods for controlling the
introduction of pollutants into the municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4)
in order to comply with requirements of the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) permit process. The objectives of this section are:
      (1)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the municipal
separate storm sewer system (MS4) by storm water discharges by any user;
      (2)   To prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the municipal
separate storm sewer system;
      (3)   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection,
surveillance and monitoring procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this
section.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following shall
mean:
      BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs). Schedules of activities, prohibitions
of practices, general good housekeeping practices, pollution prevention and
educational practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices
to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to
storm water, receiving waters, or storm water conveyance systems. BMPs also
include treatment practices, operating procedures, and practices to control
site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal, or drainage from raw
materials storage.
      CLEAN WATER ACT. The federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. §§
1251 et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
      CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Activities subject to NPDES Construction Permits.
Any construction project resulting in land disturbance of one acre or more.
Such activities include but are not limited to clearing and grubbing, grading,
excavating, and demolition.
      HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any material, including any substance, waste, or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical,
chemical, or infections characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety,
property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported,
disposed of, or otherwise managed.
      ILLEGAL DISCHARGE. Any direct or indirect non-storm water discharge to
the storm drainage system, except as exempted in this section.
      ILLICIT CONNECTIONS. Either of the following: Any drain or conveyance,
whether on the surface or subsurface, which allows an illegal discharge to
enter the storm drainage system, including but not limited to any conveyances
which allow any non-storm water discharge including sewage, process waste
water, and wash water to enter the storm drainage system, and any connections
to the storm drainage system from indoor drains and sinks, regardless of
whether said drain or connection had been previously allowed, permitted, or
approved by the village, or any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial
or industrial land use to the storm drainage system which has not been
documented in plans, maps, or equivalent records and approved by the
      INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY. Activities subject to NPDES Industrial Permits as
defined in 40 C.F.R. § 122.26(b)(14).
      NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORM WATER
DISCHARGE PERMIT. A permit issued by EPA (or by a state under authority
delegated pursuant to 33 U.S.C. § 1342(b)) that authorizes the discharge of
pollutants to waters of the United States, whether the permit is applicable on
an individual, group, or general area-wide basis.
      NON-STORM WATER DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the storm drainage system
that is not composed entirely of storm water.
      PERSON. Any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm,
corporation or other entity recognized by law and acting as either the owner or
as the owner's agent.
      POLLUTANT. Anything which causes or contributes to pollution. POLLUTANTS
may include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes, and solvents; oil and
other automotive fluids; non-hazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes;
refuse, rubbish, leaves, grass clippings, garbage, litter, concrete truck wash-
out, or other discarded or abandoned objects, so that same may cause or
contribute to pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers
when applied in excess of federal, state or local standards; hazardous
substances and wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and
particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from
constructing a building or structure; and noxious or offensive matter of any
kind.
      PREMISES. Any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land, whether
improved or unimproved, including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
      STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM. Publicly-owned facilities by which storm water is
collected and/or conveyed, including but not limited to any roads with drainage
systems, municipal streets, gutters, curbs, inlets, piped storm drains, pumping
facilities, retention and detention basins, natural and human-made or altered
drainage channels, reservoirs, and other drainage structures.
      STORM WATER. Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting entirely
of water from any form of natural precipitation, and resulting from such
precipitation.
      STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN. A document which describes the
best management practices and activities to be implemented by a person or
business to identify sources of pollution or contamination at a site and the
actions to eliminate or reduce pollutant discharges to storm water, storm water
conveyance systems, and/or receiving waters to the maximum extent practicable.
      VILLAGE. Employees or designees of the Mayor of the Village of Mogadore,
Ohio designated to enforce this section.
      WASTE WATER. Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated storm
water, discharged from a facility.
   (C)   Applicability. This section shall apply to all water entering the
storm drainage system generated on any developed and undeveloped lands unless
explicitly exempted by the village.
   (D)   Responsibility for administration. The village shall administer,
implement, and enforce the provisions of this section. Any powers granted or
duties imposed upon the village may be delegated by the Mayor to persons or
entities acting in the beneficial interest of or in the employ of the village,
including the Village Engineer.
   (E)   Severability. The provisions of this section are hereby declared to be
severable. If any provision, clause, sentence, or paragraph of this section or
the application thereof to any person, establishment, or circumstances shall be
held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect the other provisions or
application of this section.
   (F)   Ultimate responsibility. The standards set forth herein and
promulgated pursuant to this section are minimum standards; therefore this
section does not intend nor imply that compliance by any person will ensure
that there will be no contamination, pollution, nor unauthorized discharge of
pollutants.
   (G)   Prohibition of illegal discharges. No person shall discharge or cause
to be discharged into the municipal storm drainage system or water courses, any
materials, including but not limited to pollutants or waters containing any
pollutants that cause or contribute to a violation of applicable water quality
standards, other than storm water. The commencement, conduct or continuance of
any illegal discharge to the storm drainage system is prohibited except as
described as follows:
      (1)   The following discharges are exempt from discharge prohibitions
established by this section; waterline flushing or other potable water sources,
landscape irrigation or lawn watering, diverted stream flows, rising ground
water, ground water infiltration to storm drains, uncontaminated pumped ground
water, foundation or footing drains (not including active ground water
dewatering systems), crawl space pumps, air conditioning condensation, springs,
noncommercial washing of vehicles, natural riparian habitat or wetland flows,
swimming pools (if dechlorinated-typically less than one PPM chlorine), fire-
fighting activities, and any other water source not containing pollutants.
      (2)   Discharges specified in writing by the village as being necessary
to protect public health and safety.
      (3)   Dye testing is an allowable discharge, but requires a verbal
notification to the village prior to the time of the test.
      (4)   The prohibition shall not apply to any non-storm water discharge
permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver, or waste discharge order issued to the
discharger and administered under the authority of the Federal Environmental
Protection Agency, provided that the discharger is in full compliance with all
requirements of the permit, waiver, or order and other applicable laws and
regulations, and provided that written approval has been granted for any
discharge to the storm drainage system.
   (H)   Prohibition of illicit connections. The construction, use, maintenance
or continued existence of illicit connections to the storm drainage system is
prohibited. This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection. A person is considered to be in violation of this section if the
person connects a line conveying sewage to the MS4, or allows such a connection
to continue.
   (I)   Suspension of MS4 access due to illicit discharges in emergency
situations. The village may, without prior notice, suspend MS4 discharge access
to a person when such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened
discharge which presents or may present imminent and substantial danger to the
environment, or to the health or welfare of persons, or to the MS4 or waters of
the United States. If the violator fails to comply with a suspension order
issued in an emergency, the village may take such steps as deemed necessary to
prevent or minimize damage to the MS4 or waters of the United States, or to
minimize danger to persons. Any person discharging to the MS4 in violation of
this section may have their MS4 access terminated if such termination would
abate or reduce an illicit discharge. The village will notify a violator of the
proposed termination of its MS4 access. The violator may petition the village
for consideration and hearing. A person commits an offense if the person
reinstates MS4 access to premises terminated pursuant to this section, without
the prior approval of the village.
   (J)   Industrial or construction activity discharges. Any person subject to
an industrial or construction activity NPDES storm water discharge permit shall
comply with all provisions of such permit. Proof of compliance with said permit
may be required in a form acceptable to the village prior to the allowing of
discharges to the MS4.
   (K)   Monitoring of discharges. This section applies to all facilities that
have storm water discharges associated with industrial activity, including
construction activity.
      (1)   Access to facilities. The village shall be permitted to enter and
inspect facilities subject to regulation under this section as often as may be
necessary to determine compliance with this section. If a discharger has
security measures in force which require proper identification and clearance
before entry into its premises, the discharger shall make the necessary
arrangements to allow access to representatives of the village.
         (a)   Facility operators shall allow the village ready access to all
parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, examination and
copying of records that must be kept under the conditions of an NPDES permit to
discharge storm water, and the performance of any additional duties as defined
by state and federal law.
         (b)   The village shall have the right to set upon any permitted
facility such devices as are necessary in the opinion of the village to conduct
monitoring and/or sampling of the facility's storm water discharge.
         (c)   The village has the right to require the discharger to install
monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility’s sampling and monitoring
equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating
condition by the discharger at its own expense. All devices used to measure
storm water flow and quality shall be calibrated to ensure their accuracy.
         (d)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access
to the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
operator at the written or oral request of the village and shall not be
replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the operator.
         (e)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the village access to a
permitted facility are a violation of a storm water discharge permit and of
this section. A person who is the operator of a facility with a NPDES permit to
discharge storm water associated with industrial activity commits an offense if
the person denies the village reasonable access to the permitted facility for
the purpose of conducting any activity authorized or required by this section.
         (f)   If the village has been refused access to any part of the
premises from which storm water is discharged, and he or she is able to
demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this
section, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine
inspection and sampling program designed to verify compliance with this section
or any order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety,
and welfare of the community, then the village may seek issuance of a search
warrant from any court of competent jurisdiction.
   (L)   Requirements to prevent, control, and reduce storm water pollutants by
the use of best management practices. The village requires the use of best
management practices for any activity, operation, or facility which may cause
or contribute to pollution or contamination of storm water, the storm drainage
system, or waters of the United States. The owner or operator of a commercial
or industrial establishment shall provide, at their own expense, reasonable
protection from accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other wastes
into the municipal storm drainage system or water courses through the use of
structural and non-structural BMPs. Further, any person responsible for a
property or premises which is or may be the source of an illicit discharge, may
be required to implement, at said person's expense, additional structural and
non-structural BMPs to prevent the further discharge of pollutants to the
municipal separate storm sewer system. Compliance with all terms and conditions
of a valid NPDES permit authorizing the discharge of storm water associated
with industrial activity, to the extent practicable, shall be deemed compliance
with the provisions of this section. These BMPs shall be part of a storm water
pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) as necessary for compliance with requirements
of the NPDES permit.
   (M)   Notification of spills. Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as
soon as any person responsible for a facility or operation, or responsible for
emergency response for a facility or operation has information of any known or
suspected release of materials which are resulting or may result in illegal
discharges or pollutants discharging into storm water, the storm drainage
system, or water of the United States, said person shall take all necessary
steps to ensure the discovery, containment, and cleanup of such release. In the
event of such a release of hazardous materials said person shall immediately
notify emergency response agencies of the occurrence via emergency dispatch
services. In the event of a release of non-hazardous materials, said person
shall notify the village in person or by phone no later than the next business
day. Notifications in person or by phone shall be confirmed by written notice
addressed and mailed to the Clerk-Treasurer of the village within three
business days of the phone notice. If the discharge of prohibited materials
emanates from a commercial or industrial establishment, the owner or operator
of such establishment shall also retain an on-site written record of the
discharge and the actions taken to prevent its recurrence. Such records shall
be retained for at least three years.
   (N)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Notice of violation. Whenever the village finds that a person has
violated a prohibition or failed to meet a requirement of this section, the
village may order compliance by written notice of violation to the responsible
person. Such notice may require without limitation:
         (a)   The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
         (b)   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
         (c)   That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease
and desist;
         (d)   The abatement or mediation of storm water pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
         (e)   Payment of a penalty to cover administrative and remediation
costs; and
         (f)   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
         If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property
are required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which such
remediation or restoration must be completed. Said notice shall further advise
that, should the violator fail to remediate or restore within the established
deadline, the work will be done by a designated governmental agency or a
contractor and the expense thereof shall be charged to the violator.
      (2)   Appeal of notice of violation. Any person receiving a notice of
violation may appeal the determination of the village. The notice of appeal
must be received by the Clerk-Treasurer within 15 days from the date of the
notice of violation. Hearing on the appeal before the appropriate authority or
his or her designee shall take place within 15 days from the date of receipt of
the notice of appeal. The decision of the municipal authority or their designee
shall be final.
      (3)   Enforcement measures after appeal. If the violation has not been
corrected pursuant to the requirements set forth in the notice of violation,
or, in the event of an appeal, within 15 days of the decision of the authority
upholding the decision of the village, then representatives of the village
shall enter upon the subject private property and are authorized to take any
and all measures necessary to abate the violation and/or restore the property.
It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, agent or person in possession of
any premises to refuse to allow the government agency or designated contract or
to enter upon the premises for the purposes set forth above.
      (4)   Cost of abatement of the violation. Within 15 days after abatement
of the violation, the owner of the property will be notified of the cost of
abatement, including administrative costs. The property owner may file a
written protest objecting to the amount of the assessment within seven days. If
the amount due is not paid within a timely manner as determined by the decision
of the village or by the expiration of the time in which to file an appeal, the
charges shall become a special assessment against the property and shall
constitute a lien on the property for the amount of the assessment. Any person
violating any of the provisions of this section shall become liable to the
village by reason of such violation. The liability shall be paid in not more
than 12 equal payments.
      (5)   Injunctive relief. It shall be unlawful for any person to violate
any provision or fail to comply with any of the requirements of this section.
If a person has violated or continues to violate the provisions of this
section, the village may petition for a preliminary or permanent injunction
restraining the person from activities which would create further violations or
compelling the person to perform abatement or remediation of the violation.
      (6)   Alternative remedies. In lieu of enforcement proceedings,
penalties, and remedies authorized by this section, the village may impose upon
a violator alternative compensatory action, such as storm drain stenciling,
attendance at compliance workshops, creek cleanup, and the like.
   (O)   Violations deemed a public nuisance. In addition to the enforcement
processes and penalties provided, any condition caused or permitted to exist in
violation of any of the provisions of this section is a threat to public
health, safety, and welfare, and is declared and deemed a nuisance, and may be
summarily abated or restored at the violator's expense, and/or a civil action
to abate, enjoin, or otherwise compel the cessation of such nuisance may be
taken.
   (P)   Attorney fees and expenses. The village may recover all attorneys'
fees, court costs and other expenses associated with enforcement of this
section, including sampling and monitoring expenses.
   (Q)   Remedies not exclusive. The remedies listed in this section are not
exclusive of any other remedies available under any applicable federal, state
or local law and it is within the discretion of the village to seek cumulative
remedies.
(Ord. 61, passed 11-7-07; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter, for which another
penalty is not already provided, shall be subject to the penalty prescribed in
§
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of §
93.55 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree and may be
imprisoned for a period not to exceed 60 days or fined not more than $500, or
both. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which
a violation of any of the provisions of §
93.55 occurs or continues. (Ord. 63-1991, passed 11-20-91)
   (C)   Whoever violates any provision of §
93.63 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. (Ord. 27-1992,
passed 5-6-92)
   (D)   Whoever fails to comply with the corrective actions set forth in §
93.26 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree and may be imprisoned for
a period not to exceed 60 days or fined not more than $500, or both. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed for each day of violation of §
93.26 continues beyond the completion date of the repairs or other corrective
action as specified. Any fine imposed by a court of competent jurisdiction as a
result of a violation of §
93.26 shall become a lien on the property which may be enforced in the Court of
Common Pleas. (Ord. 2014-46, passed 9-3-14)
(Ord. 2014-46, passed 9-3-14; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
CHAPTER 94: SANITATION AND HEALTH
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Application of the chapter
Food and Food Handlers
   
94.10   Definitions
   
94.11   Permitting unclean premises
   
94.12   Equipment
   
94.13   Cleanliness of persons employed
   
94.14   Health of persons employed
   
94.15   Unsanitary food
Communicable Diseases
   
94.25   Attending schools and other public places when infected
   
94.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Willfully leaving vehicles on private or public property, see § 76.041
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 APPLICATION OF THE CHAPTER.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforceable within this municipality
concurrently with the state and federal laws relative to sanitation and health
and to the sale of pure foods and drugs, and the ordinances or orders of the
local health district, and shall not be construed as modifying, repealing,
limiting or affecting in any manner such laws, ordinances or orders.
FOOD AND FOOD HANDLERS
§ 94.10 DEFINITIONS
   For purposes of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   FOOD. Breads, meats, fruits, grains vegetables, milk, juices, and all other
foodstuffs, food products or food ingredients in the natural or processed
state. The expression shall be deemed to include all canned, bottled,
dehydrated or otherwise preserved foods.
   FOOD HANDLER. Wholesale or retail grocers, bakers, butchers, restaurant or
lunch stand operators, dairymen, hucksters, fruit stand operators, canners, or
packers of foodstuffs, cold storage house operators, or other persons
commercially engaged in processing, handling, transporting, storing, or selling
food.
§ 94.11 PERMITTING UNCLEAN PREMISES.
   It shall be unlawful for any food handler to keep or possess food except
when in original cans, packages or containers, in any room, building,
establishment or other place, unless such place:
   (A)   Is adequately lighted to reveal any dirt or unwholesome condition
which might exist.
   (B)   Has smooth, tight floors, walls and ceilings, free from projections,
cracks and crevices and kept clean and sanitary at all times by painting,
scrubbing and cleaning to prevent the accumulation of dirt and filth.
   (C)   Is adequately ventilated and screened against flies and other insects.
   (D)   Is free from all vermin and rodents.
   (E)   Is provided with an ample supply of pure and uncontaminated running
water with sanitary drainage into a cesspool or sewer.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.12 EQUIPMENT.
   Every food handler's establishment shall be equipped with an adequate supply
of furniture, machinery, implements, containers, and utensils for the proper
conduct of such business, and it shall be unlawful for any food handler to have
in possession or use in connection with such business any furniture, machine,
implement, container, utensil, or other article of equipment which is not
thoroughly clean, sanitary, and free from rust or corrosion.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.13 CLEANLINESS OF PERSONS EMPLOYED.
   Every food handler or employee thereof who is engaged in handling food,
except when such food is in original cans, packages or containers, shall keep
his person, aprons, services, caps and other articles of clothing thoroughly
clean and free from dirt and filth. Failure to observe the provisions of this
section shall constitute a misdemeanor and the employer of any person violating
the same shall be deemed an aider and abettor and may be prosecuted as if he
were the principal offender.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.14 HEALTH OF PERSONS EMPLOYED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person suffering from cholera, dysentery,
epidemic or streptococcus sore throat, paratyphoid fever, poliomyelitis (acute
anterior), scarlet fever, tuberculosis, typhoid fever, or who is a carrier of
the organism of any such disease, or who is suffering from any venereal
disease, to serve or handle food, except when such food is in original cans or
containers. The employer of any person violating this section shall be deemed
an aider and abettor and may be prosecuted as if he were the principal
offender.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.15 UNSANITARY FOOD.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any food handler to prepare, manufacture,
possess, sell, or expose or offer for sale any food which is impure, moldy,
tainted, rancid, unwholesome, or otherwise unsanitary or which is adulterated
or misbranded.
   (B)   The regulations of the public health council governing food service
operations and providing uniform sanitation standards are adopted and declared
to be the standards of purity intended and required by this chapter.
Penalty, see §
94.99
COMMUNICABLE DISEASES
§ 94.25 ATTENDING SCHOOLS AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES WHEN INFECTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person infected with or exposed to infection of
influenza, infantile paralysis, cerebrospinal meningitis, measles, chicken pox,
smallpox, whooping cough, cholera, scarlet fever, diphtheria, or other
communicable disease, to attend any public, parochial or private school,
theater or other public gathering. The parents, guardian or other person having
custody or control of any child under 18 years of age, violating this section,
shall be deemed aiders and abettors and may be prosecuted as if they were
principal offenders.
Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Power of municipality to secure its inhabitants from contagious diseases,
see R.C. § 715.37
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter, for which another penalty is
not already provided, shall be fined not more than $100.
CHAPTER 95: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
95.01   Conditions precedent to improving streets
   
95.02   Opening permit required
   
95.03   Application and cash deposit
   
95.04   Restoration of pavement
   
95.05   Barriers around excavations
   
95.06   Warning lights
   
95.07   Sidewalk construction
   
95.08   Unloading on street, sidewalk
   
95.09   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
95.10   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
95.11   Duty to keep sidewalks in repair and clean of ice and snow
   
95.12   Ramped curbing for persons with disabilities
   
95.13   Flagpole along right-of-way
   
95.14   Barricades and warning lights
   
95.15   Sidewalk obstructions; damage or injury
   
95.16   Sidewalk repairs required
   
95.17   Curbside mailbox requirements
   
95.18   Responsibilities of the property owners
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 CONDITIONS PRECEDENT TO IMPROVING STREETS.
   No department of the village shall accept, layout, open, improve, grade,
pave, curb or light any street or other way, unless the street or way has been
accepted or opened or otherwise has received the legal status of a public
street or way prior to the effective date of this code; or unless the street or
way corresponds in location and extent with a street or way shown on a recorded
plat which has been legally accepted by Council.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal power over streets and sidewalks, see R.C. §§ 715.19, 717.01(P),
723.01, 723.011, 723.02, and 729.01
§ 95.02 OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than the street commissioner,
engineer, or the authorized employees or agents of either to make any opening
in any street, alley, sidewalk, or public way of the village unless a permit to
make the opening has been obtained prior to commencement of work.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03 APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single project and
shall be issued by the Mayor or other proper administrative officer.
Application shall be made on a form prescribed by Council, giving the exact
location of the proposed opening, the kind of paving, the area and depth to be
excavated, and such other facts as may be provided for. The permit shall be
issued only after a cash deposit sufficient to cover the cost of restoration
has been posted with the Mayor or other proper administrative officer,
conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory refilling of excavations and
restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 95.04 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the street department
or engineering representative, and in accordance with rules, regulations, and
specifications approved by Council.
   (B)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill the
excavation, restore the surface, and remove all excess materials within the
time specified in the permit or where not specified therein, within a
reasonable time after commencement of the work, the village may proceed without
notice to make such fill and restoration and the deposit referred to in §
95.03 shall be deemed forfeited. Thereupon the deposit shall be paid into the
street repair fund of the village, except such part demanded and paid to the
permittee as the difference between the deposit and the charges of the village
for restoration services performed by it. If the amount of such services
performed by the village should exceed the amount of the deposit, the Clerk-
Treasurer or other proper administrative officer shall proceed to collect the
remainder due from such permittee.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 95.05 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating, or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley, or other public way, shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.06 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley, or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at, or near each end of such obstruction or excavation, and if the
space involved shall exceed 50 feet in extent, then at least one additional
lamp for each added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.07 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be the duty of the Village Engineer to supervise construction or
repair of sidewalks within the municipality. He or she shall cause
specifications to be prepared for the construction of the various kinds of
pavements and transmit the same to Council for approval. When the
specifications are approved, Council shall advertise for proposals to do all
the work which may be ordered by the village in construction and repair of
sidewalks, and shall contract therefor, for a period not exceeding one year,
with the lowest responsible bidder, who shall furnish good and sufficient
sureties for the faithful performance of the work. The Council, if it deems
advisable, may make separate contracts for the different kinds of work with
different parties.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 95.08 UNLOADING ON STREET, SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the village, by
throwing or letting the same fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.09 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   (A)   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk, public ground,
or other public way within the village by erecting thereon any fence, structure
or building, or permitting any fence, structure or building to remain thereon
unless authorized by the Council or other proper municipal official. Each day
that any such fence or building is permitted to remain upon such public way
shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
Cross-reference:
   Driving up on sidewalk prohibited, see §
72.078
Statutory reference:
   Obstructing public grounds, highway, street, or alley, see R.C. § 5589.01
   Penalty, see R.C. § 5589.99(A)
§ 95.10 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant, or
person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any street
or sidewalk, shall permit the same to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles, or substances of any kind, so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)  Penalty, see §
95.99
Cross-reference:
   Placing injurious materials upon street or highway prohibited, see §
72.082
§ 95.11 DUTY TO KEEP SIDEWALKS IN REPAIR AND CLEAN OF ICE AND SNOW.
   (A)   No owner or occupant of lots or lands abutting any sidewalk, curb or
gutter shall fail to keep the sidewalks, curbs and gutters in repair and free
from snow, ice or any nuisance, and to remove from such sidewalks, curbs or
gutters all snow and ice accumulated thereon within a reasonable time, which
will ordinarily not exceed 12 hours after any storm during which the snow and
ice has accumulated.
   (B)   Discharging or depositing of snow by truck, blower or other snow
removal equipment onto any street, sidewalk or highway is prohibited except for
accumulations which are necessary residuals of street or roadway cleaning
operations by the village or public authority.
   (C)   No person, being the operator or the owner or in charge of any vehicle
or equipment removing snow from private property, shall deposit the snow upon
any property except that from which the snow is removed.
   (D)   Persons and/or property owners storing snow or ice in unauthorized
areas as described in division (A), (B), and (C) of this section shall be
responsible for reimbursement to the village for any costs incurred by the
village for removing or relocating such unauthorized storage. Failure to pay
the total cost within 30 days after notice shall entitle the Director of
Finance to certify same to the Summit or Portage County Auditor to be placed
upon the tax duplicate and collected as other taxes are collected according to
law.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2009-78, passed 12-16-09; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 95.12 RAMPED CURBING FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES.
   All new curbs that are authorized by the village, and all existing curbs
which are part of any reconstruction, shall have a ramp with non slip surface
built into the curb at each pedestrian crosswalk so that the sidewalk and
street blend to a common level. These ramps shall be not less than 40 inches
wide and shall, insofar as feasible, be constructed in accordance with the
standard drawings and specifications for ADA compliant curb ramps of the state
Department of Transportation.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18) Penalty, see §
95.99
Statutory reference:
   New curbs to have ramped curing for handicapped, see R.C. § 729.12
§ 95.13 FLAGPOLE ALONG RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   A property owner in the village may install a flag pole between the
sidewalk and curb along the right-of-way of any public street or highway
adjacent to his or her property. A property owner may also install underground
lighting for the display of the flag. Installation of the flag pole and holder
shall meet the following specifications:
      (1)   The flag pole holder shall be embedded in concrete, flush with the
sidewalk or sodded area, and possess a cap or cover which shall be used when
the holder is not used for the purpose of displaying the American flag;
      (2)   The holder shall not exceed two inches in diameter and shall be
installed not less than one foot from the curb;
      (3)   Underground lighting for the flagpole shall be situated within a
reasonable distance to the holder and meet all underwriters' requirements
governing installation. The highest part of the lighting fixture shall at all
times be flush with the sidewalk or sodded area in which it is embedded;
      (4)   At no time shall the flag, flag pole, or holder limit or restrict
the view of pedestrian or vehicular traffic, nor shall a flag, flag pole, or
holder be installed that comes in physical contact, or is likely to come in
physical contact, with overhead wiring.
   (B)   The village may require the issuance of a permit for installation of
flag poles but shall not charge the property owner a permit fee or an
inspection fee in excess of $50 per installation.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18) Penalty, see §
95.99
Statutory reference:
   Wooden flagpole along right-of-way, see R.C. § 723.012
§ 95.14 BARRICADES AND WARNING LIGHTS.
   (A)   No person shall abandon or knowingly permit to remain on public or
private property, any excavation, well, cesspool or structure which is in the
process of construction, reconstruction, repair or alteration unless the same
is adequately protected by suitable barricades and guarded by warning devices
or lights at night so that the condition will not reasonably prove dangerous to
life or limb.
   (B)   No person shall destroy, remove, damage or extinguish any barricade or
warning light that is placed for the protection of the public so as to prevent
injury to life or limb.
   (C)   Any owner or agent in control of a premises upon which a basement,
cellar, well or cistern has been abandoned due to demolition, failure to build
or any other reason shall cause the same to be filled to the ground surface
with rock, gravel, earth or other suitable material.
   (D)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)  Penalty, see §
95.99.
§ 95.15 SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTIONS; DAMAGE OR INJURY.
   (A)   No person shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a sidewalk or
playground any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails or other articles which may
damage property of another or injure any person or animal traveling along or
upon such sidewalk or playground.
   (B)   No person shall walk on, or allow any animal upon, or injure or deface
in any way, any soft or newly laid sidewalk pavement.
   (C)   No person shall place, deposit or maintain any merchandise, goods,
material or equipment upon any sidewalk so as to obstruct pedestrian traffic
thereon except for such reasonable time as may be actually necessary for the
delivery or pick up of such articles. In no case shall the obstruction remain
on such sidewalk for more than one hour.
   (D)   No person shall unload upon, or transport any heavy merchandise,
goods, material or equipment over or across any sidewalk or curb without first
placing some sufficient protection over the pavement to protect against damage
or injury.
   (E)   No person shall allow any cellar or trap door, coal chute or elevator
or lift opening in any sidewalk to remain open without providing suitable
safeguards to protect and warn pedestrian traffic of the dangerous conditions.
   (F)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)  Penalty, see §
95.99.
§ 95.16 SIDEWALK REPAIRS REQUIRED.
   (A)   The Village Safety-Service Director shall, applying the standards
hereinafter set forth, determine which of those sidewalks located within the
village boundaries are defective and in need of repair. For the purpose of this
section, a sidewalk shall be considered defective for any of the following
reasons:
      (1)   Any block having multiple cracks or any single crack larger than ¼-
inch wide.
      (2)   Adjoining sections of block, or portion thereof, whose edges differ
vertically by ¾-inch or more.
      (3)   Blocks having a transverse slope in excess of ¾-inch per horizontal
foot toward the street.
      (4)   Blocks having a reverse slope that impound water to a depth of ½-
inch or more. (Slope toward property.)
      (5)   Blocks having depressions that impound water to a depth of ½-inch
or more.
      (6)   Blocks having disintegrated or deteriorated areas.
   (B)   The owners of each lot and parcel of land bounding and abutting upon
the proposed sidewalks requiring repair shall be notified in writing that such
sidewalks must be repaired.
   (C)   The owners of each lot and parcel of land bounding and abutting upon
the proposed defective sidewalks shall repair that portion of said sidewalk
which abuts his or her property, in accordance with the plans and
specifications now on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer within 30 days
after service of notice as aforesaid.
   (D)   In the event any such abutting property owner does not complete the
repair of that portion of such sidewalks which abut his or her property in
accordance with said plans and specifications and within the time period as
hereinbefore prescribed, then this Council shall cause the same to be done and
the entire cost thereof shall be assessed upon the property of such abutting
property owner.
(Res. 51-1982, passed 8-4-82; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 95.17 CURBSIDE MAILBOX REQUIREMENTS.
   All newly constructed or replaced curbside mailboxes shall require a village
permit and comply with the following installation requirements:
   (A)   The bottom of the mailbox shall be 41-45 inches from the tree lawn.
   (B)   Lateral placement of the mailbox shall be no less than 20 inches from
the back of the curb or edge of the street surface on streets without curbs, as
defined by USPS installation requirements.
   (C)   The mailbox support post shall be of a breakaway support design.
   (D)   The post-to-box attachment shall be of sufficient strength to prevent
the box from separating from the post if a vehicle strikes the post.
   (E)   The property owner shall be responsible for the maintenance of the
curbside mailbox.
   (F)   Installation and construction of curbside mailboxes shall be done in
accordance with the standards outlined in § 150.221 of these Codified
Ordinances.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 95.18 RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE PROPERTY OWNER.
   (A)   The owner of any mailbox located in the public right-of-way after
adoption of this section shall be deemed to have agreed to the terms of this
section as a condition of the owner's continued use of the right-of-way. Any
property owner who places any structure or item of any kind in the right-of-
way, including a mailbox, shall hold the village harmless from any liability
relating to the construction and maintenance of the structure in the right-of-
way or because of any defect therein of said structure or noncompliance with
this section.
   (B)   All persons prior to installing any mailbox in the right-of-way shall
call the village and the Ohio Utility Protection Service and allow two working
days before beginning any work.
(Res. 2013-82, passed 1-8-14; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provisions of this chapter for which another penalty is
not already provided shall be subject to the penalty as prescribed in §
10.99.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
CHAPTER 96: INSURANCE PROCEEDS FOR FIRE DAMAGE
Section
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   General provisions
   
96.03   Procedures for handling proceeds
   
96.04   Liberal construction
Statutory references:
   Abating nuisance/recovering deficiencies, see R.C. § 715.261
   Payment of fire loss claims, see R.C. § 3929.86
   Security payments, see R.C. § 715.26(F)
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING or STRUCTURE. Any improvement constructed on property the loss of
which due to fire is covered by fire insurance secured for the property by any
insured.
   CLERK-TREASURER. The officer designated in the village to receive a portion
of the insurance proceeds payable to any insured for fire loss of a building or
structure.
   FIRE LOSS. A loss to buildings or structures where the amount recoverable
under all applicable fire insurance policies exceeds $5,000 and the loss agreed
to by the named insured(s) and the insurance company or companies equals or
exceeds 60% of the aggregate limits of liability on all fire policies covering
the buildings or structures.
   INSURANCE COMPANY or INSURER. A company doing business in Ohio that provides
fire insurance including the Ohio Fair Plan Underwriting Association as
established in R.C. § 3929.43.
   INSURED. Any owner or beneficiary named in a fire insurance policy covering
buildings or structures damaged by fire.
   PROOF OF REPAIR, REMOVAL, or SECURING. A written statement from a contractor
that such work has been completed and the fire damage restored and verification
by the Zoning Inspector.
(Ord. 72, passed 12-20-00)
§ 96.02 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No insurance company doing business in Ohio shall pay a claim of a
named insured for fire damage to a building or structure located within the
village where the amount recoverable under all applicable policies exceeds
$5,000, unless the following procedures are followed:
      (1)   When the loss agreed to be the insured(s) and the insurance company
or companies equals or exceeds 60% of the aggregate limits of liability on all
fire policies covering the building or structure, the insurance company or
companies shall transfer to the Clerk-Treasurer for the village from the
insurance proceeds either:
         (a)   In the aggregate, $2,000 for each $15,000, and each fraction of
that amount, of a claim; or
         (b)   If at the time that such loss is agreed to, the named insured(s)
have submitted a contractor’s signed estimate of the costs of removing,
repairing, or securing the building or structure, the amount specified in the
estimate.
      (2)   The transfer of proceeds shall be on a pro rata basis by all
companies insuring the building or structure.
      (3)   Policy proceeds remaining after the transfer to the village may be
disbursed in accordance with the policy terms.
      (4)   If the insured(s) submit a contractor’s estimate of the costs of
removing, repairing, or securing the building or structure after the transfer,
the Clerk-Treasurer shall return to the named insured(s) the amount of the
funds deposited with the village in excess of the estimate, provided the
village has not commenced to remove or repair or secure the building or
structure.
   (B)   Proof of payment by an insurance company or companies in compliance
with this section is conclusive evidence of the discharge of its obligation to
the insured under the policy to the extent of the payment made to the village.
   (C)   An insurance company making payment of policy proceeds under this
section shall have the full benefit of such payment including all rights of
subrogation and of assignment.
   (D)   This section shall not be construed to prohibit the village and the
named insured(s) from entering in to an agreement that permits the transfer of
funds to the named insured(s) if some other reasonable disposition of the
damaged property has been negotiated.
(Ord. 72, passed 12-20-00)
§ 96.03 PROCEDURES FOR HANDLING PROCEEDS.
   (A)   Upon receipt of insurance proceeds as authorized by this chapter, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall place the proceeds in a separate fund to be used solely
as security against the total cost incurred by the village for removing,
repairing, or securing a building or structure damaged by fire loss.
   (B)   When transferring funds to the village pursuant to this chapter, an
insurance company shall provide the village with the name and address of the
named insured(s). The village shall then contact the named insured(s), certify
that the proceeds have been received by the village and notify them that the
following procedures will be followed:
      (1)   The fund shall be returned to the named insured(s) no later than 60
days after the Clerk- Treasurer receives proof that repairs, removal, or
securing of the building or structure has been completed, provided that the
village has not incurred any costs for such repairs, removal, or securing.
      (2)   If the village has incurred any costs for repairs, removal, or
securing of the building or structure, the costs shall be paid from the fund,
and if excess funds remain, the village shall transfer the remaining funds to
the insured(s) no later than 60 days after all such costs have been paid.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit the ability of the
village to recover any deficiency under R.C. § 715.261.
(Ord. 72, passed 12-20-00)
§ 96.04 LIBERAL CONSTRUCTION.
   This chapter shall be liberally construed to accomplish its purpose to deter
the commission of arson and related crimes, to discourage the abandonment of
property, and to prevent urban blight and deterioration.
(Ord. 72, passed 12-20-00)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL BUSINESS LICENSING
      
111.   TAXICABS
      
112.   VENDORS, PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
113.   COMMERCIAL AMUSEMENTS
      
114.   INTOXICATING LIQUORS
      
115.   CABLE TELEVISION
      
116.   SKILL AMUSEMENT GAMES
      
117.   SMALL CELL FACILITIES AND WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURES WITHIN THE RIGHT-
OF-WAY
      
118.   FALSE ALARMS
      
119.   SPECIAL EVENTS
      
120.   MOBILE FOOD TRUCKS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL BUSINESS LICENSING
Section
   
110.01   Licenses required to engage in certain trades, businesses, or
professions
   
110.02   Application for license
   
110.03   Issuance of license
   
110.04   Date and duration of license
   
110.05   License not transferable
   
110.06   License certificate to be displayed
   
110.07   Revocation or suspension
   
110.08   Appeal and review
 
   
110.99   General penalty for Title XI
§ 110.01 LICENSES REQUIRED TO ENGAGE IN CERTAIN TRADES, BUSINESSES, OR
PROFESSIONS.
   No person shall engage in any of the trades, businesses, or professions for
which licenses are required by Title XI or by any other ordinance or provision
of this code without first applying for and obtaining a license from the clerk
or other duly authorized issuing authority.
§ 110.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   All original applications for licenses, unless otherwise specifically
provided, shall be made to the municipal clerk in writing upon forms to be
furnished by him and shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the applicant and of each officer, partner or business
associate;
      (2)   His present occupation and place of business;
      (3)   His place of residence for five years next preceding the date of
application;
      (4)   The nature and location of the intended business or enterprise;
      (5)   The period of time for which the license is desired;
      (6)   A description of the merchandise to be sold, if for a vendor;
      (7)   Such other information concerning the applicant and his business as
may be reasonable and proper, having regard to the nature of the license
desired.
   (B)   Renewal of an annual license may be granted to a licensee in good
standing upon the original application, unless otherwise provided.
   (C)   With each original or renewal application, the applicant shall deposit
the fee required for the license requested.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful knowingly to make any false statement or
representation in the license application.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   Upon receipt of such application for a license, accompanied by the proper
fee, if approval by another officer or department is not required, the Clerk-
Treasurer, by and with the written approval of the Mayor, or other chief
administrative officer, shall forthwith deposit the fee in the treasury and
issue to the applicant a proper license certificate signed by the Clerk-
Treasurer and Mayor, or other chief administrative officer. If for any reason
the license is not issued, this fee less $5 to cover expenses of considering
such application, shall be returned to the applicant.
§ 110.04 DATE AND DURATION OF LICENSE.
   A license shall not be valid beyond the expiration date therein specified
and, unless otherwise provided, shall not extend beyond December 31 of the year
issued. However, at any time after December 14 licenses may be issued for the
ensuing calendar year. Unless otherwise specified the full annual fee will be
required of licensees irrespective of the date of issue of the license.
§ 110.05 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Every license shall be issued to a real party in interest in the enterprise
or business, and unless otherwise provided no license shall be assigned or
transferred.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 LICENSE CERTIFICATE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   Every licensee carrying on business at a fixed location shall keep posted in
a prominent place upon the licensed premises, the license certificate. Other
licensees shall carry their license certificates at all times and whenever
requested by any officer or citizen, shall exhibit the same.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Any license may be revoked by the Mayor or other chief administrative
officer at any time for conditions or considerations which, had they existed at
the time of issuance, would have been valid grounds for its denial; for any
misrepresentation of a material fact in the application discovered after
issuance of the license; for violation of any provision of this chapter or
other law or ordinance relating to the operation of the business or enterprise
for which the license has been issued; or upon conviction of a licensee for any
federal, state or municipal law or ordinance involving moral turpitude.
   (B)   The revocation shall become effective upon notice served upon such
licensee or posted upon the premises affected.
   (C)   As a preliminary to revocation, the Mayor or other chief
administrative officer may issue an order suspending the license, which shall
become effective immediately upon service of written notice to such licensee.
This notice shall specify the reason for suspension, and may provide conditions
under which reinstatement of the license may be obtained. Upon compliance with
such conditions within the time specified, the license may be restored.
§ 110.08 APPEAL AND REVIEW.
   In case any applicant has been denied a license, or if his license has been
revoked or suspended, the applicant or licensee as the case may be, shall
within three business days have the right to appeal to the Council from such
denial, revocation, or suspension. Notice of appeal shall be filed in writing
with the Clerk-Treasurer who shall fix the time and place for a hearing which
shall be held not later than one week thereafter. The Clerk-Treasurer shall
notify the Mayor and all members of Council of the time and place of such
hearing not less than 24 hours in advance thereof. Three members of Council
shall constitute a quorum to hear such appeal. The appellant may appear and be
heard in person or by counsel. If, after hearing, a majority of the members of
Council present at such meeting declare in favor of the applicant, the license
shall be issued or fully reinstated as the case may be; otherwise the order
appealed from shall become final.
§ 110.99 GENERAL PENALTY FOR TITLE XI.
   Whoever violates any provision of this title, for which another penalty is
not already provided, shall be fined not more than $100.
CHAPTER 111: TAXICABS
Section
   
111.01   Definition
   
111.02   Taxicab; license fee
   
111.03   Application for license
   
111.04   Issuance of license
   
111.05   Taxicab stands
   
111.06   Displaying rates; excessive charges
   
111.07   All drivers to be licensed
   
111.08   Suspension or revocation of license
   
111.09   Renewal of license
   
111.10   Vehicle inspection; requirements
§ 111.01 DEFINITION.
   For purposes of this chapter, TAXICAB shall mean and include any vehicle
used to carry passengers for hire but not operating on a fixed route.
Statutory reference:
   Power of municipality to regulate taxicabs, see R.C. § 715.66
§ 111.02 TAXICAB; LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall operate or cause to be operated
a taxicab or proffer the services of any vehicle as a taxicab unless the owner
of the vehicle has obtained a taxicab license covering such vehicle.
   (B)   Every such taxicab license shall expire on December 31 for the year in
which issued. Licenses issued on or after July 1 of any year shall be issued at
½ the annual license fee herein provided.
   (C)   The annual license fee for each taxicab shall be $10.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   In addition to the information required by §
110.02, each applicant for a taxicab license shall present and file with the
Clerk-Treasurer his signed application setting forth the trade name under which
he intends to do business; the number of vehicles and a general description of
each vehicle for which a license is desired, the marking or lettering to be
used thereon; and any other information required by the Clerk-Treasurer
pertinent to the issuance of such license.
§ 111.04 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The Mayor or other chief administrative officer shall investigate and
hold a hearing upon each application for a license. If the Mayor or other chief
administrative officer finds upon such investigation and hearing that the
public convenience and necessity do not justify the operation of the vehicle
for which license is desired, he shall forthwith notify the applicant of his
findings. If he finds from such investigation and hearing that the public
convenience and necessity do justify the operation of the vehicle or vehicles
for which license is desired, he shall forthwith notify the applicant. Within
60 days thereafter, applicant shall furnish and file with the clerk the
following:
      (1)   A full transcript of the information appearing on the certificate
of title of each vehicle for which license is desired, and the state license
number of each such vehicle.
      (2)   An unexpired official certificate from an authorized motor vehicle
inspection station of the municipality, or if none exists from a neighboring
city in Ohio, that each vehicle for which a license is desired has been
inspected and tested and found to meet the standards fixed by statute and that
each such vehicle is roadworthy and safe for operation as a taxicab.
      (3)   The name of each person who will operate such taxicab, with
chauffeur's license number of each such person.
      (4)   Insurance or bond.
         (a)   A policy or policies of liability insurance issued for the life
of the license applied for or longer, by a responsible insurance company,
approved as to sufficiency by the treasurer and as to legality by the
solicitor, providing indemnity for or protection to the applicant against loss
resulting from the operation of each such taxicab to the extent of $10,000 on
account of injury or death of one person in any one accident; $20,000 on
account of injury or death of more than one person in any one accident; and
$5,000 for property damage caused in any one accident.
         (b)   In lieu of the policies of insurance above described, applicant
may furnish a bond binding the principal and sureties to liability for the
payment of a judgment or judgments to the extent of $10,000, $20,000, and
$5,000 respectively, as above set forth, with at least two approved persons as
sureties or one approved corporate surety approved as to sufficiency by the
Clerk-Treasurer and as to legality by the Solicitor.
   (B)   Thereupon, the Mayor or other chief administrative officer shall
examine the supporting information and documents and being satisfied that
applicant is the owner of any such vehicle, that the same is a safe and fit
conveyance, and that satisfactory insurance or bond has been issued and is in
force thereon, he shall, upon payment of the prescribed license fee, issue a
license to the applicant.
   (C)   A certified copy of the license shall be exhibited in a prominent
place in each taxicab at all times.
§ 111.05 TAXICAB STANDS.
   At the time of issuing the license, the Mayor or other chief administrative
officer shall designate a regular parking space for the taxicab or taxicabs,
and he may prescribe rules for usage of this stand suitable to applicant's
business and agreeable with the public convenience and welfare.
§ 111.06 DISPLAYING RATES; EXCESSIVE CHARGES.
   Every taxicab shall display at all times a printed list of the fares and
rates to be charged passengers for transportation; and it shall be unlawful for
any owner or driver to charge any amount in excess of such printed rates unless
by mutual agreement between passenger and driver entered into before leaving
the point of departure.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 111.07 ALL DRIVERS TO BE LICENSED.
   No person under 21 years of age and no person other than a chauffeur duly
licensed as such under the laws of the state shall operate a taxicab on any
street or alley of the municipality.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 111.08 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Whenever a licensee shall for a period of 60 days fail to make a reasonable
or consistent effort to operate any such taxicab or taxicabs the Mayor or other
chief administrative officer may either suspend or revoke such license pursuant
to the provisions of §
110.07. This power to suspend or revoke shall not limit the powers granted to
the Mayor or other chief administrative officer elsewhere in this code.
§ 111.09 RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   All owners of taxicabs hereby licensed, at the completion of the year for
which such license was issued, shall be entitled to a renewal for each
succeeding year without a finding of convenience or necessity providing all
other requirements of this code have been complied with.
§ 111.10 VEHICLE INSPECTION; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or other person having possession
or control of any taxicab, to operate it upon the streets unless the vehicle
has an unexpired seal of inspection indicating that it has been duly inspected
and found safe and roadworthy within the preceding six months.
   (B)   If any such taxicab is damaged by reason of a collision, or from any
other cause, it shall be unlawful for the owner or other person having
possession or control thereof to operate it upon the streets unless the vehicle
has been tested and approved at an authorized inspection station within 24
hours after such vehicle has been returned to service.
   (C)   A violation of this section shall constitute grounds for revocation of
a taxicab license.
Penalty, see §
110.99
CHAPTER 112: VENDORS, PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   License required
   
112.03   Application
   
112.04   Bond required
   
112.05   License fees
   
112.06   Exceptions; when license not required
   
112.07   Badges and hours
   
112.08   Mogadore residents
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   ITINERANT VENDOR. Includes any person, natural or artificial who engages in
or conducts a temporary or transient business of selling goods, wares, and
merchandise within the municipality with the intention of continuing in such
business in any one location for a period of not more than four months and who
for the purpose of carrying on such business hires, leases, or occupies in
whole or in part any room, building, or structure for the exhibition and sale
of such goods, wares, and merchandise. The term does not apply to hawkers or
peddlers; to vendors engaged in the sale of food or food products for human
consumption; to commercial travelers or selling agents when making sales in the
usual course of business; or to salesmen who sell by sample for future
delivery.
   PEDDLER. Any person who sells tangible or intangible commodities from house
to house, store to store, or on the streets or in any public place; his sales
are not made from one established spot excepting where they are made in a
street or other public place and he makes delivery at the time of the sale.
Whether or not he collects at the same time is immaterial.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. The term SOLICITOR also includes
any individual who goes from house to house for the purpose of canvassing;
soliciting contributions; or espousing political, religious, or other
philosophical or economic beliefs or opinions and who routinely engages in such
activities himself or on behalf of any corporation or organization which
routinely or in furtherance of its purpose engages in such activities.
(Ord. 63, passed 12-17-97)
Statutory reference:
   Power of municipality to regulate transient dealers, see R.C. § 715.64.
§ 112.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No itinerant vendor, peddler, or solicitor shall engage in such business or
above-described activities within the municipality without first obtaining a
license therefor in compliance with this chapter and Chapter 110. Any license
granted under this chapter is subject to revocation or suspension pursuant to §
110.07, or for conducting the business or activities for which the license was
issued in an unlawful manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of
the peace or to constitute a menace to the health, safety, or general welfare
of the public.
(Ord. 63, passed 12-17-97) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Applicants for licenses under this chapter must file with the Clerk-
Treasurer, a sworn application in writing on a form prescribed by the Mayor
which form shall elicit information showing the reputation and character of the
applicant; the activities to be conducted in the village for which the license
is sought; if applicable, the financial responsibility of such applicant and/or
his principal and the ability of such applicant or his principal to deliver any
merchandise or product sought to be sold; including, but not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Name and description of the applicant;
      (2)   Permanent home address and full local address of the applicant;
      (3)   A brief description of the nature of the business and the goods to
be sold or the activities to be conducted;
      (4)   If employed, the name and address of the employer, together with
credentials establishing such relationship;
      (5)   The length of time for which the license is desired, not to exceed
one year;
      (6)   In the case of the sale of goods or the taking of orders, the place
where the goods or property proposed to be sold or orders taken for the sale
thereof are manufactured or produced or such goods or products are located at
the time such application is filed and the proposed method of delivery;
      (7)   Two copies of a photograph of the applicant taken within 60 days
immediately prior to the date of the filing of the application, which picture
shall not be less than 2" x 2" showing the head and shoulders of the applicant
in a clear and distinguishing manner;
      (8)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted
of any crime, misdemeanor or violation of any municipal ordinance (other than
minor traffic violations), the nature of the offense, and the punishment or
penalty assessed therefor; and
      (9)   At the time of filing the application, in addition to the license
fee, a fee of $25 shall be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer to cover the cost of the
investigation of the facts stated therein.
   (B)   Upon receipt of such application, the Clerk-Treasurer shall forward
the application to the Mayor who shall cause such investigation of the
applicant as the Mayor deems necessary for the protection of the public good.
Such investigation shall be concluded within ten business days following the
Mayor's receipt of such application from the Clerk-Treasurer. Upon completion
of the investigation, the Mayor shall have the discretion to grant or refuse to
grant a license if he finds that a reasonable person would conclude that the
applicant may perpetrate a fraud or other offense upon the residents of the
municipality or that the applicant may create a nuisance in conducting the
activities for which the license is sought, considering, among other factors,
the applicant's financial standing, the Mayor's determination that the
applicant possesses unsatisfactory character or, if applicable, financial
responsibility, or that the applicant has been convicted of or has pleaded
guilty to a felony or a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 63, passed 12-17-97)
§ 112.04 BOND REQUIRED.
   Every applicant shall file with the Clerk-Treasurer a surety bond, running
to the municipality in the amount of not less than $100 nor more than $1,000,
as determined by the Mayor with surety acceptable to and approved by the Mayor,
conditioned that the applicant shall comply fully with all of the ordinances of
the municipality and the statutes of the state and guaranteeing to any citizen
of the municipality that all money paid as a down payment will be accounted for
and applied according to the representations of the solicitor and further
guaranteeing to any citizen of the municipality doing business with the
solicitor, that the property purchased will be delivered according to the
representations of the solicitor. Action on the bond may be brought in the name
of the municipality to the use or benefit of the aggrieved person.
(Ord. 63, passed 12-17-97) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   Itinerant vendor; license fee. Every itinerant vendor shall obtain a
license before engaging in business, and shall pay therefor a fee of $25 for
each week that such business is carried on. This license shall terminate
automatically with the last day for which sum shall have been paid.
   (B)   Peddlers by hand. Every peddler selling goods of any kind carried by
hand shall obtain a license before engaging in business and shall pay therefor
a fee of $100 per year.
   (C)   Peddlers from hand-drawn vehicles. Every peddler selling fruits,
vegetables, or goods of any kind from vehicles drawn by hand shall obtain a
license before engaging in business and shall pay therefor a fee of $100 per
year for each vehicle used for such purpose.
   (D)   Peddlers from other vehicles. Every peddler selling fruits,
vegetables, or goods of every kind from vehicles drawn by means other than
hand, shall obtain a license before engaging in business and shall pay therefor
a fee of $100 per year for each vehicle used for such purpose.
   (E)   Solicitor; license fee. Every solicitor shall obtain a license before
engaging in business and shall pay therefor a fee of $100 per year.
(Ord. 63, passed 12-17-97) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 EXCEPTIONS; WHEN LICENSE NOT REQUIRED.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any person who by state or
federal law or constitutional provision has been exempted from obtaining such
license; nor to any sale under order of court or at a bona fide auction; nor to
any sale at wholesale to a retail dealer.
(Ord. 63, passed 12-17-97)
§ 112.07 BADGES AND HOURS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall issue to each licensee at the time of delivery of his
license, a badge which shall contain the words “licensed solicitor”, the period
for which the license is issued, and the number of the license, in letters and
figures easily discernible from a distance of ten feet, and a picture of the
licensee. Anyone being issued a license pursuant to this chapter shall, when
engaged in the activities for which the license was issued, prominently and
conspicuously display the identification badge. The wearing or display of the
identification badge by anyone other than the individual to whom the license
was issued shall be considered a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Anyone licensed under this chapter shall only be permitted to engage
in the activity for which the license was issued during the hours of 10:00 a.m.
to 4:00 p.m.
(Ord. 63, passed 12-17-97) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08 MOGADORE RESIDENTS.
   The provisions and requirement of this chapter shall have no application to
residents of the village soliciting or seeking contributions on behalf of bona
fide religious, charitable, educational or civic organizations or entities
located within the village.
(Ord. 63, passed 12-17-97)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be subject to the
penalties provided under §
10.99.
(Ord. 63, passed 12-17-97)
CHAPTER 113: COMMERCIAL AMUSEMENTS
Section
   
113.01   Bowling; billiards and pool
   
113.02   Circuses, menageries, carnivals
   
113.03   Deposit required
   
113.04   License fee for public entertainment or exhibition
   
113.05   License fee may be waived in civic interest
§ 113.01 BOWLING; BILLIARDS AND POOL.
   (A)   Each proprietor of a billiard or pool table or of a bowling alley, or
a combination of both, shall pay an annual license fee of $25 for one such
table; $25 for one such alley; and $10 for each additional table, or each
additional alley.
   (B)   It is unlawful to operate any such table or alley between the hours of
midnight and 6:00 a.m.
   (C)   It is unlawful to permit betting or gambling in connection with the
use of such table or alley.
Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Power of municipality to regulate billiards and bowling alleys, see R.C. §
715.51
§ 113.02 CIRCUSES, MENAGERIES, CARNIVALS.
   (A)   Each person, desiring to conduct, stage or give a circus, menagerie,
carnival, sideshow, musical or minstrel entertainment, or exhibition of
monsters or freaks of nature, for which money or reward is demanded or
received, shall first obtain a license and pay the license fee or fees provided
herein.
   (B)   In addition to the requirements of §
110.02, the applicant for a license to conduct, stage, or give such exhibition
shall give at least one week's notice in writing to the Mayor, stating the
dates of the performances, and the location at which they are to be presented.
The Mayor or other chief administrative officer shall give his consent to the
issuance of such license if he deems that the location is suitable for the
purpose; that it will properly accommodate the patrons; that the nature of the
performance or exhibition is morally proper; and that the use of said location
will not throw too great a burden upon the police and fire departments.
   (C)   No circus, menagerie, or carnival shall be given for more than two
consecutive days, except in cases where Council by special resolution shall
allow a longer period, or where such exhibition is to be conducted on municipal
property and the use thereof for a longer period shall have been approved by
Council.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 113.03 DEPOSIT REQUIRED.
   At the time application for a license is made, where use of municipal
grounds is contemplated, the applicant shall deposit with the Clerk-Treasurer a
cash bond of not less than $25, nor more than $100, conditioned upon the
restoration and cleaning up of the grounds in a manner satisfactory to the
Mayor or other chief administrative officer. In the event the grounds are
restored and cleaned up properly following the exhibition, the deposit shall be
returned; otherwise the same shall be forfeited to the municipality.
§ 113.04 LICENSE FEE FOR PUBLIC ENTERTAINMENT OR EXHIBITION.
   The fee for such license shall be as follows: For each circus, carnival,
side show, musical or minstrel entertainment, or exhibition of monsters or
freaks of nature, $50 for the first day, $25 for each day thereafter. However,
such fee shall not amount to more than $150 in any one week.
§ 113.05 LICENSE FEE MAY BE WAIVED IN CIVIC INTEREST.
   The Mayor or other chief administrative officer may, in his discretion,
grant without cost a license for the holding of a circus, carnival, side show,
musical or minstrel entertainment for not more than six consecutive days, where
all of the performances are fostered and supervised by civic interests of the
municipality, and a substantial part of the funds derived therefrom is expended
for charitable or civic purposes.
CHAPTER 114: INTOXICATING LIQUORS
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Exemptions from chapter
   
114.03   Restrictions applicable to sale of beer and intoxicating liquor for
consumption on the premises
   
114.04   Restrictions on sale of beer and liquor
   
114.05   Permit required; activities prohibited without permit
   
114.06   Illegal transportation prohibited
   
114.07   Open container prohibited; exception
   
114.08   Underage person shall not purchase intoxicating liquor or beer
   
114.09   Prohibitions; minors under 18 years; low-alcohol beverages
   
114.10   Misrepresentation to obtain alcoholic beverage for a minor prohibited
   
114.11   Misrepresentation by a minor under 21 years
   
114.12   Sale to underage persons prohibited
   
114.13   Posting of card
   
114.14   Good faith acceptances of spurious identification
   
114.15   Consumption in motor vehicle prohibited
   
114.16   Hours of sale or consumption
   
114.17   Obstructing search of premises prohibited
   
114.18   Illegal possession of intoxicating liquor prohibited
   
114.19   Sale or possession of diluted liquor and refilled containers
prohibited
   
114.20   Keeping place where beer or intoxicating liquors are sold in violation
of law
   
114.21   Intoxicating liquors shall not be sold in brothels
   
114.22   Use of intoxicating liquor in a public dance hall prohibited;
exceptions
   
114.23   Poisonously adulterated liquors
   
114.24   Tavern keeper permitting rioting or drunkenness
   
114.25   Notice of action to prohibit liquor business
   
114.26   Procedure when injunction violated
   
114.27   Liquor transaction scans
   
114.28   Affirmative defenses
   
114.29   Alcohol vaporizing devices prohibited
 
   
114.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, implied consent, see §§
73.01 and
73.011
Statutory reference:
   Liquor permits, see R.C. Chapter 4303
   Local option elections, see R.C. §§ 4301.32 et seq.
   Use of license to violate liquor laws; suspension; procedures, see R.C. §
4510.33
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. Ethyl alcohol, whether rectified or diluted with water or not,
whatever its origin may be, and includes synthetic ethyl alcohol. The term does
not include denatured alcohol and wood alcohol.
   AT RETAIL. For use or consumption by the purchaser and not for resale.
   BEER. 
      (1)   Includes all beverages brewed or fermented wholly or in part from
malt products and containing 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume.
      (2)   Beer, regardless of the percent of alcohol by volume, is not
intoxicating liquor for purposes of this code, the Ohio Revised Code, or any
rules adopted under it.
   CIDER. All liquids that are fit to use for beverage purposes that contain
0.5% of alcohol by volume, but not more than 6% of alcohol by weight that are
made through the normal alcoholic fermentation of the juice of sound, ripe
apples, including, without limitation, flavored, sparkling, or carbonated cider
and cider made from pure condensed apple must.
   CLUB. A corporation or association of individuals organized in good faith
for social, recreational, benevolent, charitable, fraternal, political,
patriotic, or athletic purposes, which is the owner, lessor, or occupant of a
permanent building or part of a permanent building operated solely for such
purposes, membership in which entails the prepayment of regular dues, and
includes the place so operated.
   COMMUNITY FACILITY. Means either of the following:
      (1)   Any convention, sports or entertainment facility or complex, or any
combination of these, that is used by or accessible to the general public and
that is owned or operated in whole or in part by the state, a state agency, or
a political subdivision of the state or that is leased from, or located on
property owned by or leased from, the state, a state agency, a political
subdivision of the state, or a convention facilities authority created pursuant
to R.C. § 351.02;
      (2)   An area designated as a community entertainment district pursuant
to R.C. § 4301.80.
   CONTROLLED ACCESS ALCOHOL AND BEVERAGE CABINET. A closed container, either
refrigerated, in whole or in part, or nonrefrigerated, access to the interior
of which is restricted by means of a device that requires the use of a key,
magnetic card, or similar device and from which beer, intoxicating liquor,
other beverages, or food may be sold.
   HOTEL. The same meaning as in R.C. § 3731.01, subject to the exceptions
mentioned in R.C. § 3731.03.
   INTOXICATING LIQUOR and LIQUOR. All liquids and compounds, other than beer,
containing 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume which are fit to use for beverage
purposes, from whatever source and by whatever process produced, by whatever
name called, and whether they are medicated, proprietary, or patented.
INTOXICATING LIQUOR and LIQUOR include cider and alcohol, and all solids and
confections which contain 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume.
   LOW-ALCOHOL BEVERAGE. Any brewed or fermented malt product or any product
made from the fermented juices of grapes, fruits, or other agricultural
products that contains either no alcohol or less than 0.5% of alcohol by
volume. The beverages described in this definition do not include a soft drink
such as root beer, birch beer, or ginger beer.
   MANUFACTURE. All processes by which beer or intoxicating liquor is produced,
whether by distillation, rectifying, fortifying, blending, fermentation,
brewing, or in any other manner.
   MANUFACTURER. Any person engaged in the business of manufacturing beer or
intoxicating liquor.
   MIXED BEVERAGES. Include bottled and prepared cordials, cocktails,
highballs, and solids and confections that are obtained by mixing any type of
whiskey, neutral spirits, brandy, gin or other distilled spirits with, or over,
carbonated or plain water, pure juices from flowers and plants, and other
flavoring materials. The completed product shall contain not less than 0.5% of
alcohol by volume and not more than 21% of alcohol by volume. The phrase
includes the contents of a pod.
   NIGHTCLUB. A place habitually operated for profit, where food is served for
consumption on the premises, and one or more forms of amusement are provided or
permitted for a consideration that may be in the form of a cover charge or may
be included in the price of the food and beverages, or both, purchased by
patrons.
   PERSON. Includes firms and corporations.
   PHARMACY. An establishment as defined in R.C. § 4729.01, that is under the
management or control of a licensed pharmacist in accordance with R.C. §
4729.27.
   POD. Means a sealed capsule made from plastic, glass, aluminum, or a
combination thereof to which all of the following apply:
      (1)   The capsule contains intoxicating liquor of more than 21% of
alcohol by volume.
      (2)   The capsule also contains a concentrated flavoring mixture.
      (3)   The contents of the capsule are not readily accessible or intended
for consumption unless certain manufacturer’s processing instructions are
followed.
      (4)   The instructions include releasing the contents of the capsule
through a machine specifically designed to process the contents.
      (5)   After being properly processed according to the manufacturer’s
instructions, the final product produced from the capsule contains not less
than 0.5% of alcohol by volume and not more than 21% of alcohol by volume.
   RESTAURANT. A place located in a permanent building provided with space and
accommodations wherein, in consideration of the payment of money, hot meals are
habitually prepared, sold, and served at noon and evening, as the principal
business of the place. The term does not include pharmacies, confectionery
stores, lunch stands, nightclubs, and filling stations.
   SALE and SELL. The exchange, barter, gift, offer for sale, sale,
distribution, and delivery of any kind, and the transfer of title or possession
of beer and intoxicating liquor either by constructive or actual delivery by
any means or devices whatever, including the sale of beer or intoxicating
liquor by means of a controlled access alcohol and beverage cabinet pursuant to
R.C. § 4301.21. Such terms do not include the mere solicitation of orders for
beer or intoxicating liquor from the holders of permits issued by the Division
of Liquor Control authorizing the sale of the beer or intoxicating liquor, but
no solicitor shall solicit any orders until the solicitor has been registered
with the Division pursuant to R.C. § 4303.25.
   SALES AREA OR TERRITORY. An exclusive geographic area or territory that is
assigned to a particular A or B permit holder and that either has one or more
political subdivisions as its boundaries or consists of an area of land with
readily identifiable geographic boundaries. SALES AREA OR TERRITORY does not
include, however, any particular retail location in an exclusive geographic
area or territory that has been assigned to another A or B permit holder before
April 9, 2001.
   SEALED CONTAINER. Any container having a capacity of not more than 128 fluid
ounces, the opening of which is closed to prevent the entrance of air.
   SPIRITUOUS LIQUOR. All intoxicating liquors containing more than 21% of
alcohol by volume. The phrase does not include the contents of a pod.
   VEHICLE. All means of transportation by land, by water, or by air, and
everything made use of in any way for such transportation.
   WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTOR and DISTRIBUTOR. A person engaged in the business of
selling to retail dealers for purposes of resale.
   WINE. All liquids fit to use for beverage purposes containing not less than
0.5% of alcohol by volume and not more than 21% of alcohol by volume, which is
made from the fermented juices of grapes, fruits, or other agricultural
products. Except as provided in R.C. § 4301.01(B)(3), the term does not include
cider.
(R.C. §§ 4301.01, 4301.244)
§ 114.02 EXEMPTIONS FROM CHAPTER.
   The provisions of this chapter do not prevent the following:
   (A)   The storage of intoxicating liquor in bonded warehouses, established
in accordance with the Acts of Congress and under the regulation of the United
States, located in the municipality, or the transportation of intoxicating
liquor to or from bonded warehouses of the United States wherever located.
   (B)   A bona fide resident of this state who is the owner of a warehouse
receipt from obtaining or transporting to the resident’s residence for the
resident’s own consumption and not for resale spirituous liquor stored in a
government bonded warehouse in this state or in another state prior to December
1933, subject to such terms as are prescribed by the Division of Liquor
Control.
   (C)   The manufacture of cider from fruit for the purpose of making vinegar,
and nonintoxicating cider and fruit juices for use and sale.
   (D)   A licensed physician or dentist from administering or dispensing
intoxicating liquor or alcohol to a patient in good faith in the actual course
of the practice of the physician’s or dentist’s profession.
   (E)   The sale of alcohol to physicians, dentists, druggists, veterinary
surgeons, manufacturers, hospitals, infirmaries, or medical or educational
institutions using the alcohol for medicinal, mechanical, chemical or
scientific purposes.
   (F)   The sale, gift, or keeping for sale by druggists and others of any of
the medicinal preparations manufactured in accordance with the formulas
prescribed by the United States Pharmacopoeia and National Formulary, patent or
proprietary preparations, and other bona fide medicinal and technical
preparations, which contain no more alcohol than is necessary to hold the
medicinal agents in solution and to preserve the same, which are manufactured
and sold as medicines and not as beverages, are unfit for use for beverage
purposes, and the sale of which does not require the payment of a United States
liquor dealer's tax.
   (G)   The manufacture and sale of tinctures or of toilet, medicinal and
antiseptic preparations and solutions not intended for internal human use nor
to be sold as beverages, and which are unfit for beverage purposes, if upon the
outside of each bottle, box, or package of which there is printed in English,
conspicuously and legibly, the quantity by volume of alcohol in the preparation
or solution.
   (H)   The manufacture and keeping for sale of the food products known as
flavoring extracts when manufactured and sold for cooking, culinary or
flavoring purposes, and which are unfit for use for beverage purposes.
   (I)   The lawful sale of wood alcohol or of ethyl alcohol for external use
when combined with other substances as to make it unfit for internal use.
   (J)   The manufacture, sale, and transport of ethanol or ethyl alcohol for
use as fuel. As used in this division, ETHANOL has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 122.075.
   (K)   The purchase and importation into the municipality or the purchase at
wholesale from A or B permit holders in this state of beer and intoxicating
liquor for use in manufacturing processes of nonbeverage food products under
terms prescribed by the Division, provided that the terms prescribed by the
Division shall not increase the cost of the beer or intoxicating liquor to any
person, firm or corporation purchasing and importing it into this municipality
or purchasing it from an A or B permit holder for that use.
   (L)   Any resident of this state or any member of the armed forces of the
United States who has attained the age of 21 years from bringing into this
municipality for personal use and not for resale not more than one liter of
spirituous liquor, 4.5 liters of wine, or 288 ounces of beer in any 30 day
period, and the same is free of any tax consent fee when the resident or member
of the armed forces physically possesses and accompanies the spirituous liquor,
wine or beer on returning from a foreign country, another state, or an insular
possession of the United States.
   (M)   Persons at least 21 years of age who collect ceramic commemorative
bottles containing spirituous liquor which have unbroken federal tax stamps on
them from selling or trading the bottles to other collectors. The bottles must
originally have been purchased at retail from the Division, legally imported
under division (K) of this section, or legally imported pursuant to a supplier
registration issued by the Division. The sales shall be for the purpose of
exchanging a ceramic commemorative bottle between private collectors and shall
not be for the purpose of selling the spirituous liquor for personal
consumption. The sale or exchange authorized by this division shall not occur
on the premises of any permit holder, shall not be made in connection with the
business of any permit holder, and shall not be made in connection with any
mercantile business.
   (N)   The sale of beer or intoxicating liquor without a liquor permit at a
private residence, not more than five times per calendar year at a residence
address, at an event that has the following characteristics:
      (1)   The event is for a charitable, benevolent, or political purpose,
but shall not include any event the proceeds of which are for the profit or
gain of any individual;
      (2)   The event has in attendance not more than 50 people;
      (3)   The event shall be for a period not to exceed 12 hours;
      (4)   The sale of beer and intoxicating liquor at the event shall not
take place between 2:30 a.m. and 5:30 a.m.;
      (5)   No person under 21 years of age shall purchase or consume beer or
intoxicating liquor at the event and no beer or intoxicating liquor shall be
sold to any person under 21 years of age at the event; and
      (6)   No person at the event shall sell or furnish beer or intoxicating
liquor to an intoxicated person.
   (O)   The possession or consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor by a
person who is under 21 years of age and who is a student at an accredited
college or university, provided that both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person is required to taste and expectorate the beer or
intoxicating liquor for a culinary, food service, or hospitality course.
      (2)   The person is under the direct supervision of the instructor of the
culinary, food service, or hospitality course.
(R.C. § 4301.20)
§ 114.03 RESTRICTIONS APPLICABLE TO SALE OF BEER AND INTOXICATING LIQUOR FOR
CONSUMPTION ON THE PREMISES.
   (A)   The sale of beer or intoxicating liquor for consumption on the
premises is subject to the following restrictions, in addition to those imposed
by the rules and orders of the Division of Liquor Control:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter
4301, beer or intoxicating liquor may be served to a person not seated at a
table unless there is reason to believe that the beer or intoxicating liquor so
served will be consumed by a person under 21 years of age.
      (2)   Beer or intoxicating liquor may be served by a hotel in the room of
a bona fide guest, and may be sold by a hotel holding a D-5a permit, or a hotel
holding a D-3 or D-5 permit that otherwise meets all of the requirements for
holding a D-5a permit, by means of a controlled access alcohol and beverage
cabinet that shall be located only in the hotel room of a registered guest. A
hotel may sell beer or intoxicating liquor as authorized by its permit to a
registered guest by means of a controlled access alcohol and beverage cabinet
in accordance with the following requirements:
         (a)   Only a person 21 years of age or older who is a guest registered
to stay in a guestroom shall be provided a key, magnetic card, or other similar
device necessary to obtain access to the contents of a controlled access
alcohol and beverage cabinet in that guestroom.
         (b)   The hotel shall comply with R.C. § 4301.22, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, in connection with the handling, restocking,
and replenishing of the beer and intoxicating liquor in the controlled access
alcohol and beverage cabinet.
         (c)   The hotel shall replenish or restock beer and intoxicating
liquor in any controlled access alcohol and beverage cabinet only during the
hours during which the hotel may serve or sell beer and intoxicating liquor.
         (d)   The registered guest shall verify in writing that the guest has
read and understands the language that shall be posted on the controlled access
alcohol and beverage cabinet as required by division (A)(2)(e) of this section.
         (e)   A hotel authorized to sell beer and intoxicating liquor pursuant
to division (A)(2) of this section shall post on the controlled access alcohol
and beverage cabinet, in conspicuous language, the following notice:
            “The alcoholic beverages contained in this cabinet shall not be
removed from the premises.”
         (f)   The hotel shall maintain a record of each sale of beer or
intoxicating liquor made by the hotel by means of a controlled access alcohol
and beverage cabinet for any period in which the permit holder is authorized to
hold the permit pursuant to R.C. §§ 4303.26 and 4303.27 and any additional
period during which an applicant exercises its right to appeal a rejection by
the Division of Liquor Control to renew a permit pursuant to R.C. § 4303.271.
The records maintained by the hotel shall comply with both of the following:
            1.   Include the name, address, age, and signature of each hotel
guest who is provided access by the hotel to a controlled access alcohol and
beverage cabinet pursuant to division (A)(2)(a) of this section;
            2.   Be made available during business hours to authorized agents
of the Division of Liquor Control pursuant to R.C. § 4301.10(A)(6) or to
enforcement agents of the Department of Public Safety pursuant to R.C. §§
5502.13 through 5502.19.
         (g)   The hotel shall observe all other applicable rules adopted by
the Division of Liquor Control and the Liquor Control Commission.
      (3)   The seller shall not require the purchase of food with the purchase
of beer or intoxicating liquor; nor shall the seller of beer or intoxicating
liquor give away food of any kind in connection with the sale of beer or
intoxicating liquor, except as authorized by rule of the state Liquor Control
Commission.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 4301.62(B)(8), the seller
shall not permit the purchaser to remove beer or intoxicating liquor so sold
from the premises.
      (5)   A hotel authorized to sell beer and intoxicating liquor pursuant to
division (A)(2) of this section shall provide a registered guest with the
opportunity to refuse to accept a key, magnetic card, or other similar device
necessary to obtain access to the contents of a controlled access alcohol and
beverage cabinet in that guest room. If a registered guest refuses to accept
such key, magnetic card, or other similar device, the hotel shall not assess
any charges on the registered guest for use of the controlled access alcohol
and beverage cabinet in that guest room.
(R.C. § 4301.21)
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
§ 114.04 RESTRICTIONS ON SALE OF BEER AND LIQUOR.
   (A)   Restrictions on sales. Sales of beer and intoxicating liquor under all
classes of permits and from liquor stores are subject to the following
restrictions, in addition to those imposed by the rules or orders of the state
Division of Liquor Control.
      (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C.
Chapter 4301, no beer or intoxicating liquor shall be sold to any person under
21 years of age.
         (b)   No low-alcohol beverage shall be sold to any person under 18
years of age. No permit issued by the Division shall be suspended, revoked, or
cancelled because of a violation of this division (A)(1)(b).
         (c)   No intoxicating liquor shall be handled by any person under 21
years of age, except that a person 18 years of age or older employed by a
permit holder may handle or sell beer or intoxicating liquor in sealed
containers in connection with wholesale or retail sales, and any person 19
years of age or older employed by a permit holder may handle intoxicating
liquor in open containers when acting in the capacity of a server in a hotel,
restaurant, club, or night club, as defined in R.C. § 4301.01, or in the
premises of a D-7 permit holder. This section does not authorize persons under
21 years of age to sell intoxicating liquor across a bar. Any person employed
by a permit holder may handle beer or intoxicating liquor in sealed containers
in connection with manufacturing, storage, warehousing, placement, stocking,
bagging, loading, or unloading, and may handle beer or intoxicating liquor in
open containers in connection with cleaning tables or handling empty bottles or
glasses.
      (2)   No permit holder and no agent or employee of a permit holder shall
sell or furnish beer or intoxicating liquor to an intoxicated person.
      (3)   (a)   No sales of intoxicating liquor shall be made after 2:30 a.m.
on Sunday, except under either of the following circumstances:
            1.   Intoxicating liquor may be sold on Sunday under authority of a
permit that authorizes Sunday sale.
            2.   Spiritous liquor may be sold on Sunday by any person awarded
an agency contract under R.C. § 4301.17 if the sale of spiritous liquor is
authorized in the applicable precinct as the result of an election on question
(B)(1) or (B)(2) of R.C. § 4301.351 and if the agency contract authorizes the
sale of spiritous liquor on Sunday.
         (b)   This section does not prevent the municipality from adopting a
closing hour for the sale of intoxicating liquor earlier than 2:30 a.m. on
Sunday or to provide that no intoxicating liquor may be sold prior to that hour
on Sunday.
      (4)   (a)   No holder of a permit shall give away any beer or
intoxicating liquor of any kind at any time in connection with the permit
holder's business. However, with the exception of an A-1-A permit holder that
also has been issued an A-2 or A-2f permit, an A-1-A, A-1c, or D permit holder
may provide to a paying customer not more than a total of four tasting samples
of beer, wine, or spirituous liquor, as authorized by the applicable permit, in
any twenty-four-hour period. The permit holder shall provide the tasting
samples free of charge, at the permit holder’s expense, only to a person who is
21 years of age or older. The person shall consume the tasting samples on the
premises of the permit holder. A distributor is not responsible for the costs
of providing tasting samples authorized under division (A)(4) of this section.
         (b)   As used in division (A)(4) of this section:
            TASTING SAMPLE. Means one of the following, as applicable:
               a.   An amount not to exceed two ounces of beer;
               b.   An amount not to exceed two ounces of wine;
               c.   An amount not to exceed a quarter ounce of spirituous
liquor.
            D PERMIT HOLDER. Means a person that has been issued a D-1, D-2, D-
2x, D-3, D-3a, D-3 x, D-4, D-5, D-5a, D-5c, D-5d, D-5e, D-5f, D-5g, D-5h, D-5i,
D-5j, D-5k, D-5l, D-5m, D-5n, D-5o, D-6, or D-7 permit.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, no retail permit
holder shall display or permit the display on the outside of any licensed
retail premises, on any lot of ground on which the licensed premises are
situated, or on the exterior of any building of which the licensed premises are
a part, any sign, illustration, or advertisement bearing the name, brand name,
trade name, trademark, designation, or other emblem of, or indicating the
manufacturer, producer, distributor, place of manufacture, production, or
distribution of, any beer or intoxicating liquor. Signs, illustrations, or
advertisements bearing the name, brand name, trade name, trademark,
designation, or other emblem of or indicating the manufacturer, producer,
distributor, place of manufacture, production, or distribution of beer or
intoxicating liquor may be displayed and permitted to be displayed on the
interior or in the show windows of any licensed premises, if the particular
brand or type of product so advertised is actually available for sale on the
premises at the time of that display. The Liquor Control Commission shall
determine by rule the size and character of those signs, illustrations, or
advertisements.
      (6)   No retail permit holder shall possess on the licensed premises any
barrel or other container from which beer is drawn, unless there is attached to
the spigot or other dispensing apparatus the name of the manufacturer of the
product contained in the barrel or other container, provided that, if the beer
is served at a bar, the manufacturer's name or brand shall appear in full view
of the purchaser. The Commission shall regulate the size and character of the
devices provided for in this section.
      (7)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, no sale of any gift
certificate shall be permitted whereby beer or intoxicating liquor of any kind
is to be exchanged for the certificate, unless the gift certificate can be
exchanged only for food, and beer or intoxicating liquor, for on-premises
consumption and the value of the beer or intoxicating liquor does not exceed
more than 30% of the total value of the gift certificate. The sale of gift
certificates for the purchase of beer, wine, or mixed beverages shall be
permitted for the purchase of beer, wine, or mixed beverages for off-premises
consumption. Limitations on the use of a gift certificate for the purchase of
beer, wine, or mixed beverages for off-premises consumption may be expressed by
clearly stamping or typing on the face of the certificate that the certificate
may not be used for the purchase of beer, wine, or mixed beverages for on-
premises consumption.
(R.C. § 4301.22)
   (B)   Division (A)(1) not modified or affected. The provisions of R.C. §§
4301.633 through 4301.637, or substantially equivalent municipal ordinances,
shall not be deemed to modify or affect division (A)(1) of this section or R.C.
§ 4301.22(A).
(R.C. § 4301.638)
   (C)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates divisions (A)(1)(b) or (A)(3) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates divisions (A)(1)(a), (A)(1)(c) or (A)(2) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(D), (H))
Statutory reference:
   Suspension of beer and liquor sales during emergency, see R.C. § 4301.251
§ 114.05 PERMIT REQUIRED; ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED WITHOUT PERMIT.
   (A)   Permit required. 
      (1)   No person personally or by the person’s clerk, agent, or employee,
shall manufacture, manufacture for sale, offer, keep, or possess for sale,
furnish or sell, or solicit the purchase or sale of any beer or intoxicating
liquor in this state, or transport, import, or cause to be transported or
imported any beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol in or into this municipality
for delivery, use or sale, unless the person has fully complied with R.C.
Chapters 4301 and 4303 or is the holder of a permit issued by the Division of
Liquor Control and in force at the time.
      (2)   No manufacturer, supplier, wholesale distributor, broker, or
retailer of beer or intoxicating liquor, or other person shall employ, retain,
or otherwise utilize any person in this state to act as an employee, agent,
solicitor, or salesperson, or act in any other representative capacity to sell,
solicit, take orders, or receive offers to purchase or expressions of interest
to purchase beer or intoxicating liquor from any person, at any location other
than a liquor permit premises, except as specifically authorized by R.C.
Chapter 4301 or R.C. Chapter 4303 or rules adopted thereunder. No function,
event, or party shall take place at any location other than a liquor permit
premises where any person acts in any manner to sell, solicit, take orders, or
receive offers to purchase or expressions of intent to purchase beer or
intoxicating liquor to or from any person, except as specifically authorized by
R.C. Chapter 4301 or R.C. Chapter 4303 or rules adopted thereunder.
(R.C. § 4303.25)
   (B)   Activities prohibited without permit.
      (1)   No person, personally or by the person's clerk, agent, or employee,
who is not the holder of an A permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control,
in force at the time, and authorizing the manufacture of beer or intoxicating
liquor, or who is not an agent or employee of the Department authorized to
manufacture beer or intoxicating liquor, shall manufacture any beer or
intoxicating liquor for sale, or shall manufacture spirituous liquor.
      (2)   No person, personally or by the person's clerk, agent, or employee,
who is not the holder of an A, B, C, D, E, F, G, I, or S permit issued by the
Department, in force at the time, and authorizing the sale of beer,
intoxicating liquor, or alcohol, or who is not an agent or employee of the
Department or the Tax Commissioner authorized to sell beer, intoxicating
liquor, or alcohol, shall sell, keep, or possess beer, intoxicating liquor, or
alcohol for sale to any persons other than those authorized by this chapter and
R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303 to purchase any beer or intoxicating liquor, or
sell any alcohol at retail. This division does not apply to or affect the sale
or possession for sale of any low-alcohol beverage.
      (3)   No person, personally or by the person's clerk, agent, or employee,
who is the holder of a permit issued by the Department, shall sell, keep, or
possess for sale any intoxicating liquor not purchased from the Department or
from the holder of a permit issued by the Department authorizing the sale of
intoxicating liquor, unless the same has been purchased with the special
consent of the Department. The Department shall revoke the permit of any person
convicted of a violation of this division.
(R.C. § 4301.58)
   (C)   Penalty. Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
§ 114.06 ILLEGAL TRANSPORTATION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, who is not the holder of an H permit shall transport beer,
intoxicating liquor, or alcohol in this municipality. This section does not
apply to the transportation and delivery of beer, alcohol, or intoxicating
liquor purchased or to be purchased from the holder of a permit issued by the
Division of Liquor Control, in force at the time, and authorizing the sale and
delivery of the beer, alcohol, or intoxicating liquor so transported, or to the
transportation and delivery of beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol purchased
from the Department or the Tax Commissioner, or purchased by the holder of an A
or B permit outside this state, and transported within this municipality by
them in their own trucks for the purpose of sale under their permits.
(R.C. § 4301.60)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
§ 114.07 OPEN CONTAINER PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINE means a vehicle registered under R.C. § 4503.24.
      STREET, HIGHWAY, and MOTOR VEHICLE have the same meanings as in R.C. §
4511.01.
   (B)   No person shall have in the person's possession an opened container of
beer or intoxicating liquor in any of the following circumstances:
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(1)(e) of this section, in a
state liquor store;
      (2)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, on the premises
of the holder of any permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control;
      (3)   In any other public place;
      (4)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) of this section, while
operating or being a passenger in or on a motor vehicle on any street, highway,
or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking;
      (5)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) of this section, while
being in or on a stationary motor vehicle on any street, highway, or other
public or private property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking.
   (C)   (1)   A person may have in the person's possession an opened container
of any of the following:
         (a)   Beer or intoxicating liquor that has been lawfully purchased for
consumption on the premises where bought from the holder of an A-1-A, A-2, A-
2f, A-3a, D-1, D-2, D-3, D-3a, D-4, D-4a, D-5, D-5a, D-5b, D-5c, D-5d, D-5e, D-
5f, D-5g, D-5h, D-5i, D-5j, D-5k, D-5l, D-5m, D-5n, D-5o, D-7, D-8, D-9, E, F,
F-2, F-5, F-7, F-8, or F-9 permit;
         (b)   Beer, wine, or mixed beverages served for consumption on the
premises by the holder of an F-3 permit, wine served as a tasting sample by an
A-2, A-2f, S-1, or S-2 permit holder for consumption on the premises of a
farmers market for which an F-10 permit has been issued, or wine served for
consumption on the premises by the holder of an F-4 or F-6 permit;
         (c)   Beer or intoxicating liquor consumed on the premises of a
convention facility as provided in R.C. § 4303.201;
         (d)   Beer or intoxicating liquor to be consumed during tastings and
samplings approved by rule of the Liquor Control Commission;
         (e)   Spiritous liquor to be consumed for purposes of a tasting
sample, as defined in R.C. § 4301.171;
         (f)   Beer or intoxicating liquor to be consumed in an outdoor area
described in R.C. § 4303.188(B)(1).
      (2)   A person may have in the person's possession on an F liquor permit
premises an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor that was not
purchased from the holder of the F permit if the premises for which the F
permit is issued is a music festival and the holder of the F permit grants
permission for that possession on the premises during the period for which the
F permit is issued. As used in this division (C)(2), MUSIC FESTIVAL means a
series of outdoor live musical performances extending for a period of at least
three consecutive days and located on an area of land of at least 40 acres.
      (3)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on a D-2 liquor
permit premises an opened or unopened container of wine that was not purchased
from the holder of the D-2 permit if the premises for which the D-2 permit is
issued is an outdoor performing arts center, the person is attending an
orchestral performance, and the holder of the D-2 permit grants permission for
the possession and consumption of wine in certain predesignated areas of the
premises during the period for which the D-2 permit is issued.
         (b)   As used in division (C)(3)(a) of this section:
            ORCHESTRAL PERFORMANCE means a concert comprised of a group of not
fewer than 40 musicians playing various musical instruments.
            OUTDOOR PERFORMING ARTS CENTER means an outdoor performing arts
center that is located on not less than 150 acres of land and that is open for
performances from the first day of April to the last day of October of each
year.
      (4)   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened or unopened
container of beer or intoxicating liquor at an outdoor location at which the
person is attending an orchestral performance as defined in division (C)(3)(b)
of this section if the person with supervision and control over the performance
grants permission for the possession and consumption of beer or intoxicating
liquor in certain predesignated areas of that outdoor location.
      (5)   A person may have in the person’s possession on an F-9 liquor
permit premises an opened or unopened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
that was not purchased from the holder of the F-9 permit if the F-9 permit
holder grants permission for the possession and consumption of beer or
intoxicating liquor in certain predesignated areas of the premises during the
period for which the F-9 permit is issued.
      (6)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on the property
of an outdoor motorsports facility an opened or unopened container of beer or
intoxicating liquor that was not purchased from the owner of the facility if
both of the following apply:
            1.   The person is attending a racing event at the facility; and
            2.   The owner of the facility grants permission for the possession
and consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor on the property of the facility.
         (b)   As used in division (C)(6)(a) of this section:
            OUTDOOR MOTORSPORTS FACILITY. An outdoor racetrack to which all of
the following apply:
               a.   It is 2.4 miles or more in length.
               b.   It is located on 200 acres or more of land.
               c.   The primary business of the owner of the facility is the
hosting and promoting of racing events.
               d.   The holder of a D-1, D-2, or D-3 permit is located on the
property of the facility.
            RACING EVENT. A motor vehicle racing event sanctioned by one or
more motor racing sanctioning organizations.
      (7)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened
container of beer or intoxicating liquor at an outdoor location within an
outdoor refreshment area created under R.C. § 4301.82 if the opened container
of beer or intoxicating liquor was purchased from an A-1, A-1-A, A-1c, A-2, A-
2f, D class, or F class permit holder to which both of the following apply:
            1.   The permit holder’s premises is located within the outdoor
refreshment area.
            2.   The permit held by the permit holder has an outdoor
refreshment area designation.
         (b)   Division (C)(7) of this section does not authorize a person to
do either of the following:
            1.   Enter the premises of an establishment within an outdoor
refreshment area while possessing an opened container of beer or intoxicating
liquor acquired elsewhere;
            2.   Possess an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
while being in or on a motor vehicle within an outdoor refreshment area, unless
the possession is otherwise authorized under division (D) or (E) of this
section.
         (c)   As used in division (C)(7) of this section, “D class permit
holder” does not include a D-6 or D-8 permit holder.
      (8)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on the property
of a market, within a defined F-8 permit premises, an opened container of beer
or intoxicating liquor that was purchased from a D permit premises that is
located immediately adjacent to the market if both of the following apply:
            1.   The market grants permission for the possession and
consumption of beer and intoxicating liquor within the defined F-8 permit
premises;
            2.   The market is hosting an event pursuant to an F-8 permit and
the market has notified the division of liquor control about the event in
accordance with R.C. § 4303.208(A)(3).
         (b)   As used in division (C)(8) of this section, MARKET means a
market, for which an F-8 permit is held, that has been in operation since 1860.
   (D)   This section does not apply to a person who pays all or a portion of
the fee imposed for use of a chauffeured limousine pursuant to a prearranged
contract or the guest of the person, when all of the following apply:
      (1)   The person or guest is a passenger in the limousine.
      (2)   The person or guest is located in the limousine, but is not
occupying a seat in the front compartment of the limousine where the operator
of the limousine is located.
      (3)   The limousine is located on any street, highway, or other public or
private property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking.
   (E)   An opened bottle of wine that was purchased from the holder of a
permit that authorizes the sale of wine for consumption on the premises where
sold is not an opened container for the purposes of this section if both of the
following apply:
      (1)   The opened bottle of wine is securely resealed by the permit holder
or an employee of the permit holder before the bottle is removed from the
premises. The bottle shall be secured in such a manner that it is visibly
apparent if the bottle has been subsequently opened or tampered with.
      (2)   The opened bottle of wine that is resealed in accordance with
division (E)(1) of this section is stored in the trunk of a motor vehicle or,
if the motor vehicle does not have a trunk, behind the last upright seat or in
an area not normally occupied by the driver or passengers and not easily
accessible by the driver.
   (F)   (1)   Except if an ordinance or resolution is enacted or adopted under
division (F)(2) of this section, this section does not apply to a person who,
pursuant to a prearranged contract, is a passenger riding on a commercial
quadricycle when all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person is not occupying a seat in the front of the
commercial quadricycle where the operator is steering or braking.
         (b)   The commercial quadricycle is being operated on a street,
highway, or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking.
         (c)   The person has in their possession on the commercial quadricycle
an opened container of beer or wine.
         (d)   The person has in their possession on the commercial quadricycle
not more than either 36 ounces of beer or 18 ounces of wine.
      (2)   The Legislative Authority may enact an ordinance or adopt a
resolution, as applicable, that prohibits a passenger riding on a commercial
quadricycle from possessing an opened container of beer or wine.
      (3)   As used in this section, COMMERCIAL QUADRICYCLE means a vehicle
that has fully- operative pedals for propulsion entirely by human power and
that meets all of the following requirements:
         (a)   It has four wheels and is operated in a manner similar to a
bicycle.
         (b)   It has at least five seats for passengers.
         (c)   It is designed to be powered by the pedaling of the operator and
the passengers.
         (d)   It is used for commercial purposes.
         (e)   It is operated by the vehicle owner or an employee of the owner.
   (G)   (1)   This section does not apply to a person that has in the person’s
possession an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor on the premises
of a market if the beer or intoxicating liquor has been purchased from a D
liquor permit holder that is located in the market.
      (2)   As used in division (G) of this section, MARKET means an
establishment that:
         (a)   Leases space in the market to individual vendors, not less than
50% of which are retail food establishments or food service operations licensed
under R.C. Chapter 3717;
         (b)   Has an indoor sales floor area of not less than 22,000 square
feet;
         (c)   Hosts a farmer’s market on each Saturday from April through
December.
(R.C. § 4301.62)
   (H)   (1)   As used in this section, ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE has the same meaning
as in R.C. § 4303.185.
      (2)   An alcoholic beverage in a closed container being transported under
R.C. § 4303.185 to its final destination is not an opened container for the
purposes of this section if the closed container is securely sealed in such a
manner that it is visibly apparent if the closed container has been
subsequently opened or tampered with after sealing.
   (I)   This section does not apply to a person who has in the person’s
possession an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor in a public-use
airport, as described in R.C. § 4303.181(D)(2)(a)(iii), when both of the
following apply:
      (1)   Consumption of the opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
occurs in the area of the airport terminal that is restricted to persons taking
flights to and from the airport; and
      (2)   The consumption is authorized under R.C. § 4303.181(D)(2)(a).
(R.C. § 4301.62)
   (J)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4301.99(A))
§ 114.08 UNDERAGE PERSON SHALL NOT PURCHASE INTOXICATING LIQUOR OR BEER.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter 4301,
no person under the age of 21 years shall purchase beer or intoxicating liquor.
(R.C. § 4301.63)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $25 nor
more than $100. The court imposing a fine for a violation of this section may
order that the fine be paid by the performance of public work at a reasonable
hour rate established by the court. The court shall designate the time within
which the public work shall be completed.
(R.C. § 4301.99(E))
§ 114.09 PROHIBITIONS; MINORS UNDER 18 YEARS; LOW-ALCOHOL BEVERAGES.
   (A)   As used in this section, UNDERAGE PERSON means a person under 18 years
of age.
   (B)   No underage person shall purchase any low-alcohol beverage.
   (C)   No underage person shall order, pay for, share the cost of, or attempt
to purchase any low- alcohol beverage.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly furnish any false information as to the
name, age, or other identification of any underage person for the purpose of
obtaining or with the intent to obtain any low- alcohol beverage for an
underage person, by purchase or as a gift.
   (E)   No underage person shall knowingly show or give false information
concerning his or her name, age, or other identification for the purpose of
purchasing or otherwise obtaining any low-alcohol beverage in any place in this
municipality.
   (F)   No person shall sell or furnish any low-alcohol beverage to, or buy
any low-alcohol beverage for, an underage person, unless given by a physician
in the regular line of his or her practice or given for established religious
purposes, or unless the underage person is accompanied by a parent, spouse who
is not an underage person, or legal guardian.
   (G)   (1)   No person who is the owner or occupant of any public or private
place shall knowingly allow any underage person to remain in or on the place
while possessing or consuming any low-alcohol beverage, unless the low-alcohol
beverage is given to the person possessing or consuming it by that person's
parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian, and the
parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian is present when
the person possesses or consumes the low- alcohol beverage.
      (2)   An owner of a public or private place is not liable for acts or
omissions in violation of division (G)(1) that are committed by a lessee of
that place, unless the owner authorizes or acquiesces in the lessee's acts or
omissions.
   (H)   No permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control shall be suspended,
revoked, or cancelled because of a violation of either division (F) or (G).
   (I)   No underage person shall knowingly possess or consume any low-alcohol
beverage in any public or private place, unless he or she is accompanied by a
parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian, or unless the
low-alcohol beverage is given by a physician in the regular line of his or her
practice or given for established religious purposes.
   (J)   No parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian of
an underage person shall knowingly permit the underage person to violate this
section.
(R.C. § 4301.631)
   (K)   (1)   Whoever violates any provision of this section for which no
other penalty is provided is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section shall be fined not
less than $25 nor more than $100. The court imposing a fine for a violation of
division (B) of this section may order that the fine be paid by the performance
of public work at a reasonable hour rate established by the court. The court
shall designate the time within which the public work shall be completed.
(R.C. § 4301.99(E))
§ 114.10 MISREPRESENTATION TO OBTAIN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE FOR A MINOR PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter 4301,
no person shall knowingly furnish any false information as to the name, age, or
other identification of any person under 21 years of age, for the purpose of
obtaining, or with the intent to obtain, beer or intoxicating liquor for a
person under 21 years of age, by purchase, or as a gift.
(R.C. § 4301.633)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
§ 114.11 MISREPRESENTATION BY A MINOR UNDER 21 YEARS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter 4301,
no person under the age of 21 years shall knowingly show or give false
information concerning his or her name, age, or other identification for the
purpose of purchasing or otherwise obtaining beer or intoxicating liquor in any
place in this municipality where beer or intoxicating liquor is sold under a
permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control, or sold by the Division of
Liquor Control.
(R.C. § 4301.634)
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If, in committing a first violation of
division (A), the offender presented to the permit holder or his or her
employee or agent a false, fictitious, or altered identification card, a false
or fictitious driver's license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver's
license issued by any state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not less than $250 and not
more than $1,000, and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more
than six months.
      (2)   On a second violation in which, for the second time, the offender
presented to the permit holder or his or her employee or agent a false,
fictitious, or altered identification card, a false or fictitious driver's
license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver's license issued by any
state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree and shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $1,000, and
may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than six months. The
court also may impose a class seven suspension of the offender's driver's or
commercial driver's license or permit or nonresident operation privilege from
the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
      (3)   On a third or subsequent violation in which, for the third or
subsequent time, the offender presented to the permit holder or his or her
employee or agent a false, fictitious, or altered identification card, a false
or fictitious driver's license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver's
license issued by any state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not less than $500 nor more
than $1,000, and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than
six months. Except as provided in this division, the court also may impose a
class six suspension of the offender's driver's or commercial driver's license
or permit or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. §
4510.02(A)(6), and the court may order that the suspension or denial remain in
effect until the offender attains the age of 21 years. The court, in lieu of
suspending the offender's temporary instruction permit, probationary driver's
license, or driver's license, instead also may order the offender to perform a
determinate number of hours of community service, with the court determining
the actual number of hours and the nature of the community service the offender
shall perform.
(R.C. § 4301.99(F))
§ 114.12 SALE TO UNDERAGE PERSONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter 4301,
no person shall sell beer or intoxicating liquor to an underage person, shall
buy beer or intoxicating liquor for an underage person, or shall furnish it to
an underage person unless given by a physician in the regular line of the
physician's practice or given for established religious purposes or unless the
underage person is supervised by a parent, spouse who is not an underage
person, or legal guardian. In proceedings before the Liquor Control Commission,
no permit holder, or no employee or agent of a permit holder, charged with a
violation of this division shall be charged, for the same offense, with a
violation of R.C. § 4301.22(A)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (B)   No person who is the owner or occupant of any public or private place
shall knowingly allow any underage person to remain in or on the public place
while possessing or consuming beer or intoxicating liquor, unless the
intoxicating liquor or beer is given to the person possessing or consuming it
by that person's parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal
guardian and the parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal
guardian is present at the time of the person's possession or consumption of
the beer or intoxicating liquor. An owner of a public or private place is not
liable for acts or omissions in violation of this division that are committed
by a lessee of that place, unless the owner authorizes or acquiesces in the
lessee's acts or omissions.
   (C)   No person shall engage or use accommodations at a hotel, inn, cabin,
campground, or restaurant when the person knows or has reason to know either of
the following:
      (1)   That beer or intoxicating liquor will be consumed by an underage
person on the premises of the accommodations that the person engages or uses,
unless the person engaging or using the accommodations is the spouse of the
underage person and who is not an underage person, or is the parent or legal
guardian of all of the underage persons, who consume beer or intoxicating
liquor on the premises and that person is on the premises at all times when
beer or intoxicating liquor is being consumed by an underage person.
      (2)   That a drug of abuse will be consumed on the premises of the
accommodations by any person, except a person who obtained the drug of abuse
pursuant to a prescription issued by a licensed health professionals authorized
to prescribe drugs and has the drug of abuse in the original container in which
it was dispensed to the person.
   (D)   (1)   No person is required to permit the engagement of accommodations
at any hotel, inn, cabin, or campground by an underage person or for an
underage person, if the person engaging the accommodations knows or has reason
to know that the underage person is intoxicated, or that the underage person
possesses any beer or intoxicating liquor and is not supervised by a parent,
spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian who is or will be
present at all times when the beer or intoxicating liquor is being consumed by
the underage person.
      (2)   No underage person shall knowingly engage or attempt to engage
accommodations at any hotel, inn, cabin, or campground by presenting
identification that falsely indicates that the underage person is 21 years of
age or older for the purpose of violating this section.
   (E)   (1)   No underage person shall knowingly order, pay for, share the
cost of, attempt to purchase, possess, or consume any beer or intoxicating
liquor in any public or private place. No underage person shall knowingly be
under the influence of any beer or intoxicating liquor in any public place. The
prohibitions set forth in this division against an underage person knowingly
possessing, consuming, or being under the influence of any beer or intoxicating
liquor shall not apply if the underage person is supervised by a parent, spouse
who is not an underage person, or legal guardian, or the beer or intoxicating
liquor is given by a physician in the regular line of the physician's practice
or given for established religious purposes.
      (2)   (a)   If a person is charged with violating division (E)(1) of this
section in a complaint filed under R.C. § 2151.27, the court may order the
child into a diversion program specified by the court and hold the complaint in
abeyance pending successful completion of the diversion program. A child is
ineligible to enter into a diversion program under this division if the child
previously has been diverted pursuant to this division. If the child completes
the diversion program to the satisfaction of the court, the court shall dismiss
the complaint and order the child’s record in the case sealed under R.C. §§
2151.356 through 2151.358. If the child fails to satisfactorily complete the
diversion program, the court shall proceed with the complaint.
         (b)   If a person is charged in a criminal complaint with violating
division (E)(1) of this section, R.C. § 2935.36 shall apply to the offense,
except that a person is ineligible for diversion under that section if the
person previously has been diverted pursuant to divisions (E)(2)(a) or (E)(2)
(b) of this section. If the person completes the diversion program to the
satisfaction of the court, the court shall dismiss the complaint and order the
record in the case sealed under R.C. § 2953.52. If the person fails to
satisfactorily complete the diversion program, the court shall proceed with the
complaint.
   (F)   No parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian of
a minor shall knowingly permit the minor to violate this section or R.C. §
4301.63, 4301.633, or 4301.634, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (G)   The operator of any hotel, inn, cabin, or campground shall make the
provisions of this section available in writing to any person engaging or using
accommodations at the hotel, inn, cabin, or campground.
   (H)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DRUG OF ABUSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.011.
      HOTEL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3731.01.
      LICENSED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL AUTHORIZED TO PRESCRIBE DRUGS and
PRESCRIPTION. Have the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
      MINOR. A person under the age of 18 years.
      UNDERAGE PERSON. A person under the age of 21 years.
(R.C. § 4301.69)
   (I)   The provisions of R.C. §§ 4301.633 through 4301.637, or substantially
equivalent municipal ordinances, shall not be deemed to modify or affect
divisions (A) through (H) of this section or R.C. § 4301.69.
(R.C. § 4301.638)
   (J)   (1)   Except as provided in division (J)(2) of this section, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If an
offender who violates division (E)(1) of this section was under the age of 18
years at the time of the offense and the offense occurred while the offender
was the operator of or a passenger in a motor vehicle, the court, in addition
to any other penalties it imposes upon the offender, shall suspend the
offender's temporary instruction permit or probationary driver's license for a
period of six months. If the offender is 15 years and 6 months of age or older
and has not been issued a temporary instruction permit or probationary driver's
license, the offender shall not be eligible to be issued such a license or
permit for a period of six months. If the offender has not attained the age of
15 years and 6 months, the offender shall not be eligible to be issued a
temporary instruction permit until the offender attains the age of 16 years.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C)
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor, shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $1,000, and in
addition to the fine, may be imprisoned for a definite term of not more than
six months.
(R.C. § 4301.99(I))
Statutory reference:
   Changes to law if federal uniform drinking age repealed or declared
unconstitutional, see R.C. § 4301.691
§ 114.13 POSTING OF CARD.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 4301.691, every place in
this municipality where beer, intoxicating liquor, or any low-alcohol beverage
is sold for beverage purposes shall display at all times, in a prominent place
on the premises thereof, a printed card, which shall be furnished by the
Division of Liquor Control and which shall read substantially as follows:
   WARNING TO PERSONS UNDER AGE
   If you are under the age of 21
   Under the statutes of the state of Ohio, if you order, pay for, share the
cost of, or attempt to purchase, or possess or consume beer or intoxicating
liquor in any public place, or furnish false information as to name, age, or
other identification, you are subject to a fine of up to $1,000, or
imprisonment up to 6 months, or both.
   If you are under the age of 18
   Under the statutes of the state of Ohio, if you order, pay for, share the
cost of, or attempt to purchase, or posses or consume, any type of beer or wine
that contains either no alcohol or less than one-half of one per cent of
alcohol by volume in any public place, or furnish false information as to the
name, age, or other identification, you are subject to a fine of up to $250 or
to imprisonment up to 30 days, or both.
      (2)   No person shall be subject to any criminal prosecution or any
proceedings before the Department or the Liquor Control Commission for failing
to display this card. No permit issued by the Department shall be suspended,
revoked, or canceled because of the failure of the permit holder to display
this card.
   (B)   (1)   Every place in this municipality for which a D permit has been
issued under R.C. Chapter 4303 shall be issued a printed card by the Division
of Liquor Control that shall read substantially as follows:
   WARNING
   If you are carrying a firearm
   Under the statutes of Ohio, if you possess a firearm in any room in which
liquor is being dispensed in premises for which a D permit has been issued
under Chapter 4303 of the Revised Code, you may be guilty of a felony and may
be subjected to a prison term of up to one year.
      (2)   No person shall be subject to any criminal prosecution or any
proceedings before the Division of Liquor Control or the Liquor Control
Commission for failing to display this card. No permit issued by the Department
shall be suspended, revoked, or canceled because of the failure of the permit
holder to display this card.
(R.C. § 4301.637) Penalty, see §
114.99
Statutory reference:
   Carrying concealed weapon, felony, see R.C. § 2923.12
   Possessing firearm in liquor permit premises, exceptions, defenses, see R.C.
§ 2923.121
§ 114.14 GOOD FAITH ACCEPTANCES OF SPURIOUS IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   No permit holder, agent or employee of a permit holder, or any other
person may be found guilty of a violation of any section of this chapter in
which age is any element of the offense, if any court of record finds all of
the following:
      (1)   That the person buying, at the time of so doing, exhibited to the
permit holder, the agent or employee of the permit holder, or the other person
a driver's or commercial driver's license or an identification card as defined
in R.C. § 4301.61, a military identification card issued by the United States
Department of Defense, or a United States or foreign passport, that displays a
picture of the individual for whom the license, card, or passport was issued
and shows that the person buying was then at least 21 years of age if the
person was buying beer as defined in R.C. § 4301.01 or intoxicating liquor, or
that the person was then at least 18 years of age if the person was buying any
low-alcohol beverage;
      (2)   That the permit holder, the agent or employee of the permit holder,
or the other person made a bona fide effort to ascertain the true age of the
person buying by checking the identification presented at the time of the
purchase to ascertain that the description on the identification compared with
the appearance of the buyer and that the identification presented had not been
altered in any way.
      (3)   That the permit holder, the agent or employee of the permit holder,
or the other person had reason to believe that the person buying was of legal
age.
   (B)   The defense provided by division (A) of this section is in addition to
the affirmative defense provided by §
114.29.
(R.C. § 4301.639(A), (C))
§ 114.15 CONSUMPTION IN MOTOR VEHICLE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall consume any beer or intoxicating liquor in a motor
vehicle. This section does not apply to persons described in R.C. § 4301.62(D)
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 4301.64)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If an offender who violates this section was under the age of 18 years
at the time of the offense, the court, in addition to any other penalties it
imposes upon the offender, may suspend the offender’s temporary instruction
permit, probationary driver’s license or driver’s license for a period of not
less than 6 months and not more than one year. In lieu of suspending the
offender’s temporary instruction permit, probationary driver’s license, or
driver’s license, the court instead may require the offender to perform
community service for a number of hours determined by the court. If the
offender is 15 years and 6 months of age or older and has not been issued a
temporary instruction permit or probationary driver’s license, the offender
shall not be eligible to be issued such a license or permit for a period of 6
months. If the offender has not attained the age of 15 years and 6 months, the
offender shall not be eligible to be issued a temporary instruction permit
until the offender attains the age of 16 years.
(R.C. § 4301.99(B))
§ 114.16 HOURS OF SALE OR CONSUMPTION.
   (A)   This section shall apply to the retail sale of beer, wine, mixed
beverages, or spirituous liquor.
   (B)   No beer, wine, mixed beverages, or spirituous liquor shall be sold or
delivered by an A-1, A-1C, A-2, B-1, B-2, B-4, B-5, C-1, C-2, C-2X, D-1, D-2,
D-2X, D-3 when issued without a D-3A, D-3X, D-4, D-5H, D-5K, D-8, F, F-1, F-2,
F-3, F-4, F-5, F-6, F-7, F-8, F-9, G, or I permit holder:
      (1)   From Monday to Saturday between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:30
a.m.
      (2)   On Sunday between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and Sunday midnight,
unless statutorily authorized otherwise.
      (3)   Consumption of beer, wine, mixed beverages, or spirituous liquor is
also prohibited during the above hours upon the premises of the above permit
holders who are authorized by their permit to sell beer, wine, mixed beverages,
or spirituous liquor for on-premises consumption.
   (C)   No beer, wine, mixed beverages, or spirituous liquor shall be sold or
delivered by an A-1A, D-3 when issued with a D-3A, D-4A, D-5, D-5A, D-5B, D-5C,
D-5D, D-5E, D-5F, D-5G, D-5I, D-5J, D-5L, D-5M, D-5N, D-5O, or D-7 permit
holder:
      (1)   From Monday to Saturday between the hours of 2:30 a.m. and 5:30
a.m.
      (2)   On Sunday between the hours of 2:30 a.m. and Sunday midnight,
unless statutorily authorized otherwise.
      (3)   Consumption of beer, wine, mixed beverages, or spirituous liquor is
also prohibited during the above hours upon the premises of the above permit
holders who are authorized by their permit to sell beer, wine, mixed beverages,
or spirituous liquor for on-premises consumption.
   (D)   Permit holders authorized to sell beer, wine, mixed beverages, or
spirituous liquor at retail who are not specifically identified in divisions
(B) or (C) above shall be subject to the provisions of division (B), unless
statutorily authorized otherwise.
   (E)   The hours on Sunday during which sales, delivery, or consumption of
alcoholic beverages may take place are established by statute, but in no event
shall they begin prior to 5:30 a.m.
(O.A.C. § 4301:1-1-49)
   (F)   No association, corporation, local unit of an association or
corporation, or D permit holder who holds an F-2 permit shall sell beer or
intoxicating liquor beyond the hours of sale allowed by the permit. This
division imposes strict liability on the holder of such permit and on any
officer, agent or employee of such permit holder.
(R.C. § 4303.202((D)(2))
2017 S-10
   (G)   No F-8 permit holder shall sell beer or intoxicating liquor beyond the
hours of sale allowed by the permit. This division imposes strict liability on
the holder of an F-8 permit and on any officer, agent or employee of that
permit holder.
(R.C. § 4303.208(C))
   (H)   Whoever violates divisions (F) or (G) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4303.99(D)) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.17 OBSTRUCTING SEARCH OF PREMISES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall hinder or obstruct any agent or employee of the
Division of Liquor Control, any enforcement agent of the Department of Public
Safety or any officer of the law from making an inspection or search of any
place, other than a bona fide private residence, where beer or intoxicating
liquor is possessed, kept, sold, or given away.
(R.C. § 4301.66)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
   (C)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the hindrance,
obstruction, resistance, or interference alleged consisted of constitutionally
protected speech only.
§ 114.18 ILLEGAL POSSESSION OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall have possession of any spirituous liquor, in excess of
one liter, in one or more containers, which was not purchased at wholesale or
retail from the Division of Liquor Control or otherwise lawfully acquired
pursuant to this chapter, R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303, or any other
intoxicating liquor or beer, in one or more containers, which was not lawfully
acquired pursuant to those chapters.
(R.C. § 4301.67)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(B))
§ 114.19 SALE OR POSSESSION OF DILUTED LIQUOR AND REFILLED CONTAINERS
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall sell, offer for sale, or possess with the intent to
sell intoxicating liquor in any original container which has been diluted,
refilled, or partly refilled.
(R.C. § 4301.68)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
§ 114.20 KEEPING PLACE WHERE BEER OR INTOXICATING LIQUORS ARE SOLD IN VIOLATION
OF LAW.
   (A)   No person shall keep a place where beer or intoxicating liquors are
sold, furnished, or given away in violation of law. The court, on conviction
for a subsequent violation of this section, shall order the place where the
beer or intoxicating liquor is sold, furnished, or given away to be abated as a
nuisance or shall order the person so convicted to give bond payable to the
state in the sum of $1,000, with sureties to the acceptance of the court, that
the person will not sell, furnish, or give away beer or intoxicating liquor in
violation of law and will pay all fines, costs, and damages assessed against
the person for that subsequent violation of this section. The giving away of
beer or intoxicating liquors, or any other device to evade this section,
constitutes unlawful selling.
   (B)   As used in this section, BEER has the same meaning as in R.C. §
4301.01.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any premises for which
a permit has been issued under R.C. Chapter 4303 while that permit is in
effect.
(R.C. § 4399.09)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $100 nor
more than $500 on a first offense and shall be fined not less than $200 nor
more than $500 on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4399.99(B))
§ 114.21 INTOXICATING LIQUORS SHALL NOT BE SOLD IN BROTHELS.
   (A)   No person shall sell, exchange, or give away intoxicating liquor in a
brothel.
(R.C. § 4399.10)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $100 nor
more than $500 and imprisoned not less than one nor more than six months.
(R.C. § 4399.99(C))
§ 114.22 USE OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR IN A PUBLIC DANCE HALL PROHIBITED;
EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(2) of this section,
no person who is the proprietor of, or who conducts, manages, or is in charge
of any public dance hall shall allow the use of any intoxicating liquor or the
presence of intoxicated persons in the public dance hall or on the premises on
which it is located.
      (2)   The prohibition against the use of any intoxicating liquor
contained in division (A)(1) of this section does not apply to establishments
that are holders of a D-1, D-2, D-3, D-4, or D-5 permit whose principal
business consists of conducting a hotel, a restaurant, a club, or a nightclub,
all as defined in R.C. § 4301.01.
(R.C. § 4399.99(D))
§ 114.23 POISONOUSLY ADULTERATED LIQUORS.
   (A)   No person, for the purpose of sale, shall adulterate spirituous
liquor, alcoholic liquor, or beer used or intended for drink or medicinal or
mechanical purposes, with cocculus indicus, vitriol, opium, alum, capsicum,
copperas, laurel water, logwood, brazilwood, cochineal, sugar of lead, aloes,
glucose, tannic acid, or any other substance that is poisonous or injurious to
health, or with a substance not a necessary ingredient in the manufacture of
the spiritous liquor, alcoholic liquor, or beer, or sell, offer, or keep for
sale spiritous liquor, alcoholic liquor, or beer that is so adulterated.
   (B)   In addition to the penalties provided in division (C) of this section,
a person convicted of violating this section shall pay all necessary costs and
expenses incurred in inspecting and analyzing spiritous liquor, alcoholic
liquor, or beer that is so adulterated, sold, kept, or offered for sale.
(R.C. § 4399.15)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $20 nor
more than $100, imprisoned not less than 20 nor more than 60 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4399.99(E))
§ 114.24 TAVERN KEEPER PERMITTING RIOTING OR DRUNKENNESS.
   (A)   No tavern keeper shall permit rioting, intoxication, or drunkenness in
or on his or her premises.
(R.C. § 4399.16)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $5 nor more
than $100.
(R.C. § 4399.99(A))
§ 114.25 NOTICE OF ACTION TO PROHIBIT LIQUOR BUSINESS.
   Any party bringing an action to prohibit the operation of a business under a
liquor permit issued pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4303 shall, upon filing the
complaint in the action, notify the Division of Liquor Control of the filing of
the complaint.
(R.C. § 4303.40)
§ 114.26 PROCEDURE WHEN INJUNCTION VIOLATED.
   (A)   Any person subject to an injunction, temporary or permanent, granted
pursuant to R.C. § 3767.05(D) or (E) involving a condition described in R.C. §
3767.01(C)(3), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, shall obey
the injunction. If the person violates the injunction, the court, or in
vacation a judge thereof, may summarily try and punish the violator. The
proceedings for punishment for contempt shall be commenced by filing with the
Clerk of the Court from which the injunction issued, information under oath
setting out the alleged facts constituting the violation, whereupon the court
shall cause a warrant to issue under which the defendant shall be arrested. The
trial may be had upon affidavits, or either party may demand the production and
oral examination of the witnesses.
(R.C. § 4301.74)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
§ 114.27 LIQUOR TRANSACTION SCANS.
   (A)   As used in this section and §
114.29:
      CARD HOLDER means any person who presents a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card to a permit holder, or an agent or
employee of a permit holder, for either of the purposes listed in under
divisions (1) or (2) of the definition for “transaction scan” in this section.
      IDENTIFICATION CARD means an identification card issued under R.C. §§
4507.50 through 4507.52 or an equivalent identification card issued by another
state.
      PERMIT HOLDER means the holder of a permit issued under R.C. Chapter
4303.
      TRANSACTION SCAN means the process by which a permit holder or an agent
or employee of a permit holder checks, by means of a transaction scan device,
the validity of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification
card that is presented as a condition for doing either of the following:
         (a)   Purchasing any beer, intoxicating liquor, or low-alcohol
beverage;
         (b)   Gaining admission to a premises that has been issued a liquor
permit authorizing the sale of beer or intoxicating liquor for consumption on
the premises where sold, and where admission is restricted to persons 21 years
of age or older.
      TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE means any commercial device or combination of
devices used at a point of sale that is capable of deciphering in an
electronically readable format the information encoded on the magnetic strip or
bar code of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification
card.
   (B)   (1)   A permit holder or an agent or employee of a permit holder may
perform a transaction scan by means of a transaction scan device to check the
validity of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card
presented by a card holder for either of the purposes listed in divisions (1)
or (2) of the definition for “transaction scan” in this section.
      (2)   If the information deciphered by the transaction scan performed
under division (B)(1) of this section fails to match the information printed on
the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by
the card holder, or if the transaction scan indicates that the information so
printed is false or fraudulent, neither the permit holder nor any agent or
employee of the permit holder shall sell any beer, intoxicating liquor, or low-
alcohol beverage to the card holder.
      (3)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not preclude a permit holder
or an agent or employee of a permit holder from using a transaction scan device
to check the validity of a document other than a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or identification card, if the document includes a bar code or
magnetic strip that may be scanned by the device, as a condition of a sale
beer, intoxicating liquor, or a low-alcohol beverage or of granting admission
to a premises described in the definition for “transaction scan” in this
section.
   (C)   The Registrar of Motor Vehicles, with the approval of the Liquor
Control Commission, shall adopt, and may amend or rescind, rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 that do both of the following:
      (1)   Govern the recording and maintenance of information described in
R.C. § 4301.61(D)(1)(a) and (D)(1)(b), R.C. § 2925.57(D)(1)(a) and (D)(1)(b)
and R.C. § 2927.021(D)(1)(a) and (D)(1)(b);
      (2)   Ensure quality control in the use of transaction scan devices under
R.C. §§ 2925.57, 2925.58, 2927.021, 2927.022, 4301.61, and 4301.611.
   (D)   (1)   No permit holder or agent or employee of a permit holder shall
electronically or mechanically record or maintain any information derived from
a transaction scan, except for the following:
         (a)   The name and date of birth of the person listed on the driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the card
holder;
         (b)   The expiration date and identification number of the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the card
holder.
      (2)   No permit holder or agent or employee of a permit holder shall use
the information that is derived from a transaction scan or that is permitted to
be recorded and maintained under division (D)(1) of this section, except for
purposes of R.C. § 4301.611, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (3)   No permit holder or agent or employee of a permit holder shall use
a transaction scan device for a purpose other than a purpose listed in
divisions (1) or (2) of the definition for “transaction scan” in this section.
      (4)   No permit holder or agent or employee of a permit holder shall sell
or otherwise disseminate the information derived from a transaction scan to any
third party, including but not limited to selling or otherwise disseminating
that information for any marketing, advertising, or promotional activities, but
a seller or agent or employee of a seller may release that information pursuant
to a court order or as specifically authorized by R.C. § 4301.611, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or another section of this code
or the Ohio Revised Code.
   (E)   Nothing in this section or R.C. § 4301.611, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, relieves a permit holder or an agent or
employee of a permit holder of any responsibility to comply with any other
applicable local, state or federal laws or rules governing the sale of beer,
intoxicating liquor, or low-alcohol beverages.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) or (D) of this section is guilty of
an illegal liquor transaction scan, and the court may impose upon the offender
a civil penalty of up to $1,000 for each violation. The Clerk of the Court
shall pay each collected civil penalty to the County Treasurer for deposit into
the County Treasury.
(R.C. § 4301.61)
§ 114.28 AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES.
   (A)   A permit holder or an agent or employee of a permit holder may not be
found guilty of a charge of a violation of this chapter or any rule of the
Liquor Control Commission in which the age of the purchaser of any beer,
intoxicating liquor, or low-alcohol beverage is an element of the alleged
violation, if the permit holder, agent, or employee raises and proves as an
affirmative defense that all of the following occurred:
      (1)   A card holder attempting to purchase any beer, intoxicating liquor,
or low-alcohol beverage presented a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
an identification card.
      (2)   A transaction scan of the driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or identification card that the card holder presented indicated that the
license or card was valid.
      (3)   The beer, intoxicating liquor, or low-alcohol beverage was sold to
the card holder in reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and
the completed transaction scan.
   (B)   In determining whether a permit holder or an agent or employee of a
permit holder has proven the affirmative defense provided by division (A) of
this section, the Liquor Control Commission or the trier of fact in a court of
record shall consider any written policy that the permit holder has adopted and
implemented and that is intended to prevent violations of R.C. §§ 4301.22(A)(1)
or (A)(2), 4301.63 through 4301.636, 4301.69, and 4301.691, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinances. For purposes of division (A)(3)
of this section, the Commission or trier of fact shall consider that reasonable
reliance upon the identification presented and the completed transaction scan
may require a permit holder or an agent or employee of a permit holder to
exercise reasonable diligence to determine, and that the use of a transaction
scan device does not excuse a permit holder or an agent or employee of a permit
holder from exercising reasonable diligence to determine, the following:
      (1)   Whether a person to whom the permit holder or agent or employee of
a permit holder sells any beer or intoxicating liquor is 21 years of age or
older or sells low-alcohol beverage is 18 years of age or older;
      (2)   Whether the description and picture appearing on the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a card holder
is that of the card holder.
   (C)   The affirmative defense provided by division (A) of this section is in
addition to the defense provided by R.C. § 4301.639, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   In any hearing before the Liquor Control Commission and in any
criminal action in which the affirmative defense provided by division (A) of
this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a deputy registrar
who issued an identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50 through 4507.52 shall
be permitted to submit certified copies of the records of that issuance in lieu
of the testimony of the personnel of or contractors with the Bureau of Motor
Vehicles in the hearing or action.
(R.C. § 4301.611)
§ 114.29 ALCOHOL VAPORIZING DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section, ALCOHOL VAPORIZING DEVICE means a machine or
other device that mixes beer or intoxicating liquor with pure oxygen or any
other gas to produce a vaporized product for the purpose of consumption by
inhalation.
   (B)   No person shall sell or offer for sale an alcohol vaporizing device.
   (C)   No person shall purchase or use an alcohol vaporizing device.
(R.C. § 4301.65)
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
misdemeanor of the third degree. For a second or subsequent violation occurring
within a period of five consecutive years after the first violation, a person
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(J))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4301.99(A))
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other penalty
has been provided is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. §§ 4301.70, 4301.99(A))
Statutory reference:
   Liquor Director to be notified of court decision regarding permit holder,
employee or agent, see R.C. § 4301.991
CHAPTER 115: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
   
115.01   Regulations of rates
§ 115.01 REGULATION OF RATES.
   (A)   The village, as a franchising authority, has the legal authority to
administer and shall enforce against any non-municipally owned cable television
system operator, as permitted, therein, the provisions of Part 76, subpart N of
the Rules and Regulations of the FCC, concerning Cable Rate Regulation, 47 CFR
SS76.900 et seq., as they currently read and hereafter may be amended, which
are herewith incorporated by reference.
   (B)   Any rate regulation proceedings conducted under division (A) above
shall provide a reasonable opportunity for consideration of the views of any
interested party, including but not limited to, subscribers and residents of
the village. In addition to all other provisions required by the laws of the
state and the village for such proceedings, and in order to provide for such
opportunity for consideration of the views of any interested party, the village
shall take the following actions:
      (1)   The village shall publish in a local newspaper, and mail by
certified mail, to Time Warner, a public notice of the intent to conduct a
public proceeding on basic service tier rates and/or charges for equipment to
receive such basic service tier, as defined by the FCC.
      (2)   The public notice shall state, among other things, that cable
television rates are subject to municipal review and explain the nature of the
rate review in question; that any interested party has the right to participate
in the proceedings; that public views may be submitted and the deadline for
submitting any such views; that a decision concerning the reasonableness of the
cable television rates or equipment rates in question will be governed by the
rules and regulations of the FCC; and that the decision of the village is
subject to review by the FCC.
   (C)   The village shall conduct a public proceeding to determine whether the
rates or proposed rate increase or decrease are reasonable and shall be vested
with all powers of a presiding officer to conduct such public proceeding.
      (1)   The nature of such proceeding will be determined by the village and
may include public hearings, opportunities for the submission of written or
oral comment, informal meetings or as the village otherwise determines
appropriate under the circumstances.
      (2)   The village will maintain a record of all written submissions. At
the discretion of the village, in appropriate cases, a transcript of any
statement made at a public proceeding will be maintained; provided, however,
that Time Warner may request, at he time it submits any proposed rates or
changes in rates, that the village direct a transcript of such proceeding,
provided further that upon such request, Time Warner shall pay all costs of
such transcript, including copies for the village, and shall provide two copies
of such transcript to the village as soon as reasonably possible.
      (3)   If the village cannot determine the reasonableness of a proposed
rate increase within the time period permitted by the FCC Rules and
Regulations, it may toll the effective date of the proposed rates for an
additional period of time as permitted by the FCC Rules and Regulations, and
issue any other necessary or appropriate order and give public notice
accordingly.
   (D)   In the course of the rate regulations proceeding, the village may
request additional information from Time Warner or any other party that is
reasonably necessary to determine the reasonableness of the basic service tier
rates and equipment charges.
      (1)   Any such additional information submitted to the village by Time
Warner shall be verified by the authorized representative of the cable
television system supervising the preparation of the response on behalf of the
entity, and submitted by way of affidavit or under penalty of perjury, stating
that the response is true and accurate to the best of that person's knowledge,
information and belief formed after reasonable inquiry.
      (2)   The village may request proprietary information, provided that the
village shall consider a timely request from Time Warner that said proprietary
information shall not be made available for public information, consistent with
the procedures set forth in Section 0.459 of the FCC Rules and Regulations.
Furthermore, said proprietary information may be used only for the purpose of
determining the reasonableness of the rates and charges or the appropriate rate
level based on a benchmark rate or a cost-of-service showing submitted by the
cable operator.
   (E)   Upon termination of the rate regulations proceeding, the village shall
adopt and release a written decision as to whether the rates or proposed rate
increase are reasonable or unreasonable, and if unreasonable, its remedy,
including prospective rate reduction, rate prescription and refunds.
   (F)   The village may not impose any fines, penalties, forfeitures or other
sanctions, other than permitted by the FCC Rules and Regulations, for charging
an unreasonable rate or proposing an unreasonable rate increase. However, the
village may impose fines or monetary forfeitures on Time Warner if it does not
comply with a rate decision or refund order of the village.
   (G)   Consistent with FCC Rules and Regulations, the village's decision may
be reviewed only by the FCC.
(Ord. 15-1994, passed 3-15-94)
CHAPTER 116: SKILL AMUSEMENT GAMES
Section
   
116.01   Purpose
   
116.02   Definitions
   
116.03   Operation; license required
   
116.04   Application information
   
116.05   Corporations, limited liability companies, trusts, and partnerships
   
116.06   Affidavit required
   
116.07   License issuance; effective period; fee
   
116.08   License administration
   
116.09   Submission of source code for approval for all non internet-based
amusement devices
   
116.10   License validity and display
   
116.11   Operation of arcade
   
116.12   License revocation
   
116.13   Revocation process
   
116.14   Transfer of license
   
116.15   Appeal
   
116.16   Inspection
   
116.17   Nuisance
   
116.18   Effect of partial invalidity
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish reasonable and uniform
regulations to minimize and control the negative effects of amusement arcades
within the village in order to promote the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the village. It is not the purpose or intent of this chapter to
restrict or deny access to recreational and skilled-based amusement machines.
The state currently allows certain games of skill while games of chance are
deemed illegal.
(Ord. 27, passed 6-7-07)
§ 116.02 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, except where the context clearly indicates a
different meaning:
   AMUSEMENT ARCADE.  means any place of business where two or more amusement
devices are located for the use or entertainment of persons patronizing the
place of business.
   AMUSEMENT DEVICE. Any machine, device, or instrument which either may be
activated for play by a third party, person or device, or upon the insertion of
paper money, a coin, token, slug, or card, operates or may be operated as a
game, contest, or test of skill, or other amusement of any kind. AMUSEMENT
DEVICES shall also be defined as machines utilized in the operation of internet
cafes or in businesses that devote floor space to internet-based sweepstakes
games. AMUSEMENT DEVICE does not include vending machines.
   GAME MACHINE. Any amusement device.
   GOOD MORAL CHARACTER. Not having been convicted of a crime involving moral
turpitude within five years next preceding the date of the application.
   MALFUNCTION.  Failure to operate in accordance with design.
   MORAL TURPITUDE. A conviction for a theft offense, fraud, falsification,
drug offense, sex offense, an offense involving gambling, or a felony.
   OPERATOR.  Any individual, corporation, or other entity conducting the
business of an amusement arcade.
   OWNER. Any individual, corporation, or other entity owning title to any
amusement device or the real property at which an amusement arcade is operated.
   PLAYING AREA.  That portion of the premises where the primary use is for
customer play on amusement devices.
   SKILL-BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINE. A skill-based amusement device, such as a
mechanical, electronic, video, or digital device, or machine, whether or not
the skill-based amusement machine requires payment for use through a coin or
bill validator or other payment of consideration or value to participate in the
machine's offering or to activate the machine, provided that all of the
following apply:
      (1)   The machine involves a task, game, play, contest, competition, or
tournament in which the player actively participates in the task, game, play,
contest, competition, or tournament.
      (2)   The outcome of an individual's play and participation is not
determined largely or wholly by chance. For purposes of this chapter, “largely
or wholly” means at least by 51%.
      (3)   The outcome of play during a game is not controlled by a person not
actively participating in the game.
      (4)   The machine only charges one price to play a task, game, play,
contest, competition, or tournament. All of the following apply to any machine
that is operated as described in this division:
         (a)   As used in this section, “task,” “game,” and “play” mean one
event from the initial activation of the machine until the results of play are
determined without payment of additional
consideration. An individual utilizing a machine that involves a single task,
game, play, contest, competition, or tournament may be awarded prizes based on
the results of play, the prizes or rewards shall be established prior to the
individual placing a wager, and the individual shall be aware of what prize or
reward will occur prior to the start of play.
         (b)   Advance play for a single task, game, play, contest,
competition, or tournament participation may be purchased. The cost of the
contest, competition, or tournament participation may be greater than a single
non-contest, competition, or tournament play.
         (c)   To the extent that the machine is used in a contest,
competition, or tournament, that contest, competition, or tournament has a
defined starting and ending date and is open to participants in competition for
scoring and ranking results toward the awarding of prizes without payment of
additional consideration.
         (d)   No machine shall have a guessing game at the end of a
successfully completed task, game, play, contest, competition, or tournament.
(Ord. 27, passed 6-7-07; Am. Ord. 2011-50, passed 10-5-11)
§ 116.03 OPERATION; LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No individual, corporation or other entity shall be an operator of an
amusement arcade at any place of business unless such operator holds a valid
amusement arcade license for the place of business where such amusement arcade
is operated.
   (B)   No individual, corporation or other entity shall permit or cause to be
permitted any amusement machine, game machine, or amusement device to be
operated, placed into operation, moved onto the area of play, or played,
without a current and valid license for that machine displayed thereon.
   (C)   No individual, corporation, or other entity shall play any amusement
device unless it is validly licensed by the village.
(Ord. 27, passed 6-7-07)
§ 116.04 APPLICATION INFORMATION.
   The original and renewal application for an amusement arcade license and the
license for each skill- based amusement machine, game machine, or amusement
device shall be upon a form prescribed by the Director of Public Safety and
shall set forth therein information such as the name and address of the
operator, the address of the place of business which is to be the licensed
amusement arcade, the year for which the license is sought, the number of
skill-based game machines or amusement devices located at such place of
business, the name and address of the owner of each machine, a detailed
explanation of the machine operation, applicable software license
authorization, player skills, and training required qualifying each machine as
a game of skill, and such other information as the Director of Public Safety
reasonably requires. The application shall be signed by the operator in whose
name the Village licenses are to be issued as well as the owner of the real
property.
(Ord. 27, passed 6-7-07)
§ 116.05 CORPORATIONS, LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANIES, TRUSTS, AND PARTNERSHIPS.
   (A)   If the operator filing the application for a license under this
chapter is a corporation, the application shall list the names and addresses of
all officers and directors and any individual, corporation or other entity
owning 25% or more of the issued and outstanding shares of every class of stock
of such corporation.
   (B)   If the operator filing the application for a license under this
chapter is a limited liability company, the application shall list the names
and addresses of all members of the limited liability company.
   (C)   If the operator filing the application for a license is a partnership,
the application shall list the names and addresses of all partners.
   (D)   If the operator filing the application for a license is a trust, the
application shall list the names and addresses of all trustees and/or co-
trustees.
   (E)   The listing required of any corporation, trust or partnership shall be
repeated and further repeated for any corporation, partnership or other entity
who or which appears as a shareholder, trustee, co-trustee, or partner on the
application.
(Ord. 27, passed 6-7-07)
§ 116.06 AFFIDAVIT REQUIRED.
   The application for a license under this chapter shall be submitted on forms
provided by the Director of Public Safety and be accompanied by an affidavit
attesting that the operator and all employees and agents of the operation have
not been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude and to the truth of the
matters set forth in such application. No person shall swear falsely in any
affidavit required to be filed under this section.
(Ord. 27, passed 6-7-07)
§ 116.07 LICENSE ISSUANCE; EFFECTIVE PERIOD; FEE.
   The Director of Public Safety is hereby authorized to issue amusement arcade
licenses and amusement and/or game machine licenses, in such form as he or she
determines to be appropriate, for a period of up to one year, upon satisfaction
of all of the following conditions:
   (A)   The operator of the amusement arcade has properly filed the
application required by this chapter. The owner of the game machines and the
real property owner shall sign the application;
   (B)   A fee of $5,000 per arcade location per year has been paid;
   (C)   A fee of $100 per machine per month has been paid in conformity with
this section;
   (D)   The operator or any employee of the operator has not been convicted of
a crime of moral turpitude within the past five years;
   (E)   The Director of Public Safety has determined that no other reasonable
cause exists to deny the issuance of such license;
   (F)   Compliance with §
116.09;
   (G)   License fees are non-refundable except upon approval by this Council.
   (H)   The fees provided for under divisions (B) and (C) of this section may
be paid annually in lump sum or on a monthly basis with one-twelfth of the
annual fee under division (B) of this section being due each month.
(Ord. 27, passed 6-7-07; Am. Ord. 84, passed 10-1-08; Am. Ord. 2014- 13, passed
4-2-14; Am. Ord. 2021-13, passed 2-3-21)
§ 116.08 LICENSE ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Director of Public Safety or designee to
administer the licensing regulations of this chapter.
   (B)   The Director of Public Safety or designee is hereby empowered to adopt
and enforce such rules and regulations relating to any matter or thing
pertaining to the issuance, administration, and enforcement of this chapter.
   (C)   The burden shall rest on the owner, applicant, operator, and/or agent
of the operator, owner, or applicant to timely produce the complete, accurate,
and true records, documents, programs source codes, or other data or objects
necessary to substantiate the licensing requirements of this chapter. Absent
such substantiation, the decision of the Director of Public Safety shall be
final subject to the appeal process of §
116.15.
   (D)   A license shall be issued within 45 days of receipt of complete
application and compliance with this chapter.
   (E)   No arcade license shall be issued until all individual amusement
devices are licensed.
(Ord. 27, passed 6-7-07)
§ 116.09 SUBMISSION OF SOURCE CODE FOR APPROVAL FOR ALL NON INTERNET- BASED
AMUSEMENT DEVICES.
   (A)   Each applicant, within 45 days of submitting an application for an
amusement arcade license, shall submit to the Director of Public Safety:
      (1)   A written report prepared by an independent laboratory satisfactory
to the Director of Public Safety stating that the specific amusement device,
including but not limited to the source code, has been tested and examined
under the requirements of the Ohio Revised Code and this chapter and the
specific amusement device is largely or wholly a game of skill.
      (2)   A report must be prepared for each amusement device to be licensed.
      (3)   An exact and sealed copy of the source code for each device shall
accompany the report. Such sealed code shall be deemed proprietary and shall be
held by the Director of Public Safety or his designee until the license is
expired, revoked, or there are reasonable grounds to believe a violation of
this chapter has occurred. If reasonable grounds exist, the sealed source code
will be provided to law enforcement for investigation. Otherwise, the source
code will be returned to the licensee.
   (B)   The Director of Public Safety shall provide the names of at least two
laboratories deemed satisfactory.
(Ord. 27, passed 6-7-07; Am. Ord. 2011-50, passed 10-5-11)
§ 116.10 LICENSE VALIDITY AND DISPLAY.
   Each license under this chapter shall be valid for only so long as the
amusement arcade is operated by the operator listed on such license, at the
place of business listed thereon. Each skill-based amusement machine and/or
amusement device shall be valid for operation or use only so long as the game
machine and/or amusement device has displayed on it a current license, or until
the license is revoked by the village or until such machines are determined to
be games of chance or otherwise deemed illegal by the state or a court of
competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 27, passed 6-7-07)
§ 116.11 OPERATION OF ARCADE.
   (A)   No person under the age of 18 years shall be permitted on the
premises.
   (B)   No doors shall be locked preventing ingress or egress by members of
the public while patrons are on the premises.
   (C)   The operator shall adopt and enforce a no loitering policy on the
premises.
   (D)   The premises of every amusement arcade shall be equipped with exterior
lighting of sufficient intensity to illuminate every means of ingress and
egress and adjacent parking areas.
   (E)   Each arcade shall be maintained so that it is handicap accessible
throughout.
   (F)   Each arcade shall be smoke free.
   (G)   Each arcade shall be operated with a glass storefront allowing full
visibility at the sidewalk or right-of-way from the front through the playing
area to the rear of the facility, exclusive of restrooms. No machines shall be
placed in restrooms.
   (H)   Windows shall be clear and free of tint. No obstructions shall prevent
observing at least 50% of the arcade games from outside the front door.
   (I)   The operator shall maintain a record of each game machine taken out of
play for any reason, including but not limited to, machine malfunction. The
record shall include, but not be limited to the following: name of operator
taking the device out of play; name and address of player who last played; the
amount reflected as won but not paid or lost by the arcade; a description of
the malfunction; a description of how the game machine was designed to operate;
time and date of removal from play; make, model, and serial number of the game
machine. Said record shall be maintained on the premises for at least two years
from date of removal. Further, the record shall be available for inspection to
the Director of Public Safety, his agents, and designees during regular
business hours.
   (J)   No arcade shall operate during the hours of 1:00 a.m. to 7:00 a.m.,
and further, no license shall be granted to an arcade that will conduct
business at a location that is within 500 feet from the boundaries of a parcel
of real estate having situated on it a church, school, public library, public
playground, or any establishment that has been issued a liquor permit by the
State of Ohio. This section shall not apply to any arcade in existence at the
time of the passage of this section, and shall not apply to any duly licensed
arcade in existence at the time a church, school, public library, public
playground, public park, or any establishment that has been issued a liquor
permit by the State of Ohio moves within 500 feet of said arcade. However, any
change in ownership of the entertainment device or arcade or change in location
will remove said arcade from this exception.
   (K)   Each operator shall maintain a record of the full name, address,
telephone number, date, tax identification number, and gross value amount for
each player receiving consideration or anything of value exceeding $200. This
record shall be filed with the Clerk-Treasurer for the Village of Mogadore at
least quarterly. Further, such record shall be available for inspection to the
Director of Public Safety or designee during regular business hours for a
period of two years.
   (L)   Each operator shall clearly post in a conspicuous place all
circumstances in which a player may not “cash out”, be reimbursed, or receive a
cash payment for the value of winnings, credits, rewards, or prepayments.
   (M)   Each operator, employee, and agent thereof shall wear a full name
identification nameplate during working hours.
   (N)   All on premises food service shall comply with state and local health
regulations.
   (O)   Each operator shall conspicuously display by posting with each skill-
based amusement machine the established prize or reward for each play. This
information shall be posted so that the player can observe it prior to and
during play.
   (P)   Each operator shall make available and have on display forms as
prescribed by the Director of Public Safety for the recovery of losses pursuant
to Ohio Rev. Code §3763.
   (Q)   No weapons, firearms, or dangerous ordnances are permitted on the
premises.
(Ord. 27, passed 6-7-07; Am. Ord. 2010-6, passed 2-17-10)
§ 116.12 LICENSE REVOCATION.
   It shall be cause for revocation of any license required under this chapter,
by the issuing authority, or for non-renewal of such license, for an operator
or operator's officers, directors, agents, or employees, trustee, 25% of the
shareholders of an operator, or any other person to:
   (A)   Operate an amusement arcade without a valid license;
   (B)   Operate or permit to be operated an amusement device or game machine
without a valid license for that machine or device;
   (C)   Fail to display any license required by this chapter;
   (D)   Provide any false or misleading information in the material submitted
during the application process;
   (E)   Permit any violation of:
      (1)   An ordinance or regulation of the village;
      (2)   Regulation of the county, including but not limited to rules of the
Summit County Department of Health; or
      (3)   Statute of the state, any for which a criminal penalty may be
invoked, to take place at any amusement arcade operated by such operator; or
      (4)   Knowingly allow gambling on the premises;
      (5)   Transfer or alter any license issued under this chapter;
      (6)   Failure to comply with any provision of this chapter;
      (7)   Be convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude.
(Ord. 27, passed 6-7-07)
§ 116.13 REVOCATION PROCESS.
   (A)   The Director of Public Safety shall notify the licensee in writing, at
the address of the amusement arcade, of the reason for revocation. Service
shall be made by regular first class mail with proof of service or personally.
   (B)   When the village revokes a license, the licensee shall not be issued
another license for one year from the date the revocation became effective. If
the village finds, subsequent to revocation, that the basis for the revocation
has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license if at
least 90 days have elapsed since the date the revocation became effective.
(Ord. 27, passed 6-7-07)
§ 116.14 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   (A)   An amusement arcade license is not transferable from one licensee to
another or from one location to another. Any purported transfer of an amusement
arcade license shall automatically and immediately revoke that license.
   (B)   A skill-based amusement machine or amusement device license is not
transferable from one machine or device to another or to a machine or device
moved to a different location. Any purported such transfer of a license shall
automatically and immediately revoke that license.
(Ord. 27, passed 6-7-07)
§ 116.15 APPEAL.
   (A)   Any licensee may appeal the decision of the Director of Public Safety
for the denial of the issuance of a license, the denial of a renewal of a
license or the revocation of a license. An appeal must be filed within ten days
of notice of non-issuance, non-renewal or revocation, in writing, to the
Mogadore Director of Public Safety, 135 S. Cleveland Avenue, Mogadore, Ohio
44260 stating the reason for the appeal.
   (B)   The Licensing Appeal Board shall consist of three residents of the
village, appointed by the Mayor, for terms of two years. Appeals shall be heard
within five days of filing. Such Board shall determine whether the denial or
revocation of any license under this chapter was arbitrary, capricious, or
unreasonable.
   (C)   Any decision of the Board shall be a final, appealable order, and the
applicant or licensee may seek prompt judicial review of such administrative
action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 27, passed 6-7-07; Am. Ord. 98, passed 12-3-08)
§ 116.16 INSPECTION.
   (A)   The Police Department shall, from time to time and at least four times
a year, inspect that portion of the arcade business open to the public licensed
hereunder in order to assess compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Director of Public Safety shall, from time to time, request the
Summit County Health Department to inspect that portion of each arcade business
open to the public and licensed hereunder, in order to assess compliance with
the provisions of this chapter and relevant Health Department regulations.
   (C)   That the Fire Department shall, from time to time, and at least four
times a year, inspect that portion of the arcade business open to the public
and licensed hereunder in order to assess compliance with all applicable fire
code regulations.
(Ord. 27, passed 6-7-07)
§ 116.17 NUISANCE.
   A violation of this chapter shall constitute a nuisance and is subject to
civil proceedings, including an injunction, in addition to prosecution for
criminal violations of the state and the Codified Ordinances of the village.
(Ord. 27, passed 6-7-07)
§ 116.18 EFFECT OF PARTIAL INVALIDITY.
   If any section, subsection, or clause of this chapter shall be deemed to be
unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, the validity and enforcement of the
remaining sections, subsections, and clauses shall not be affected.
(Ord. 27, passed 6-7-07)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter, for which no penalty is otherwise provided, is guilty of a third
degree misdemeanor and shall be subject to the penalties set forth in §
130.99. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on
which a violation or noncompliance occurs.
(Ord. 27, passed 6-7-07)
CHAPTER 117: SMALL CELL FACILITIES AND WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURES WITHIN THE
RIGHT-OF-WAY
Section
   
117.01   Purpose and intent
   
117.02   Applicability
   
117.03   Definitions
   
117.04   Application required
   
117.05   Application review timeframes and process
   
117.06   General small cell requirements
   
117.07   Small cell design guidelines
   
117.08   Standard conditions of permit approval
   
117.09   Safety requirements
   
117.10   Recovery of costs
   
117.11   Severability
 
   
117.99   Penalty
§ 117.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to establish general procedures and
standards, consistent with all applicable federal and state laws, for the
siting, construction, installation, collocation, modification, operation, and
removal of small cell wireless communications facilities in the right-of-way.
   (B)   The intent of this chapter is to:
      (1)   Establish basic criteria for applications to locate small cell
facilities and wireless support structures in the right-of-way and authorize
the Village Engineer to develop, publish, and from time to time amend
applications and other associated materials to provide clear guidance to
applicants;
      (2)   Ensure that small cell facilities and wireless support structures
are carefully designed, constructed, modified, maintained, and removed when no
longer in use in conformance with all applicable health and safety regulations;
      (3)   Preserve the character of the village by minimizing the potentially
adverse visual impact of small cell facilities and wireless support structures
through careful design, siting, landscaping and camouflaging techniques to
blend these facilities into their environment to the maximum extent
practicable;
      (4)   Enhance the ability of wireless communications carriers to deploy
small cell facilities and wireless support structures in the village quickly,
effectively, and efficiently so that residents, businesses, and visitors
benefit from ubiquitous and robust wireless service availability;
      (5)   Establish an application process and structure for payment of fees
and charges to be uniformly applied to all applicants and owners of small cell
facilities aud wireless support structures for such facilities;
      (6)   Comply with, and not conflict with or preempt, all applicable state
and federal laws, including without limitation Section 101 (a) and Section 704
of the Telecommunications Act, Pub. L. 104-104, 101 Stats. 56, 70 (Feb. 8,
1996) (codified as 47 U.S.C. §§ 253(a), 332(c)(7)), as may be amended or
superseded, and Section 6409(a) of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation
Act, Pub. L. 112-96, 126 Stat. 156 (Feb. 22, 2012) (codified as 47 U.S.C. §
1455(a)), as may be amended or superseded, and all FCC rules and regulations to
interpret and implement applicable federal statutes.
(Ord. 2018-47, passed 6-20-18)
§ 117.02 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Subject to R.C. § 4939.0314 and approval of an application under this
chapter, an operator may, as a permitted use not subject to zoning review or
approval, collocate a small cell facility and construct, maintain, modify,
operate, or replace wireless support structures in, along, across, upon, and
under the village right-of-way.
      (1)   An operator shall comply with generally applicable standards that
are consistent with this chapter and adopted by the village for construction
and public safety in the right-of-way.
      (2)   All structures and facilities shall be constructed and maintained
so as not to impede or impair public safety or the legal use of the right-of-
way by the village, the traveling public, or other public utilities.
   (B)   Except as provided in this chapter as well as any franchise, pole
attachment, or other agreements between the village and a cable operator or
public utility, the village shall not require any zoning or other approval,
consent, permit, certificate, or condition for the construction, replacement,
location, attachment, or operation of a small cell facility in the right-of-
way, or otherwise prohibit or restrain the activities as described in this
chapter, except as otherwise provided in division (B) of R.C. § 4939.0311.
   (C)   Exceptions for prior franchises or agreements are as outlined in R.C.
§ 4939.08.
   (D)   Exclusions.
      (1)   Amateur radio facilities. This chapter shall not govern the
installation of any amateur radio facility that is owned or operated by a
federally licensed amateur radio station operator or is used exclusively for
receive-only antennas.
      (2)   Certain over-the-air receiving devices (OTARD). This chapter shall
not govern the installation of any OTARD antennas covered under FCC regulations
codified in 47 C.F.R. §§1.4000 et seq., as may be amended or superseded. OTARD
antennas include, without limitation, direct-to-home satellite dish antennas
less than one meter in diameter, television antennas and wireless cable
antennas.
      (3)   Handsets and user equipment. This chapter shall not govern the use
of personal wireless devices (e.g., cell phones) or other consumer-grade mobile
user equipment used in the right-of-way.
   (E)   The permitting procedures and authorizations set forth in the
amendments made to R.C. §§ 4939.01 to 4939.09 by H.B. 478 of the 132nd General
Assembly shall apply only to the placement of small cell facilities and
wireless support structures in the right-of-way, and do not authorize the
construction and operation of a wireline backhaul facility.
   (F)   Relationship to other chapters. This chapter shall supersede all
conflicting requirements of other titles and chapters of this Code regarding
the locating and permitting of small cell facilities and wireless support
structures in the right-of-way.
   (G)   Nothing in this chapter precludes the village from applying its
generally applicable health, safety, and welfare regulations when granting
consent for a small cell facility or wireless support structure.
(Ord. 2018-47, passed 6-20-18)
§ 117.03 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General use of terms.
      (1)   The terms, phrases, words, and their derivations used in this
chapter shall have the meanings given in this section.
      (2)   When consistent with the context, words used in the present tense
also include the future tense; words in the plural number include the singular
number; and words in the singular number include the plural number.
      (3)   All terms used in the definition of any other term shall have their
meaning as otherwise defined in this section.
      (4)   The words "shall" and "will" are mandatory and "may" is permissive.
      (5)   Words not defined shall be given their common and ordinary meaning.
      ABANDONED. Small cell facilities or wireless support structures that are
unused for a period of 365 days without the operator otherwise notifying the
village and receiving the village's approval.
      AFFILIATE, When used in relation to any person, means another person who
owns or controls, is owned or controlled by, or is under common ownership or
control with, such person.
      AGENT. A person that provides the village written authorization to work
on behalf of a public utility.
      ANTENNA. Any transmitting or receiving device used in communications that
radiate or capture electromagnetic waves, digital signals, analog signals,
radio frequencies, wireless communications signals, or other communication
signals.
      APPLICANT. Any person that submits an application to the village to site,
install, construct, collocate, modify, and/or operate a small cell facility or
wireless support structure in the right-of-way according to the requirements of
this chapter.
      CABLE OPERATOR. Any person or group of persons:
         (a)   Who provides cable service over a cable system and directly or
through one or more affiliates owns a significant interest in such cable
system, or
         (b)   Who otherwise controls or is responsible for, through any
arrangement, the management and operation of such a cable system.
      CABLE SERVICE.
         (a)   The one-way transmission to subscribers of (i) video
programming, or (ii) other programming service, and
         (b)   Subscriber interaction, if any, which is required for the
selection of such video programming or other programming service.
      CABLE FRANCHISE. An initial authorization, or renewal thereof (including
a renewal of an authorization which has been granted subject to 47 U.S.C. 522
Section 546), issued by a franchising authority, whether such authorization is
designated as a franchise, permit, license, resolution, contract, certificate,
agreement, or otherwise, which authorizes the construction or operation of a
cable system.
      CLEAR ZONE. The unobstructed, traversable area provided beyond the edge
of the through traveled way for the recovery of errant vehicles. The clear zone
includes shoulders, bike lanes, and auxiliary lanes, except those auxiliary
lanes that function like through lanes. As defined in the ODOT Location and
Design Manual, Volume 1, Section 600—Roadside Design.
      COLLOCATION or COLLOCATE. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate,
or replace wireless facilities on a wireless support structure.
      DECORATIVE POLE. A pole, arch, or structure other than a street light
pole placed in the public way specifically designed and placed for aesthetic
purposes and on which no appurtenances or attachments have been placed except
for any of the following:
         (a)   Electric lighting;
         (b)   Specially designed informational or directional signage;
         (c)   Temporary holiday or special event attachments.
      ELIGIBLE FACILITIES REQUEST. The same as defined by the FCC in 47 U.S.C.
1455 (a)(2), as may be amended, which defines that term as "any request for
modification of an existing support structure that does not substantially
change the physical dimensions of such support structure, involving:
         (a)   Collocation of new small cell facilities;
         (b)   Removal of small cell facilities; or
         (c)   Replacement of small cell facilities.
      FRANCHISE AUTHORITY. See CABLE FRANCHISE.
      FCC. The U.S. Federal Communications Commission and any legally
appointed, designated, or elected agent or successor.
      GENERAL REQUIREMENTS. Those requirements established in §
117.06 for the design, construction, and installation of small cell facilities
and wireless support structures in the right-of-way, which are supplemented by
Design Guidelines, and which are effective insofar as they do not conflict with
state or federal law, including without limitation any applicable FCC rules and
regulations.
      MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A small cell facility that is not more than 24
inches in length, 15 inches in width, and 12 inches in height and that does not
have an exterior antenna more than 11 inches in length suspended on cable
strung between wireless support structures.
      OHIO MANUAL OF UNIFORM TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES (OMUTCD). The uniform
system of traffic control devices promulgated by the Ohio Department of
Transportation.
      OCCUPY OR USE. With respect to the right-of-way, to place a tangible
thing in the right-of-way for any purpose, including, but not limited to,
constructing, repairing, positioning, maintaining, or operating lines, poles,
pipes, conduits, ducts, equipment, or other structures,  appurtenances, or
facilities necessary for the delivery of public utility services or any
services provided by a cable operator.
      PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company, or other legal entity, private or public, whether for profit or not-
for-profit.
      PUBLIC UTILITY or UTILITY. A facilities-based provider of wireless
service to one or more end users in this state, or any company described in
R.C. § 4905.03 and as further defined in R.C. § 4905.02, including but not
limited to the following types of companies: telephone, electric light, gas,
natural gas, pipe-lines, water- works, and sewage disposal systems.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY FEE. A fee levied to recover the costs incurred by the
village and associated with the occupancy or use of right-of-way.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. The surface of and the space above and below the paved or
unpaved portions of any public street, public road, public highway, public
freeway, public lane, public path, public bike path, public way, public alley,
public court, public sidewalk, public boulevard, public parkway, public drive
and any other land dedicated or otherwise designated for the same now or
hereafter held by the village which shall, within its proper use and meaning in
the sole opinion of the Village Engineer, entitle a permittee, in accordance
with the terms hereof and of any right-of-way permit, to the use thereof for
the purpose of installing or operating any poles, wires, cables, transformers,
conductors, ducts, lines, mains, conduits, vaults, manholes, amplifiers,
appliances, attachments or other property or facilities as may be ordinarily
necessary and pertinent to the provision of utility, cable television,
communications or other services as set forth in any service agreement or any
right-of-way permit. RIGHT-OF-WAY shall not include private easements or public
property, except to the extent the use or occupation of public property is
specifically granted in a right-of-way permit or by administrative regulation.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT, NON-RESIDENTIAL. A permit issued by the village that
must be obtained in order to perform any work in, on, above, within, over,
below, under, or through any part of the public right-of-way, including, but
not limited to, the act or process of digging, boring, tunneling, trenching,
excavating, obstructing, or installing, as well as the act of opening and
cutting into the surface of any paved or improved surface that is part of the
public right-of-way.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT, SMALL CELL. A small cell facility or wireless
support structure right-of-way occupancy permit as further defined in §
117.04.
      SMALL CELL DESIGN GUIDELINES. Those detailed design guidelines,
specifications and examples promulgated by the Village Engineer for the design
and installation of small cell facilities and wireless support structures in
the right-of-way, which are effective insofar as they do not conflict with FCC
rules and regulations or the general small cell requirements established in §
117.06.
      SMALL CELL FACILITY. A wireless facility that meets both of the following
requirements:
         (a)   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of not more than six
cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements,
the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within an enclosure of
not more than six cubic feet in volume.
         (b)   All other wireless equipment associated with the facility is
cumulatively not more than 28 cubic feet in volume. The calculation of
equipment volume shall not include electric meters, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation boxes, grounding equipment, power transfer
switches, cut-off switches, and vertical cable runs for the connection of power
and other services.
      SMALL CELL FACILITY OPERATOR or OPERATOR. A wireless service provider, or
its designated agent, or cable operator, or its designated agent, or a video
service provider, or its designated agent that operates a small cell facility
and provides wireless service as defined herein. For the purpose of this
chapter, OPERATOR includes a wireless service provider, cable operator, or a
video service provider that provides information services as defined in the
"Telecommunications Act of 1996," 110 Stat.59, 47 U.S.C. 153(20), and services
that are fixed in nature or use unlicensed spectrum.
      TOLLING or TOLL PERIOD. The pausing or delaying of the running of a
required time period.
      UTILITY POLE. A structure that is designed for, or used for the purpose
of, carrying lines, cables, or wires for electric or telecommunications
service. UTILITY POLE excludes street signs and decorative poles.
      VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER. A person granted a video service authorization
under R.C. §§ 1332.21 to 1332.34.
      WIRELESS FACILITY.
         (a)   Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including
all of the following:
            1.   Equipment associated with wireless communications;
            2.   Radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable,
regular and backup power supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of
technological configuration.
         (b)   The term includes small cell facilities.
         (c)   The term does not include any of the following:
            1.   The structure or improvements on, under, or within which the
equipment is collocated;
            2.   Coaxial or fiber-optic cable that is between wireless support
structures or utility poles or that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or
directly associated with a particular antenna.
      WIRELESS SERVICE. Any services using licensed or unlicensed wireless
spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile, provided to the public using
wireless facilities.
      WIRELESS SERVICE PROVIDER. A person who provides wireless service as
defined herein.
      WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A pole, street light pole, traffic signal
pole, a 15-foot or taller sign pole, or utility pole capable of supporting
small cell facilities, excluding decorative poles, utility poles, or other
facilities used to supply traction power to public transit systems, including
railways, trams, streetcars, and trolleybuses.
      WIRELINE BACKHAUL FACILITY. A facility used for the transport of
communications service or any other electronic communications by coaxial,
fiber-optic cable, or any other wire.
(Ord. 2018-47, passed 6-20-18)
§ 117.04 APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   General requirements. The following requirements shall apply to all
small cell facilities and wireless support structures proposed within the
right-of-way.
      (1)   No person shall occupy or use the right-of-way except in accordance
with law.
      (2)   In occupying or using the right-of-way, no person shall
unreasonably compromise the public health, safety, and welfare.
      (3)   No person shall occupy or use the right-of-way without first
obtaining, under this chapter or R.C. § 1332.24 or 4939.031, any requisite
consent of the village.
   (B)   Pre-application conference.
      (1)   Purpose. Applicants are strongly encouraged to contact the village
and request a pre-application conference. This meeting will provide an
opportunity for early coordination regarding proposed small cell facilities and
wireless support structure locations, design, and the application submittal,
and the approval process in order to avoid any potential delays in the
processing of an application and deployment of small cell facilities and
wireless support structures in the village.
      (2)   Appointment required. An appointment is required for all pre-
application conferences. Applicants must contact the designated village staff
member as noted on the application form, who will provide applicants an
appointment with all applicable village representatives in a timely manner.
   (C)   Application required. Anyone seeking to site small cell facilities in
the right-of-way shall first duly file a written application with the Village
Engineer, in accordance with the requirements in this section and additional
detailed requirements set forth in the Design Guidelines as modified from time
to time by the Village Engineer.
   (D)   Categories of small cell applications. In accordance with FCC
regulations and state law, the Village Engineer shall classify every
application to locate small cell facility in the right-of-way as one of the
following types:
      (1)   Eligible facilities request:
         (a)   Involves collocation, replacement, modification, or removal of
small cell facilities on an existing wireless support structure; and
         (b)   Does not substantially change the physical dimensions of the
existing wireless support structure.
      (2)   Collocation with substantial modifications:
         (a)   Involves collocation, replacement or modification of small cell
facilities on an existing wireless support structure; and
         (b)   Substantially changes the physical dimensions of the existing
wireless support structure.
      (3)   New wireless support structure: Involves the construction,
modification, or replacement of a wireless support structure associated with a
small cell facility within the right-of-way.
      (4)   Wireless support structure removal (non-residential right-of-way
permit): Involves the removal of a wireless support structure installed within
the right-of-way in association with a small cell facility.
   (E)   Required small cell application materials. The applicant shall submit
to the village the following materials and information associated with each
small cell facility application type in order for the application to be
considered complete:
      (1)   Completed application form and fee as specified on the application.
      (2)   A scaled and dimensioned site plan (not smaller than one inch
equals 50 feet) clearly indicating the following:
         (a)   Proposed location within the right-of-way including nearest
cross street intersection(s).
         (b)   For adjacent parcel(s) perpendicular to the proposed small cell
facility location, property ownership, including current ownership.
         (c)   All existing conditions within 400 feet of the proposed
location, including but not limited to, buildings, utilities within the right-
of-way and associated above grade structures, location of electric service and
fiber optic cable, all other underground and overhead utilities, small cell
structures and facilities, sidewalks/shared-use paths, back of adjacent curb/
edge of pavement, driveways, and street trees.
         (d)   Dimensions shall be provided from the proposed small cell
facility to existing wireless support structures and equipment, utility
structures, back of curb/edges of pavement including driveways, sidewalks and
shared-use paths.
         (e)   Dimensions shall be provided between proposed wireless support
structures and associated ground mounted equipment.
         (f)   Scaled and dimensioned elevations/profiles and sections (not
smaller than one inch equals five feet) of existing wireless support structures
and/or new wireless support structures clearly indicating the following, as
applicable:
            1.   Height from established grade at the base of the wireless
support structure to the highest point of the wireless support structure and
the height to the highest point of proposed antenna or antenna enclosures, as
applicable (overall height).
            2.   Height from established grade at the base of the wireless
support structure to the lowest point of all proposed small cell equipment to
be installed on the wireless support structure.
            3.   The distance from the outer edge of the wireless support
structure parallel to the outer edge of all equipment associated with the small
cell facility to be installed on the support structure.
         (g)   Scaled and dimensioned details of proposed small cell
facilities, including elevations/profiles, plans and sections (not smaller than
one inch equals five feet) clearly indicating the following, as applicable:
            1.   Height, width, depth and volume in cubic feet of all proposed
antenna and exposed elements and/or proposed antenna enclosures.
            2.   Height, width, depth and volume of all other wireless
equipment associated with the facility, with all electric meters, concealment
elements, telecommunications demarcation boxes, grounding equipment, power
transfer switches, cut-off switches, and vertical cable runs for the connection
of power and other services clearly labeled.
            3.   Method of installation/connection to pole or ground, as
applicable.
            4.   Color specifications for all small cell support structures and
associated exposed equipment, cabinets and concealment elements.
            5.   Electrical plans and wiring diagrams.
            6.   Footing and foundation drawings and structural analysis sealed
and signed by a professional engineer in the State of Ohio.
         (h)   Manufacturer's specification sheets for all small cell facility
equipment proposed, including poles, equipment cabinets, shrouds, or
concealment devices, antennas, meters, radios, switches, telecommunications
demarcation boxes, and grounding equipment.
         (i)   Scaled and dimensioned landscape plans associated with required
screening of ground mounted small cell equipment (where applicable), including
a planting plan with proposed plant species, quantities, spacing, height at
installation, and planting details.
   (F)   Required application materials for small cell facilities removal. For
applications involving the removal of small cell facilities under an eligible
facilities request, the following materials and information shall be provided:
      (1)   Completed application form and fee as specified on the application.
      (2)   A scaled and dimensioned site plan (not smaller than one inch
equals 20 feet) clearly indicating the following:
         (a)   Proposed location within the right-of-way including nearest
cross street intersection;
         (b)   Adjacent parcel(s) perpendicular to the existing small cell
facility location property ownership, including current ownership;
         (c)   All existing conditions within 50 feet of the existing small
cell facilities locations to be removed, including but not limited to,
buildings, utilities within the right-of-way and associated above grade
structures, location of electric service and fiber optic cable, all other
underground and overhead utilities, small cell structures and facilities,
sidewalks/shared-use paths, back of adjacent curb/edge of pavement, driveways,
street trees and plant material.
      (3)   Scaled and dimensioned site and/or structure remediation details in
accordance with small cell design guidelines requirements (not smaller than one
inch equals four feet) clearly indicating the following:
         (a)   Proposed remediation plan for modifications made to village-
owned wireless support structures and other areas of the right-of-way
associated with collocation of small cell wireless facilities and ground
mounted equipment after the removal of these facilities.
         (b)   Proposed restoration of electric and fiber optic connections
after removal of small cell facilities, as applicable.
   (G)   Required application materials for wireless support structure removal.
For applications involving the removal of a wireless support structure
installed in association with a small cell facility, the following materials
and information must be provided:
      (1)   Non-residential right-of-way permit application and fee as
specified.
(Ord. 2018-47, passed 6-20-18)
§ 117.05 APPLICATION REVIEW TIMEFRAMES AND PROCESS.
   (A)   Permit application review timeframes.
      (1)   Eligible facilities request. Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 4939.01 to
4939.037, the village shall grant or deny its consent for an eligible
facilities request under 47 C.F.R. 1.40001 not later than 60 days after the
date of filing by an entity of a completed application.
      (2)   Collocation with substantial modifications. The village shall grant
or deny its consent for requests to collocate, or to replace or modify a small
cell facility on an existing wireless support structure where substantial
modifications are required to the wireless support structure not later than 90
days after the date of filing by a person of a completed application.
      (3)   New wireless support structure. The village shall grant or deny its
consent for requests to construct, modify, or replace a wireless support
structure associated with a small cell facility not later than 120 days
following the date of filing of a complete application by an entity.
      (4)   Wireless support structure removal. The village shall grant or deny
its consent for requests to remove wireless support structures associated with
small cell facilities from the right-of-way typical to the review timeframes
for the non-residential right-of-way permit required for this activity.
   (B)   Failure to grant or deny within prescribed timeframes. If the village
fails to approve or deny a request for consent under this section or a request
for a relevant work permit within the required time period, provided the time
period is not tolled under division (F) of this section, the request shall be
deemed granted upon the requesting entity providing notice to the village that
the time period for acting on the request has lapsed.
   (C)   Application denials.
      (1)   The village shall not unreasonably withhold or deny consent for
small cell facilities and wireless support structures within the right-of-way.
      (2)   If a request for consent is denied, the village shall provide in
writing its reasons for denying the request, supported by substantial,
competent evidence, and such information as the applicant may reasonably
request to obtain consent. The denial of consent shall not unreasonably
discriminate against the entity requesting the consent.
      (3)   Except in the case of a public utility subject to the jurisdiction
and recognized on the rolls of the public utilities commission or of a cable
operator possessing a valid franchise awarded pursuant to the "Cable
Communications Policy Act of 1984," 98 Stat. 2779, 47 U.S.C.A. 541, the
village, for good cause shown, may withhold, deny, or delay its consent to any
person based upon the person's failure to possess the financial, technical, and
managerial resources necessary to protect the public health, safety, and
welfare.
   (D)   Tolling of required timeframes.
      (1)   The time periods required in division (A) of this section may be
tolled only:
         (a)   By mutual agreement between the entity requesting consent and
the village;
         (b)   In cases where the village determines that the application is
incomplete; or
         (c)   If the number of requests for consent for small cell facilities
or wireless support structures received is likely to result in difficulty
processing applications within the time limits set forth in division (A) of
this section due to the lack of resources of the village, then the village may
toll the time limits as follows:
            1.   The time period may be tolled for up to 21 days for the first
15 small cell facility or wireless support structure requests received by the
village above 15 applications within any consecutive 30-day period.
            2.   Further, for every additional 15 requests that the village
receives above the first 15 applications, the village may toll the time period
for those requests for up to 15 days in addition to the time period provided in
division (D)(1)(c)1. of this section.
            3.   In no instance shall the village toll the time period for any
small cell facility or wireless support structure request by more than 90
consecutive days. Upon request, the village shall provide an operator written
notice of the time limit for a small cell facility or wireless support
structure request.
      (2)   To toll the time period for incompleteness, the village shall
provide written notice to the person requesting consent not later than 30 days
after receiving the request, clearly and specifically delineating all missing
documents or information. The missing documents or information shall be
reasonably related to determining whether the request meets the requirements of
applicable federal and state law. Any notice of incompleteness requiring other
information or documentation, including information of the type described in
R.C. § 4939.0313 or documentation intended to illustrate the need for the
request or to justify the business decision for the request, does not toll the
time period.
      (3)   The time period for granting or denying consent resumes when the
entity makes a supplemental submission in response to the village's notice of
incompleteness.
      (4)   If a supplemental submission is inadequate, the village shall
notify the entity not later than ten days after receiving the supplemental
submission that the supplemental submission did not provide the information
identified in the original notice delineating missing documents or information.
The time period may be tolled in the case of second or subsequent notices under
the procedures identified in divisions (D)(1) to (D)(3) of this section. Second
or subsequent notices of incompleteness may not specify missing documents or
information that was not delineated in the original notice of incompleteness.
   (E)   Timeframe for completion of permit.
      (1)   Permits granted for an eligible facilities request, collocation
with substantial modifications and new wireless support structure shall be
completed by the operator or its agent within 180 days after issuance of the
permit, unless:
         (a)   The village and the operator agree to extend this period; or
         (b)   A delay is caused by make-ready work for a village-owned
wireless support structure or decorative pole or by the lack of commercial
power or backhaul availability at the site, provided that:
            1.   The operator has made a timely request within 60 days after
the issuance of the permit for commercial power or backhaul services; and
            2.   The additional time to complete installation does not exceed
360 days after issuance of the permit.
      (2)   If divisions (E)(l)(a) and (b) of this section cannot be met, the
permit shall be void unless the village grants an extension in writing to the
operator.
   (F)   Consolidated application for multiple small cell facilities and/or
support structures.
      (1)   Applicants seeking to construct, modify, collocate, or replace more
than one small cell facility or more than one wireless support structure may
file at the applicants discretion, a consolidated application for up to 30
small cell facility requests or up to 30 wireless support structure requests in
a single application and receive a single permit for the construction,
modification, collocation, or replacement of the small cell facilities or
wireless support structures subject to the following:
         (a)   This single application may be filed for multiple small cell
facilities or multiple wireless support structures only if they are of
substantially the same type.
         (b)   The village may separately address small cell facility
collocations or wireless support structures for which incomplete information
has been received or which are denied.
      (2)   In the case of a consolidated application, the fees provided for in
R.C. § 4939.0316 and §
117.04 may be cumulative. However, the village, at its discretion may opt to
reduce such fees in order to encourage consolidated application submittals.
      (3)   In the case of a consolidated application, each small cell facility
or wireless support structure proposed to be constructed, modified, collocated
on, or replaced shall constitute a separate request for consent for purposes of
tolling the response deadline as authorized under R.C. § 4939.036. A request by
a single operator for a new or replacement support structure and associated
small cell facility constitutes one request.
   (G)   Small cell and wireless support structure activities not requiring
consent.
      (1)   Village consent shall not be required for either of the following
activities conducted in the right-of- way:
         (a)   Routine maintenance of wireless facilities;
         (b)   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities
that are consistent with the village's current design requirements and
guidelines and that are either:
            1.   Substantially similar to the existing wireless facilities; or
            2.   The same size or smaller than the existing wireless
facilities.
      (2)   The village may require a non-residential right-of-way permit for
any activity described in division (G)(1) of this section and for any activity
for which consent is authorized herein and under R.C. § 4939.031. Any such
permit shall be subject to any applicable state law.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the amendments made to R.C. §§ 4939.01 to 4939.09
by H.B. 478 of the 132nd General Assembly, a cable or video service provider
shall not be required to obtain permits from the village or to pay fees, with
the exception of work permits and associated fees, to place, operate, maintain,
or replace micro wireless facilities pursuant to an existing franchise or video
service authorization under R.C. Chapter 1332; nor shall a holder of an
existing franchise or video service authorization be required to obtain
additional authorizations or to pay additional fees for the placement of micro
wireless facilities already covered under an existing franchise or video
service authorization under R.C. Chapter 1332.
(Ord. 2018-47, passed 6-20-18)
§ 117.06 GENERAL SMALL CELL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Existing wireless support structures.
      (1)   Structural integrity of existing support structures.
         (a)   The village shall not authorize any attachments to village-owned
infrastructure that negatively impacts the structural integrity of the support
structure.
         (b)   The village may condition approval of the collocation on
replacement or modification of the wireless support structure at the operator's
cost if the village determines that replacement or modification is necessary
for compliance with the village's written construction and/or safety standards.
A replacement or modification of the wireless support structure shall conform
to the applicable design guideline(s) and the village's applicable
specifications for the type of structure being replaced. The village may retain
ownership of a replacement wireless support structure.
      (2)   Maximum permitted height. For an existing wireless support
structure, the antenna and any associated shroud or concealment material are
permitted to be collocated at the top of the existing wireless support
structure and shall not increase the height of the existing wireless support
structure by more than five feet, unless otherwise specified in the small cell
design guidelines based on the specific context and characteristics of the
wireless support structure.
      (3)   Right to reserve space on wireless support structure or pole. The
village may reserve space for future public safety or transportation uses in
the right-of-way or on a wireless support structure or pole owned by the
village in a documented and approved plan in place at the time an application
is filed.
         (a)   A reservation of space shall not preclude placement of a pole or
collocation of a small cell facility.
         (b)   If replacement of the village's pole or wireless support
structure is necessary to accommodate the collocation of the small cell
facility and the future use, the operator shall pay for the replacement of the
pole or wireless support structure, and the replaced pole or wireless support
structure must accommodate the future use.
   (B)   New wireless support structures/poles.
      (1)   Maximum permitted height.
         (a)   For a new wireless support structure, the overall height of the
wireless support structure and any collocated antennas shall not be more than
40 feet in height above established grade measured at the base of the wireless
support structure.
         (b)   The village shall limit the maximum permissible height of
wireless support structures to not less than 35 feet in height above
established grade measured at the base of the structure in areas meeting the
following criteria:
            1.   The area is within 300 feet of the proposed site for a new
wireless support structure in the same right-of-way or a connecting right-of-
way, and where there are no wireless support structures or utility poles taller
than 30 feet in height above ground level; and
            2.   The maximum allowable height for building construction in the
underlying or adjacent zoning district is 35 feet in height above ground level
or less.
      (2)   Multiple requests for wireless support structures in violation of
spacing requirements. If multiple requests are received by the village to
install two or more poles that would violate applicable spacing requirements
outlined in the small cell design guidelines, or to collocate two or more small
cell facilities on the same wireless support structure, notwithstanding
division (I) of R.C. § 4939.0313, the village may resolve conflicting requests
through whatever reasonable and nondiscriminatory manner it deems appropriate.
      (3)   Village directed alternate location for wireless support
structures. The village may propose an alternate location to any proposed
location of a new wireless support structure, subject to the following:
         (a)   That the alternate location is within 100 feet of the proposed
location or within a distance that is equivalent to the width of the right-of-
way in or on which the new wireless support structure is proposed, whichever is
greater; and
         (b)   The operator shall use the alternate location if it has the
right to do so on reasonable terms and conditions and the alternate location
does not impose technical limits or additional costs.
      (4)   Waiver to village directed alternate wireless support structure
location or undergrounding requirements.
         (a)   Small cell operators may seek a waiver of the undergrounding or
alternative location requirements for the placement of a new wireless support
structure to support small cell facilities if the operator is unable to achieve
its service objective using a small cell facility under the following
circumstances:
            1.   From a location in the right-of-way where the prohibition does
not apply;
            2.   In a utility easement the operator has the right to access; or
            3.   In or on other suitable locations or structures made available
by the village at reasonable rates, fees, and terms.
         (b)   The village shall process waivers in a reasonable and
nondiscriminatory manner that does not have the effect of prohibiting the
provision of wireless service.
   (C)   Antenna.
      (1)   Size. Each antenna shall be located entirely within an enclosure of
not more than six cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has
exposed elements, the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within
an enclosure of not more than six cubic feet in volume.
   (D)   Small cell facilities installed on wireless support structures.
      (1)   Size. Exclusive of the antenna, all wireless equipment associated
with the facility shall not cumulatively exceed 28 cubic feet in volume. The
calculation of equipment volume shall not include electric meters, concealment
elements, telecommunications demarcation boxes, grounding equipment, power
transfer switches, cut-off switches, and vertical cable runs for the connection
of power and other services.
      (2)   Equipment enclosures required. All small cell facilities mounted to
wireless support structures or located on the ground shall be fully contained
within enclosures or cabinets.
   (E)   Power and fiber optic supply.
      (1)   Independent power source required. Small cell facilities located on
village-owned support structures may not use the same power source providing
power for the existing facilities original to the purposes of the support
structure. Independent power source must be contained within a separate conduit
inside the existing support structure.
      (2)   Applicant shall coordinate, establish, maintain and pay for all
power and communication connections with private utilities.
(Ord. 2018-47, passed 6-20-18)
§ 117.07 SMALL CELL DESIGN GUIDELINES.
   (A)   The Village Engineer shall promulgate additional detailed small cell
design guidelines with objective, technically feasible criteria applied in a
non-discriminatory manner that reasonably match the aesthetics and character of
the immediate area regarding all of the following, which the village shall
consider in reviewing an application:
      (1)   The location of any ground-mounted small cell facilities;
      (2)   The location of a small cell facility on a wireless support
structure;
      (3)   The appearance and concealment of small cell facilities, including
those relating to materials used for arranging, screening, and landscaping;
      (4)   The design and appearance of a wireless support structure including
any height requirements adopted in accordance with §
117.06.
   (B)   The small cell design guidelines will accord with §
117.06 but will provide greater detail, description, and examples of acceptable
small cell facilities including visual depictions.
§ 117.08 STANDARD CONDITIONS OF PERMIT APPROVAL.
   (A)   Standard conditions of approval. Permission to site small cell
facilities and wireless support structures in the right-of-way shall be
conditioned on compliance with the standard conditions of approval provided in
§
117.08. The Village Engineer may add or modify conditions of approval as
necessary or appropriate to protect and promote the public health, safety, and
welfare.
   (B)   Small cell facility permit duration. The village's approval term of an
attachment to a wireless support structure shall be for a period of not less
than ten years, with presumption of renewal for successive five-year terms,
subject to terms providing for early termination or nonrenewal for cause or by
mutual agreement and unless otherwise agreed to by both the operator and the
village, except for generally applied permitting to safeguard the public
health, safety, and welfare. An operator may remove its small cell facilities
at any time subject to applicable permit requirements and may stop paying
annual charges or fees under division (N) of this section.
   (C)   Compliance with all applicable laws. Permittee shall at all times
maintain compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws,
regulations, ordinances, or other rules.
   (D)   Inspections; emergencies. The village or its designee may inspect
small cell facilities and wireless support structures in the right-of-way upon
reasonable notice to the permittee. The permittee shall cooperate with all
inspections. The village reserves the right to support, repair, disable, or
remove any elements of the facility in emergencies or when the facility
threatens imminent harm to persons or property.
   (E)   Relocation or adjustment as requested by village. If requested by the
village, in order to accomplish construction and maintenance activities
directly related to improvements for the health, safety, and welfare of the
public, an operator shall relocate or adjust its facilities within the right-
of-way at no cost to the village, as long as such request similarly binds all
users in or on such public way. Such relocation or adjustment shall be
completed in accordance with local law.
   (F)   Contact information for responsible parties. Permittee shall at all
times maintain accurate contact information for all parties responsible for the
facility, which shall include a phone number, street mailing address, and email
address for at least one natural person. All such contact information for
responsible parties shall be provided to the Village Engineer.
   (G)   Indemnification. Any operator who owns or operates small cell
facilities or wireless support structures in the right-of-way shall indemnify,
protect, defend, and hold the village and its elected officials, officers,
employees, agents, and volunteers harmless against any and all claims,
lawsuits, judgments, costs, liens, losses, expenses, fees to include reasonable
attorney fees and costs of defense, proceedings, actions, demands, causes of
action, liability and suits of any kind and nature, including personal or
bodily injury or death, property damage or other harm for which recovery of
damages is sought, to the extent that it is caused by the negligence of the
operator who owns or operates small cell facilities and wireless service in the
right-of-way, any agent, officer, director, representative, employee,
affiliate, or subcontractor of the operator, or their respective officers,
agents, employees, directors, or representatives while installing, repairing,
or maintaining facilities in the right-of-way.
   (H)   Interference with public safety radio services. In the event that the
village has reason to believe that permittee's radio communications operations
are causing interference with the village's radio communications operations,
then the permittee shall, at its cost, immediately cooperate with the village
to either rule out permittee as the interference source or eliminate the
interference. Cooperation with the village may include, but shall not be
limited to, temporarily switching the small cell facilities on and off for
testing.
   (I)   Adverse impacts on adjacent properties. Permittee shall undertake all
reasonable efforts to avoid undue adverse impacts to adjacent properties and/or
uses that may arise from the construction, operation, maintenance,
modification, or removal of the small cell facility and/or wireless support
structure.
   (J)   Good condition required. Small cell facilities and support structures
shall at all times be kept and maintained in good condition, order, and repair
by qualified maintenance and construction personnel, so that the same shall not
menace or endanger the health, safety or welfare of any person or property.
   (K)   Graffiti abatement. Permittee shall remove any graffiti on the small
cell facility at permittee's sole expense.
   (L)   RF exposure compliance. All facilities must comply with all standards
and regulations of the FCC and any other state or federal government agency
with the authority to regulate RF exposure standards.
   (M)   Relocation for public improvement projects. Permittee shall remove and
relocate the permitted small cell facility and/or support structure at
permittee's sole expense to accommodate construction of a public improvement
project by the village as required under this chapter.
   (N)   Removal of small cell facilities if use discontinued or abandoned.
      (1)   In the event that the use of a small cell facility is discontinued,
the owner shall submit an eligible facilities request as required by §
117.04(F), as written notice to the village of its intent to discontinue use
and the date when the use shall be discontinued. If a small cell wireless
facility is not removed within 365 days of discontinued use, the small cell
facility shall be considered abandoned and the village may remove it at the
owner's expense.
      (2)   In the event that a wireless support structure is discontinued, the
owner shall submit a written notice to the village of its intent to remove the
wireless support structure from the right-of-way. If a wireless support
structure is not removed within 365 days of discontinued use, the wireless
support structure shall be considered abandoned and the village may remove it
at the owner's expense.
      (3)   Small cell facilities and wireless support structures determined by
the village to be abandoned without application notice from the owner may be
removed by the village at the owner's expense to ensure the public health,
safety, and welfare.
(Ord. 2018-47, passed 6-20-18)
§ 117.09 SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Prevention of failures and accidents. Any person who owns a small cell
wireless facility sited in the right-of-way shall at all times employ ordinary
and reasonable care and install and maintain in use nothing less than the best
available technology for preventing failures and accidents which are likely to
cause damage, injury, or nuisance to the public.
   (B)   Compliance with fire safety and FCC regulations. Small cell
facilities, wires, cables, fixtures, and other equipment shall be installed and
maintained in substantial compliance with the requirements of the National
Electric Code, all FCC, state, and local regulations, and in such manner that
will not interfere with the use of other property.
   (C)   Surety bond or equivalent financial tool for cost of removal. All
owners must procure and provide to the village a bond, or must provide proof of
an equivalent financial mechanism, to ensure compliance with all provisions of
this section. The bond or equivalent financial method must specifically cover
the cost of removal of unused or abandoned small cell facilities or damage to
village property caused by an operator or its agent of each small cell facility
which the owner installs in the right-of-way in case the village has to remove
or pay for removal of the wireless facility. Two acceptable alternatives to a
bond include a funds set-aside and a letter of credit.
(Ord. 2018-47, passed 6-20-18)
§ 117.10 RECOVERY OF COSTS.
   (A)   Application processing fee. For processing an application for consent,
the village may charge a fee for each small cell facility and wireless support
structure requested as prescribed under R.C. § 4939.031 and as listed on the
associated application forms. The village may adjust this fee 10% every five
years, rounded to the nearest $5.
   (B)   Annual collocation fee. For reimbursement for operator's attachment of
small cell facilities to wireless support structures owned or operated by the
village and located in the right-of-way, the village may charge an annual fee
as prescribed under R.C. § 4939.031 and as listed on associated application
forms. The village may adjust this fee 10% every five years, rounded to the
nearest $5.
   (C)   Tax liabilities and assessments not applicable. Placement of small
cell facilities in the right-of-way or attachment of small cell facilities to a
wireless support structure and any fees associated therewith shall not subject
a municipal corporation to any state or local tax liabilities or assessments.
(Ord. 2018-47, passed 6-20-18)
§ 117.11 SEVERABILITY.
   The provisions of any part of this chapter are severable. If any provision
or subsection, or the application of any provision or subsection to any person
or circumstances is held invalid, the remaining provisions, subsection, and
applications of such ordinance to other persons or circumstances shall not be
made invalid as well. It is declared to be the intent of this section that the
remaining provisions would have been adopted had such invalid provisions not
been included in this chapter when originally adopted by Council.
(Ord. 2018-47, passed 6-20-18)
§ 117.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   In addition to any other penalties set forth in this chapter, any
person or permittee violating any section in this chapter shall be guilty of a
minor misdemeanor. Each day the violation continues shall be deemed a separate
offense.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall prevent the village from taking any other lawful
action, including civil actions at law or equity, including temporary
restraining orders, preliminary injunctions and permanent injunctions, as is
necessary to prevent or remedy any violations.
(Ord. 2018-47, passed 6-20-18)
CHAPTER 118: FALSE ALARMS
Section
   
118.01   Purpose
   
118.02   Definitions
   
118.03   Alarm user responsibility
§ 118.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the police and fire emergency
services of this village from misuse.
(Ord. 2019-36, passed 5-1-19)
§ 118.02 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter:
   ALARM SYSTEM. Any assembly or equipment, mechanical or electrical, arranged
to signal the occurrence of an illegal entry or other activity requiring urgent
attention and to which police or fire emergency personnel are expected to
respond.
   ALARM USER. A person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company
or organization of any kind in control of any building, structure or facility
where an alarm system is maintained.
   FALSE ALARM. The activation of an alarm system through mechanical failure,
malfunction, improper installation, improper maintenance or the negligence of
the owner or lessee of an alarm system or of his employees or agents. Such
terminology does not include, for example, alarms caused by tornadoes,
earthquakes, power outages or other similar violent conditions.
(Ord. 2019-36, passed 5-1-19)
§ 118.03 ALARM USER RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   No alarm user shall allow more than four false alarms to be
transmitted during any given consecutive six-month period. An alarm shall be
classified as false if the responding police or fire personnel see no evidence
of fire, smoke, robbery, burglary, vandalism, unauthorized intrusion or medical
emergency.
   (B)   Following four false alarms within a six-month period, the person
owning or leasing such system shall, for each false alarm thereafter, pay an
administrative fine of [text missing].
   (C)   No alarm user shall knowingly allow an alarm system to be used by any
person or entity to create a false alarm as defined in this chapter.
   (D)   If any of the charges for false police or fire alarms imposed herein
are not paid upon receipt of the invoice for same, or within 45 days
thereafter, such charges shall be referred to the Village Law Director for
appropriate legal action.
   (E)   Within 20 days of the service of a violation under this chapter, any
alarm user affected thereby may appeal the classification of an alarm as a
false alarm herein to the Director of Public Safety, who shall hear and decide
the appeal within 14 days thereafter.
(Ord. 2019-36, passed 5-1-19)
CHAPTER 119: SPECIAL EVENTS
Section
   
119.01   Purpose
   
119.02   Definitions
   
119.03   Permit required
   
119.04   Applications
   
119.05   Conflicts with previously scheduled events
   
119.06   Standards for issuance of permit
   
119.07   Notice of rejection of application for a permit
   
119.08   Liability insurance
   
119.09   Sidewalk obstructions
   
119.10   Village services
   
119.11   Vendors
   
119.12   Permits, licenses, inspections
   
119.13   Mobile food vehicles
   
119.14   Special event deposit required
   
119.15   Special event application fee
   
119.16   Waiver of special event application fee
   
119.17   Special event permit revocation
   
119.18   Letter of intent
§ 119.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to make provision for special events which
may be held on property within the village regardless of the zoning provisions
generally applicable to such property. Any such special events shall be subject
to the requirements of this chapter and the Village of Mogadore Special Events
Guidebook.
(Ord. 2022-33, passed 4-20-22)
§ 119.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. A person designated to work with village personnel to plan the
special event.
   PERSON. Includes, in addition to an individual or entity specified in R.C. §
1.59(C), any governmental entity.
   PRIVATE EVENT.
      (1)   A small social gathering on private property that is not open to
the public, constitutes a special event, but at which a mobile food vehicle, as
defined in Chapter 120, will operate.
      (2)   A small social gathering on private property that is not a special
event but at which a mobile food vehicle, as defined in Chapter 120, will
operate.
   RESTRICTED ENTERTAINMENT AREA. Any wholly or partially enclosed area,
whether indoors or outdoors, that has limited access through established
entrances or established turnstiles or similar devices.
   SPECIAL EVENT or EVENT.
      (1)   A fair, festival, concert, parade, running/walking/cycling events,
public performance, or announced public gathering held on a public street,
right-of-way, or property owned or leased by the village, and events that
require the closure of a public street. Special event also includes events on
private property, which are open to the public and the expected attendance is
1,000 or more people. special events possess one or more of the following
characteristics:
         (a)   Any activity involving entertainment and/or amplified sound,
food, beverage, merchandise sales or any activity such as a festival, carnival/
circus, sports event, trade show, craft show, car show, public dance, special
event or performance;
         (b)   Any activity that may substantially increase or disrupt the
normal flow of traffic on any street or highway;
         (c)   Any activity which involves the use of village facilities;
         (d)   Any activity which involves the use of village services that
would not be necessary in the absence of such an event;
         (e)   Any activity that requires the closure of a public thoroughfare
or right-of-way and rerouting of traffic; or
         (f)   Any activity which includes a mobile food vehicle, as defined in
Chapter 120, as part of the event.
      (2)   The Village of Mogadore School District sponsored student events
are not considered special events.
   VILLAGE COUNCIL. The Village Council or the Council's designee.
   VILLAGE FACILITIES. Village-owned parking lots and village-owned restrooms.
(Ord. 2022-33, passed 4-20-22)
§ 119.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person or entity shall hold a special event within the Village of
Mogadore without a permit issued by the village as required by this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-33, passed 4-20-22)
§ 119.04 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Any person wanting to hold a special event shall submit a special
event application with the fee and proof of insurance required by this section
to the village no later than 180 days prior to the date of the requested
special event. Events on private property that are open to the public and with
an anticipated attendance of more than 1,000 persons shall complete a special
event application form from which the village will determine if a special event
permit is necessary for that event based on the characteristics set forth in §
119.02(A)(1) through (A)(6). If the village determines that a special event
permit is not required for the event on private property, the application fee
will be returned to the applicant.
   (B)   A non-refundable application fee in accordance with the Village of
Mogadore Special Event Fee Schedule is due at the time of application.
   (C)   Each application shall comply with the requirements delineated in the
special events guidebook.
   (D)   If on private property, the applicant shall provide a letter of
permission from the owner of the property on which the special event is to be
held.
   (E)   Any activity not expressly stated in an approved application or permit
shall be prohibited.
(Ord. 2022-33, passed 4-20-22)
§ 119.05 CONFLICTS WITH PREVIOUSLY SCHEDULED EVENTS.
   Each special event date will be considered for approval on a first-come,
first-serve basis, based on the date the application was submitted to the
Village Assistant Clerk-Treasurer. No special event will be permitted which
would conflict with other civic or special events, whether previously
authorized by the village or by other appropriate authorities. The application
must include all required supporting materials, fees and insurance requirements
before the village will approve the requested event.
(Ord. 2022-33, passed 4-20-22)
§ 119.06 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The village shall issue the special event permit as provided for hereunder
when, from the consideration of the application and from other information as
may otherwise be obtained, it appears that:
   (A)   The event will not substantially interrupt the safe and orderly
movement of other pedestrian or vehicular traffic in or contiguous to the route
or location of the special event.
   (B)   The concentration of persons, animals and/or vehicles at the event
will not interfere unduly with proper fire and police protection of or
ambulance service to areas contiguous to the assembly area or other areas of
the village.
   (C)   The conduct of the event will not result in noise at a level
inappropriate to the area surrounding the event.
   (D)   The event will not interfere with previously scheduled activities or
with scheduled maintenance or repair work to be carried out on the streets or
thoroughfares to be used.
   (E)   The event will not place the participants or village residents in
unnecessary danger.
   (F)   The applicant has satisfied the requirements delineated by Village
Council, the Mayor, Chief of Police, Fire Chief, and Village Zoning Inspector.
   (G)   The applicant has tendered the total payment of the special events
deposit.
   (H)   The applicant has submitted the required proof of insurance coverage
naming the village and any other entity identified by the village as insureds
with a copy of the insurance policy.
   (I)   The applicant's history with special events permits and compliance
with village rules and regulations.
   (J)   The applicant has satisfied all the requirements delineated by the
Village of Mogadore Special Events Guidebook.
(Ord. 2022-33, passed 4-20-22)
§ 119.07 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF APPLICATION FOR A PERMIT.
   The Village Council shall initially act upon the application for a permit
within 45 days after the filing thereof by inviting the applicant to appear
before it to answer questions and present its application, if necessary. If for
any reason a longer period of time is required, the reason for such a delay
shall be provided in writing to the applicant. If the village disapproves the
application, the village will make a reasonable effort to notify the applicant,
by email, a copy of the notice of rejection and the reason therefor, within 48
hours of the rejection.
(Ord. 2022-33, passed 4-20-22)
§ 119.08 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   Each applicant for a special event shall provide proof of general liability
insurance, in an amount as set by either Village Council or the Mayor with the
input of the Village Fire Chief and Chief of Police in an amount not less than
$1,000,000, which shall indemnify and save harmless the village and any other
party designated by the village from any and all judgments, costs or expenses,
including professional fees, which the village may incur or suffer by
permitting the special event. The certificate of general liability insurance
must establish that the village is an additional insured following the special
event guidebook. The applicant must also provide the village with a full copy
of the insurance policy not less than thirty days before the special event.
(Ord. 2022-33, passed 4-20-22)
§ 119.09 SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Any proposed sidewalk obstructions for a special event shall be limited in
scope so as not to be hazardous or constitute a nuisance.
(Ord. 2022-33, passed 4-20-22)
§ 119.10 VILLAGE SERVICES.
   The village shall invoice the applicant for village services provided to
special events at rates set by the Village Council. The Village Council or the
Council's designee reserves the right to determine the services and levels of
services provided to any event. The amount of the services will be deducted
from the special event deposit.
(Ord. 2022-33, passed 4-20-22)
§ 119.11 VENDORS.
   If the event includes vendors or concessionaires other than the applicant or
a sponsoring organization, each vendor must submit a vendor application form
and proof of insurance through a certificate of insurance for a minimum
$1,000,000, coverage per occurrence, and establishing that the village is an
additional insured.
(Ord. 2022-33, passed 4-20-22)
§ 119.12 PERMITS, LICENSES, INSPECTIONS.
   The applicant is responsible for obtaining all permits, licenses and/or
inspections required by outside agencies and organizations.
(Ord. 2022-33, passed 4-20-22)
§ 119.13 MOBILE FOOD VEHICLES.
   An applicant that plans to use mobile food vehicles, as defined in
Chapter 120, at a special event or private event must provide proof that all
mobile food vehicle owners/operators have applied for and received an annual
mobile food vehicle license from the village, as required by
Chapter 120.
(Ord. 2022-33, passed 4-20-22)
§ 119.14 SPECIAL EVENT DEPOSIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   At the time the Village Council approves the application for special
event, it will designate the amount the applicant must deposit with the village
for the special event deposit. When the applicant deposits the total amount of
the special event deposit with the Village Assistant Clerk-Treasurer, it will
receive the special event permit. Failure to deposit the total amount with the
Village Assistant Clerk-Treasurer will result in the village refusing to issue
the special event permit.
   (B)   Upon conclusion of the special event and following the special event
guidebook, the amount of the deposit not expended to reimburse the village for
the costs it incurred in preparation for, during, and after the conclusion of
the event, will be returned to the applicant following the procedure identified
in the Village Special Events Guidebook.
(Ord. 2022-33, passed 4-20-22)
§ 119.15 SPECIAL EVENT APPLICATION FEE.
   The fee for a special event permit shall be indicated in the Village of
Mogadore Special Events Fee Schedule.
(Ord. 2022-33, passed 4-20-22)
§ 119.16 WAIVER OF SPECIAL EVENT APPLICATION FEE.
   The Village Council or Mayor may, in his discretion, grant without cost a
permit for the holding of a special event for not more than six consecutive
days, where all of the performances are fostered and supervised by civic
interests of the municipality, and a substantial part of the funds derived
therefrom is expended for charitable or civic purposes.
(Ord. 2022-33, passed 4-20-22)
§ 119.17 SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT REVOCATION.
   The village shall have the authority to revoke a special event permit issued
hereunder upon application of the standards for issuance and the reasons stated
in the Village of Mogadore Special Event Guidebook.
(Ord. 2022-33, passed 4-20-22)
§ 119.18 LETTER OF INTENT.
   The applicant shall send a letter of intent to all occupants, residents,
business, and other entities that will be impacted by the special event as
designated by village personnel at least 30 days prior to the special event.
The letter will advise the selected persons and entities of the special event
and the potential impact on them or their properties along with any other
information required by the village. The letter of intent will need to be
approved by the Mayor before sending.
(Ord. 2022-33, passed 4-20-22)
CHAPTER 120: MOBILE FOOD TRUCKS
Section
   
120.01   Definitions
   
120.02   General provisions
   
120.03   Permit required for operation; application
   
120.04   Locations and hours of operation
   
120.05   Operating requirements
§ 120.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CANTEEN TRUCK. A vehicle that operates to provide food services to employees
at locations where access to other food service is impractical or unavailable
from which the operator vends fruits, vegetables, pre-cooked foods such as hot
dogs, and foods or beverages except for the heating of pre-cooked foods; which
operate at a single location and do not advertise in any form to the general
public except by virtue of signage on the vehicle. Canteen trucks that operate
other than as defined herein are food trucks and must comply with all food
truck regulations.
   FOOD TRUCK. A vehicle from which the operator cooks, prepares or assembles
food items with the intent to sell such items to the general public and which
may market their products to the public via advertising, including social
media.
   FOOD TRUCK RALLY. Any event or location where three or more food trucks are
present.
   MOBILE FOOD SERVICE VEHICLE. A food truck, canteen truck or ice cream truck,
including any other portable unit that is attached to a motorized vehicle and
that is intended for use or in service to the operations of the mobile food
service vehicle.
   OPERATE. To promote or sell food, beverages, and other permitted items from
the mobile food service vehicle.
   OPERATOR. Any person owning, operating, or permitted to operate a food
truck.
(Ord. 2022-33, passed 4-20-22)
§ 120.02 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   It is a violation to operate a mobile food service vehicle at any
location except in compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Mobile food service vehicle operators must comply with all state and
local business and tax regulations.
(Ord. 2022-33, passed 4-20-22)
§ 120.03 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR OPERATION; APPLICATION.
   (A)   No mobile food service vehicle may operate within the village without
a mobile food service permit issued by the village. A mobile food service
permit authorizes the holder only to engage in the vending of products from a
mobile food service vehicle in compliance with Village Codified Ordinances and
as specified on the permit. The mobile food service permit must be prominently
displayed when the mobile food service vehicle is in operation.
   (B)   Application.
      (1)   A mobile food service vehicle operator shall apply for a mobile
food service permit at the Village Assistant Clerk-Treasurer's Office of the
Village of Mogadore by payment of a $50 application fee and the following:
         (a)   Name, address, and date of birth of the owner of the vehicle,
and a copy of the owner's valid vehicle operator's license or state ID;
         (b)   Name, address, and date of birth of the operator of the vehicle,
and a copy of the operator's valid vehicle operator's license;
         (c)   Three color photographs of the exterior (front, side, and back)
and interior food service portion of the vehicle in the final condition and
with all markings under which it will operate;
         (d)   A copy of the vehicle license and registration form reflecting
the vehicle identification number (VIN) of the mobile food service vehicle and
a photocopy of the vehicle title;
         (e)   A copy of the state or county health department license or
permit applicable to mobile food providers;
         (f)   A copy of the Fire Chief’s inspection report;
         (g)   A copy of the Operator’s Ohio business license; and
         (h)   A copy of insurance coverage in the amount of $250,000.
      (2)   Permittee has an on-going duty to provide the village with notice
of any change to any of the information required by the village to obtain a
mobile food service permit, including current photographs of the mobile food
service vehicle in the event of any change in the appearance of or signage on
the vehicle.
      (3)   This section does not apply to contractual arrangements between a
mobile food service vehicle operator and an individual, group, or the village
for catering at a specific location, for a period of not more than four hours,
and that is not open to or serving the public.
      (4)   All food truck rallies on public or private property require a
special event permit.
(Ord. 2022-33, passed 4-20-22)
§ 120.04 LOCATIONS AND HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   Food trucks.
      (1)   Rights-of-way. Food trucks may operate consistent with this section
from the right-of-way only at the locations designated by the Village Council,
Mayor's Office or their designee.
      (2)   Public property. Food trucks may operate on village property,
including village parks, only at the times and locations designated by the
village.
      (3)   Private property. Food trucks may operate on private property where
there is a commercial, office, educational or industrial use subject to the
following conditions:
         (a)   Permission. Food trucks selling to the public from private
property shall have written permission of the property owner, which shall be
made available to the village upon request.
         (b)   Unimproved properties. Regardless of an agreement with the owner
of the property, a food truck may not operate on an unimproved parcel unless
that parcel is paved, and has paved ingress and egress.
         (c)   Maximum number of food trucks. No more than two mobile food
trucks may operate at any location with coordinated advertising to the public
unless a special event permit has been obtained.
      (4)   Food trucks may operate during the time period of 6:00 a.m. until
midnight.
   (B)   Canteen trucks.
      (1)   Rights-of-way. Canteen trucks may operate from the right-of-way to
cater to on-site employees of a single location for a limited period of time
not greater than one and one-half hours.
      (2)   Private property. Canteen trucks may operate from the right-of-way
to cater to onsite employees of a clearly delineated single location for a
limited period of time not greater than three hours.
      (3)   Canteen trucks may operate during the time period of 6:00 a.m.
until midnight in approved areas.
   (C)   Ice cream trucks.
      (1)   Rights-of-way. An ice cream truck may not operate from the right-
of-way at any one location for more than 15 minutes without relocating to
another location not less than one-quarter mile from the previous location.
      (2)   Ice cream trucks may operate during the time period of 11:00 a.m.
until sunset.
(Ord. 2022-33, passed 4-20-22)
§ 120.05 OPERATING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Vehicle requirements.
      (1)   Design and construction. Mobile food service vehicles must be
specifically designed and constructed for the purpose of preparation and sale
of the specific type of food being sold and may not operate in any manner that
is not safe and is not compatible with the purpose for which the vehicle has
been designed and constructed.
      (2)   Licensing. Mobile food service vehicles must be licensed in
accordance with the rules and regulations of any local, state, and federal
agency having jurisdiction over motor vehicles and all products sold therein
must be properly licensed, permitted, and allowed by local, state, and federal
laws or regulations.
   (B)   Right-of-way.
      (1)   Mobile food service vehicles may not operate, stop, stand, or park
in any area of the right-of-way that is intended for use by vehicular travel or
that in any way impedes the use of the right-of-way or that present an unsafe
condition for patrons, pedestrians, or other vehicles.
      (2)   Food trucks may operate within the right-of-way only at times and
locations designated as food truck locations by the village and it is the duty
of all operators to obtain current knowledge of the right-of-way designations
prior to establishing operations in any area.
      (3)   Unless authorized in writing by the village, all mobile food
service vehicles are prohibited from operating in public alleys.
      (4)   Food trucks shall park in the same direction as traffic, with no
more than 18 inches between the curb face or edge of pavement and with the
service window of the unit facing the curb.
      (5)   A food truck may park in more than one parking space in the right-
of-way.
      (6)   Food trucks are prohibited from operating in angled parking spaces
in the public right-of-way.
   (C)   Business access. No mobile food service vehicle may operate in a
location that impedes the ingress to, egress from, or signage of another
business or otherwise causes undue interference with access to other businesses
or emergency areas, paths, or facilities.
   (D)   Pedestrians. A mobile food service vehicle may not reduce the clear
pedestrian path of travel on the sidewalk to less than six feet. This includes
all components of the Unit and any patron queue. All awnings or canopies of the
unit shall be at least six feet, eight inches above the sidewalk.
   (E)   Types of cooking apparatus. Open flame cooking (other than with a gas
range specifically constructed and designed within the food truck) either
within or outside a mobile food service vehicle is prohibited; except where
such activity is specifically permitted by the Fire Department. Canteen trucks
may have installed within the vehicle a heating apparatus that is used only for
serving heated pre-cooked foods provided such apparatus is permitted by state
and local regulations. Ice cream trucks can have no heating apparatus installed
within the vehicle for the purpose of food service.
   (F)   Noise. Amplified music or other sounds from any mobile food service
vehicles may not at any time unreasonably disturb nearby businesses,
pedestrians, or vehicles.
   (G)   Commissary. If the operator has a fixed, non-mobile establishment or
any other place that is used for the storage of supplies, the preparation of
food to be sold or served at or by a mobile food service vehicle, or the
cleaning and servicing of the mobile food service vehicle, such a commissary
location within the village cannot be located in any residential zoning
district, unless such commissary complies with all applicable zoning
regulations, building code requirements, and requirements of the Village of
Mogadore.
   (H)   Utilities. All mobile food service vehicles shall comply with the
version of the electrical code currently adopted by the Village and any power,
water, or sewage required for the mobile food service vehicle shall be self-
contained and shall not use utilities drawn from other sources.
   (I)   Fire extinguishers required. All mobile food service vehicles must be
equipped with a fire extinguisher that is certified annually by a licensed
company. Additionally, any mobile food service vehicle that produces grease
laden vapors (e.g., those units with deep fat fryers or flat top griddles) must
be equipped with appropriate fire extinguishers that are certified annually by
a licensed company.
   (J)   Support methods. No mobile food service vehicle may use stakes, rods,
or any method of support that must be drilled, driven, or otherwise fixed, into
or onto asphalt, pavement, curbs, sidewalks, or buildings.
   (K)   Pedestrian service only. Mobile food service vehicles operating in the
right-of-way shall serve pedestrians only; drive-up, drive-thru, or drive-in
service is prohibited.
   (L)   Spills. To prevent discharges into the storm drain system and river,
each unit shall comply with all storm water regulations of the village. In
addition, each unit shall have a spill response plan and kit on board to
contain and call Mogadore Fire Department to assist with the clean-up of spills
and to determine the need for a more extensive response.
      (1)   Spill plan. Food trucks must post, on the interior of the vehicle,
instructions for containing spills; at a minimum such plan should include 1)
description of and typical quantities of materials that may be spilled; 2)
procedures for containing potentially spilled materials including proper
disposal of spilled materials; 3) procedures for storage, use, handling and
transfer of materials to reduce potential for spilling; and 4) emergency
notification requirements.
      (2)   Spill kit. Food trucks must have a response kit on the vehicle
including 1) minimum five-gallon storage and clean-up container capacity with
lid; 2) minimum of ten absorbent pads and two absorbent socks or equivalent; 3)
disposable bag adequate to hold contents of spill kit and spilled materials;
and 4) one pair of disposable gloves.
   (M)   Waste collection. The area of a mobile food service vehicle operation
must be kept neat and orderly at all times. Operation of a mobile food service
vehicle in an area is deemed acceptance by the operator of the responsibility
for cleanliness of the reasonable area surrounding the operations (not less
than twenty feet from all parts of the vehicle) regardless of the occurrence or
source of any waste in the area. The operator must provide proper trash
receptacles for public use that are sufficient and suitable to contain all
trash generated by the mobile food service vehicle during the period of
operation at a location. All trash within the area of operations regardless of
the source must be removed and all garbage, trash, and trash receptacles must
be removed when full and prior to departure of a mobile food service vehicle
from a location.
   (N)   Signage. Mobile food service vehicles are limited to signs mounted to
the exterior of the mobile food establishment and one sandwich board sign with
dimensions no larger than six square feet. All signs mounted on the unit shall
be secured and mounted flat against the unit and shall not project more than
six inches from the exterior of the unit. Sandwich board signs shall not
obstruct or impede pedestrian or vehicular traffic. All signage must at all
times confirm to community standards of decency.
   (O)   Alcohol sales. Food trucks, canteen trucks, and ice cream trucks are
prohibited from selling alcoholic beverages.
   (P)   Insurance requirements. Mobile food service vehicles shall obtain, at
a minimum, any motor vehicle insurance required by any local, state, or federal
laws and regulations.
      (1)   Food trucks operating on village property other than the right-of-
way are required at all times to maintain insurance coverage in the form and
amounts required by the village. In the event the required coverage is not
properly maintained, the operator's mobile food service permit will be
immediately revoked. The failure of the operator to notify the village of any
change in coverage will preclude the operator from obtaining a permit for a
period of six months from the date the village learns of the failure to provide
the required notification of change.
      (2)   Canteen trucks and ice cream trucks shall not operate on village
property other than the right-of-way, except upon obtaining written permission
from the village, and may be required to obtain insurance consistent with the
type of operation permitted.
(Ord. 2022-33, passed 4-20-22)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST MORALS
      
134.   GAMBLING
      
135.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
      
136.   OFFENSES AGAINST JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
      
137.   WEAPONS CONTROL
      
138.   DRUG OFFENSES
      
139.   MISCELLANEOUS
   Editor's Note:
      For provisions regarding animals see Title IX,
Chapter 90
      For provisions regarding intoxicating liquors see Title XI,
Chapter 114
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Application of Title XIII
   
130.02   Definitions
   
130.03   Classification of offenses
   
130.04   Common law offenses abrogated
   
130.05   Rules of construction
   
130.06   Limitation of criminal prosecutions
   
130.07   Requirements for criminal liability; voluntary intoxication
   
130.08   Culpable mental states
   
130.09   Organizational criminal liability
   
130.10   Personal accountability for organizational conduct
   
130.11   Attempt
   
130.12   Complicity
   
130.13   Presumption of innocence; proof of offense; affirmative defense
   
130.14   Battered woman syndrome
   
130.15   Delinquency adjudications deemed convictions
   
130.16   Criminal law jurisdiction
   
130.17   Disposition of unclaimed or forfeited property held by Police
Department
   
130.18   Imposing sentence for misdemeanor
   
130.19   Multiple sentences
   
130.20   Apprehension, detention, or arrest of persons on bond
   
130.21   Self-defense: limitations on duty to retreat prior to using force
 
   
130.99   Penalty for Title XIII
Statutory reference:
   Mayor's Court generally, see R.C. Chapter 1905
   Municipal Court generally, see R.C. Chapter 1901
   Trials, Magistrate Courts, see R.C. Chapter 2938
§ 130.01 APPLICATION OF TITLE XIII.
   (A)   Title XIII of this code of ordinances embodies and prescribes
penalties for offenses, against the city, not classifiable in previous titles
and chapters. The word MISDEMEANORS as used in this title is not exhaustive,
and does not imply that offenses found elsewhere in this code of ordinances are
not also misdemeanors and punishable as such.
   (B)   Each act or omission for which a penalty of fine or imprisonment, or
both, is provided under this title or elsewhere in this code of ordinances is
declared a violation of ordinance and unlawful, and is made a misdemeanor, upon
conviction whereof, the penalty or penalties so provided shall be imposed by
the court.
§ 130.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTRABAND. Any property that is illegal for a person to acquire or possess
under a statute, ordinance, or rule, or that a trier of fact lawfully
determines to be illegal to possess by reason of the property’s involvement in
an offense. CONTRABAND includes, but is not limited to, all of the following:
      (1)   Any controlled substance, as defined in R.C. § 3719.01, or any
device or paraphernalia related thereto;
      (2)   Any unlawful gambling device or paraphernalia;
      (3)   Any dangerous ordnance or obscene material.
   DANGEROUS OFFENDER. A person who has committed an offense, whose history,
character and condition reveal a substantial risk that he or she will be a
danger to others, and whose conduct has been characterized by a pattern of
repetitive, compulsive or aggressive behavior with heedless indifference to the
consequences.
   DEADLY FORCE. Any force that carries a substantial risk that it will
proximately result in the death of any person.
   FORCE. Any violence, compulsion, or constraint physically exerted by any
means upon or against a person or thing.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any of the following:
      (1)   A sheriff, deputy sheriff, constable, police officer of a township
or joint police district, marshal, deputy marshal, municipal police officer,
member of a police force employed by a metropolitan housing authority under
R.C. § 3735.31(D) or state highway patrol trooper.
      (2)   An officer, agent, or employee of the state or any of its agencies,
instrumentalities, or political subdivisions, upon whom, by statute, a duty to
conserve the peace or to enforce all or certain
laws is imposed and the authority to arrest violators is conferred, within the
limits of such statutory duty and authority.
      (3)   The Mayor, in a capacity as chief conservator of the peace within
the municipality.
      (4)   A member of an auxiliary police force organized by the county,
township, or municipal law enforcement authorities, within the scope of the
member's appointment or commission.
      (5)   A person lawfully called pursuant to R.C. § 311.07 to aid a sheriff
in keeping the peace, for the purposes and during the time when the person is
called.
      (6)   A person appointed by a Mayor pursuant to R.C. § 737.10 as a
special patrolling officer during a riot or emergency, for the purposes and
during the time when the person is appointed.
      (7)   A member of the organized militia of this state or the armed forces
of the United States, lawfully called to duty to aid civil authorities in
keeping the peace or protect against domestic violence.
      (8)   A prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, secret
service officer, or municipal prosecutor.
      (9)   A veterans' home police officer appointed under R.C. § 5907.02.
      (10)   A member of a police force employed by a regional transit
authority under R.C. § 306.35(Y).
      (11)   A special police officer employed by a port authority under R.C. §
4582.04 or 4582.28.
      (12)   The House of Representatives Sergeant at Arms if the House of
Representatives Sergeant at Arms has arrest authority pursuant to R.C. §
101.311(E)(1) and an Assistant House of Representatives Sergeant at Arms.
      (13)   The Senate Sergeant at Arms and an Assistant Senate Sergeant at
Arms;
      (14)   A special police officer employed by a municipal corporation at a
municipal airport, or other municipal air navigation facility, that has
scheduled operations, as defined in 14 C.F.R. § 119.3, as amended, and that is
required to be under a security program and is governed by aviation security
rules of the Transportation Security Administration of the United States
Department of Transportation as provided in 49 C.F.R. parts 1542 and 1544, as
amended.
   NOT GUILTY BY REASON OF INSANITY. A person is NOT GUILTY BY REASON OF
INSANITY relative to a charge of an offense only if the person proves, in the
manner specified in R.C. § 2901.05, that at the time of the commission of the
offense, he or she did not know, as a result of a severe mental disease or
defect, the wrongfulness of his or her acts.
   OFFENSE OF VIOLENCE.
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.01, 2903.02, 2903.03, 2903.04, 2903.11,
2903.12, 2903.13, 2903.15, 2903.18, 2903.21, 2903.211, 2903.22, 2905.01,
2905.02, 2905.11, 2905.32, 2907.02, 2907.03, 2907.05, 2909.02, 2909.03,
2909.24, 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2917.01, 2917.02, 2917.03, 2917.31,
2917.321, 2919.25, 2921.03, 2921.04, 2921.34, or 2923.161, of division (A)(1)
of R.C. § 2903.34, of division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3) of R.C. § 2911.12, or
of division (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3) or (B)(4) of R.C. § 2919.22, or felonious
sexual penetration in violation of former R.C. § 2907.12;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States, substantially equivalent to
any section, division or offense listed in division (1) of this definition;
      (3)   An offense, other than a traffic offense, under an existing or
former municipal ordinance or law of this or any other state or of the United
States, committed purposely or knowingly, and involving physical harm to
persons or a risk of serious physical harm to persons;
      (4)   A conspiracy or attempt to commit, or complicity in committing, any
offense under division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition;
      (5)   A violation of division (C) of R.C. § 959.131.
   PERSON.
      (1)   (a)   Subject to division (2) of this definition, as used in any
section contained in Title XIII of this code that sets forth a criminal
offense, PERSON includes all of the following:
            1.   An individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership and association.
            2.   An unborn human who is viable.
         (b)   As used in any section contained in Title XIII of this code that
does not set forth a criminal offense, PERSON includes an individual,
corporation, business trust, estate, partnership and association.
         (c)   As used in division (1)(a)2. of this definition, “unborn human”
means an individual organism of the species Homo sapiens from fertilization
until live birth. “Viable” means the stage of development of a human fetus at
which there is a realistic probability of maintaining and nourishing of a life
outside the womb with or without temporary artificial life-sustaining support.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (1)(a) of this definition, in no case
shall the portion of the definition of the term PERSON that is set forth in
division (1)(a)2. of this definition be applied or construed in any section
contained in Title XIII of this code that sets forth a criminal offense in any
of the following manners:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (2)(a) of this
definition, in a manner so that the offense prohibits or is construed as
prohibiting any pregnant woman or her physician from performing an abortion
with the consent of the pregnant woman, with the consent of the pregnant woman
implied by law in a medical emergency, or with the approval of one otherwise
authorized by law to consent to medical treatment on behalf of the pregnant
woman. An abortion that violates the conditions described in the immediately
preceding sentence may be punished as a violation of R.C. § 2903.01, 2903.02,
2903.03, 2903.04, 2903.05, 2903.06, 2903.08, 2903.11, 2903.12, 2903.13,
2903.14, 2903.21 or 2903.22, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, as applicable. An abortion that does not violate the conditions
described in the second immediately preceding sentence but that does violate
R.C. § 2919.12, 2919.13(B), 2919.15, 2919.151, 2919.17 or 2919.18, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, may be punished as a violation of
such section, as applicable. Consent is sufficient under this division if it is
of the type otherwise adequate to permit medical treatment to the pregnant
woman, even if it does not comply with R.C. § 2919.12.
         (b)   In a manner so that the offense is applied or is construed as
applying to a woman based on an act or omission of the woman that occurs while
she is or was pregnant and that results in any of the following:
            1.   Her delivery of a stillborn baby.
            2.   Her causing, in any other manner, the death in utero of a
viable, unborn human that she is carrying.
            3.   Her causing the death of her child who is born alive but who
dies from one or more injuries that are sustained while the child is a viable,
unborn human.
            4.   Her causing her child who is born alive to sustain one or more
injuries while the child is a viable, unborn human.
            5.   Her causing, threatening to cause, or attempting to cause, in
any other manner, an injury, illness, or other psychological illness or
condition, regardless of its duration or gravity, to a viable, unborn human
that she is carrying.
   PHYSICAL HARM TO PERSONS. Any injury, illness, or other physiological
impairment, regardless of its gravity or duration.
   PHYSICAL HARM TO PROPERTY. Any tangible or intangible damage to property
that, in any degree, results in loss to its value or interferes with its use or
enjoyment. PHYSICAL HARM TO PROPERTY does not include wear and tear occasioned
by normal use.
   PRIVILEGE. An immunity, license, or right conferred by law, or bestowed by
express or implied grant, or arising out of status, position, office, or
relationship, or growing out of necessity.
   PROPERTY.
      (1)   Any property, real or personal, tangible or intangible, and any
interest or license in that property. PROPERTY includes, but is not limited to,
cable television service, other telecommunications service, telecommunications
devices, information service, computers, data, computer software, financial
instruments associated with computers, other documents associated with
computers, or copies of the documents, whether in machine or human-readable
form, trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights, patents, and property protected by
a trademark, copyright or patent. “Financial instruments associated with
computers” include, but are not limited to, checks, drafts, warrants, money
orders, notes of indebtedness, certificates of deposit, letters of credit,
bills of credit or debit cards, financial transaction authorization mechanisms,
marketable securities, or any computer system representations of any of them.
      (2)   As used in this definition, “trade secret” has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 1333.61, and “telecommunications service” and “information service”
have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      (3)   As used in this definition and in the definition of “contraband” in
this section, “cable television service,” “computer,” “computer network,”
“computer software,” “computer system,” “data,” and “telecommunications device”
have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   REPEAT OFFENDER. A person who has a history of persistent criminal activity
and whose character and condition reveal a substantial risk that he or she will
commit another offense. It is prima facie evidence that a person is a repeat
offender if any of the following applies:
      (1)   Having been convicted of one or more offenses of violence, as
defined in R.C. § 2901.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent offense of
violence;
      (2)   Having been convicted of one or more sexually oriented offenses, as
defined in R.C. § 2950.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent sexually oriented
offense;
      (3)   Having been convicted of one or more theft offenses, as defined in
R.C. § 2913.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for one or more
of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent theft offense;
      (4)   Having been convicted of one or more felony drug abuse offenses, as
defined in R.C. § 2925.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent felony drug abuse
offense;
      (5)   Having been convicted of two or more felonies, and having been
imprisoned pursuant to sentence for any such offense, he or she commits a
subsequent offense;
      (6)   Having been convicted of three or more offenses of any type or
degree other than traffic offenses, alcoholic intoxication offenses, or minor
misdemeanors, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for any such
offense, he or she commits a subsequent offense.
   RISK. A significant possibility, as contrasted with a remote possibility,
that a certain result may occur or that certain circumstances may exist.
   SCHOOL, SCHOOL BUILDING, and SCHOOL PREMISES. Have the same meanings as in
R.C. § 2925.01.
   SCHOOL ACTIVITY. Any activity held under the auspices of a board of
education of a city, local, exempted village, joint vocational, or cooperative
education school district; a governing authority of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314; a governing board of an educational
service center; or the governing body of a nonpublic school for which the
Director of Education and Workforce prescribes minimum standards under R.C. §
3301.07.
   SCHOOL BUS. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   SCHOOL SAFETY ZONE. Consists of a school, school building, school premises,
school activity, and school bus.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO PERSONS. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any mental illness or condition of such gravity as would normally
require hospitalization or prolonged psychiatric treatment;
      (2)   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death;
      (3)   Any physical harm that involves some permanent incapacity, whether
partial or total, or that involves some temporary, substantial incapacity;
      (4)   Any physical harm that involves some permanent disfigurement, or
that involves some temporary, serious disfigurement;
      (5)   Any physical harm that involves acute pain of such duration as to
result in substantial suffering, or that involves any degree of prolonged or
intractable pain.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO PROPERTY. Any physical harm to property that does
either of the following:
      (1)   Results in substantial loss to the value of the property, or
requires a substantial amount of time, effort, or money to repair or replace;
      (2)   Temporarily prevents the use or enjoyment of the property, or
substantially interferes with its use or enjoyment for an extended period of
time.
   SUBSTANTIAL RISK. A strong possibility, as contrasted with a remote or
significant possibility, that a certain result may occur or that certain
circumstances may exist.
(R.C. §§ 2901.01, 2935.36(E))
§ 130.03 CLASSIFICATION OF OFFENSES.
   As used in this title:
   (A)   Offenses include misdemeanors of the first, second, third, and fourth
degree, minor misdemeanors, and offenses not specifically classified.
   (B)   Regardless of the penalty that may be imposed, any offense
specifically classified as a misdemeanor is a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Any offense not specifically classified is a misdemeanor if
imprisonment for not more than one year may be imposed as a penalty.
   (D)   Any offense not specifically classified is a minor misdemeanor if the
only penalty that may be imposed is one of the following:
      (1)   For an offense committed prior to January 1, 2004, a fine not
exceeding $100;
      (2)   For an offense committed on or after January 1, 2004, a fine not
exceeding $150, community service under R.C. § 2929.27(D), or a financial
sanction other than a fine under R.C. § 2929.28.
(R.C. § 2901.02)
§ 130.04 COMMON LAW OFFENSES ABROGATED.
   (A)   No conduct constitutes a criminal offense against the village unless
it is defined as an offense in this code.
   (B)   An offense is defined when one or more sections of this code state a
positive prohibition or enjoin a specific duty, and provide a penalty for
violation of such prohibition or failure to meet such duty.
   (C)   This section does not affect the power of a court to punish for
contempt or to employ any sanction authorized by law to enforce an order, civil
judgment or decree.
(R.C. § 2901.03)
§ 130.05 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C) or (D) of this section,
sections of this code defining offenses or penalties shall be strictly
construed against the municipality and liberally construed in favor of the
accused.
   (B)   Rules of criminal procedure and sections of this code providing for
criminal procedure shall be construed so as to effect the fair, impartial,
speedy, and sure administration of justice.
   (C)   Any provision of a section of this code that refers to a previous
conviction of or plea of guilty to a violation of a section of this code, the
Revised Code or a division of a section of this code or the Revised Code shall
be construed to also refer to a previous conviction of or plea of guilty to a
substantially equivalent offense under an existing or former law of this
municipality, state, another state, or the United States or under an existing
or former municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Any provision of this Code that refers to a section, or to a division
of a section, of this Code that defines or specifies a criminal offense shall
be construed to also refer to an existing or former law of this state, another
state, or the United States, to an existing or former municipal ordinance, or
to an existing or former division of any such existing or former law or
ordinance that defines or specifies, or that defined or specified, a
substantially equivalent offense.
(R.C. § 2901.04)
§ 130.06 LIMITATION OF CRIMINAL PROSECUTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), (A)(5),
or (A)(6) of this section or as otherwise provided in this section, a
prosecution shall be barred unless it is commenced within the following periods
after an offense is committed:
         (a)   For a felony, six years;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor other than a minor misdemeanor, two years;
         (c)   For a minor misdemeanor, six months.
      (2)   There is no period of limitation for the prosecution of a violation
of R.C. § 2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02 or for the prosecution of a conspiracy to
commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in committing a violation of R.C. §
2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (B) through (J) of this
section, a prosecution of any of the following offenses shall be barred unless
it is commenced within 20 years after the offense is committed:
         (a)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.03, 2903.04, 2905.01, 2905.32,
2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.21, 2909.02, 2909.22, 2909.23, 2909.24, 2909.26,
2909.27, 2909.28, 2909.29, 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2911.12, or 2917.02, a
violation of R.C. § 2903.11 or 2903.12 if the victim is a peace officer, a
violation of R.C. § 2903.13 that is a felony, or a violation of former R.C. §
2907.12.
         (b)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing a violation set forth in division (A)(3)(a) of this section.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (D) to (L) of this
section, a prosecution of a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 or a
conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in committing a
violation of either section shall be barred unless it is commenced within 25
years after the offense is committed.
      (5)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (A)(5)(b) and (E)
to (I) of this section, a prosecution of a violation of R.C. § 2907.13 shall be
barred unless it is commenced within five years after the offense is committed.
         (b)   Prosecution that would otherwise be barred under division (A)(5)
(a) of this section may be commenced within five years after the date of the
discovery of the offense by either an aggrieved person or the aggrieved
person's legal representative who is not a party to the offense.
         (c)   As used in division (A)(5)(b) of this section, "aggrieved
person" includes any of the following individuals with regard to a violation of
R.C. § 2907.13:
            1.   A patient who was the victim of the violation;
            2.   The spouse or surviving spouse of a patient who was the victim
of the violation;
            3.   Any child born as a result of the violation.
      (6)   A prosecution for a violation of R.C. § 2151.421(A)(1) or (A)(4),
which is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, or a misdemeanor of the first
degree under circumstances specified in R.C. § 2151.99, is barred unless it is
commenced within four years after the violation is committed.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2) of this section,
if the period of limitation provided in division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of this
section has expired, prosecution shall be commenced for an offense of which an
element is fraud or breach of fiduciary duty within one year after discovery of
the offense either by an aggrieved person or by the aggrieved person's legal
representative who is not a party to the offense.
      (2)   If the period of limitation provided in division (A)(1) or (A)(3)
of this section has expired, prosecution for a violation of R.C. § 2913.49
shall be commenced within five years after discovery of the offense either by
an aggrieved person or the aggrieved person’s legal representative who is not a
party to the offense.
   (C)   (1)   If the period of limitation provided in division (A)(1) or (A)
(3) of this section has expired, prosecution shall be commenced for the
following offenses during the following specified periods of time:
         (a)   For an offense involving misconduct in office by a public
servant, as defined in R.C. § 2921.01, at any time while the accused remains a
public servant, or within two years thereafter;
         (b)   For an offense by a person who is not a public servant but whose
offense is directly related to the misconduct in office of a public servant, at
any time while that public servant remains a public servant, or within two
years thereafter.
      (2)   As used in this division:
         (a)   The phrase OFFENSE IS DIRECTLY RELATED TO THE MISCONDUCT IN
OFFICE OF A PUBLIC SERVANT includes, but is not limited to, a violation of R.C.
§ 101.71, 101.91, 121.61 or 2921.13, 102.03(F) or (H), 2921.02(A), 2921.43(A)
or (B), or 3517.13(F) or (G), that is directly related to an offense involving
misconduct in office of a public servant, or a violation of any municipal
ordinance substantially equivalent to those Ohio Revised Code sections listed
in this division (C)(2)(a).
         (b)   PUBLIC SERVANT has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.01.
   (D)   (1)   If a DNA record made in connection with the criminal
investigation of the commission of a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 is
determined to match another DNA record that is of an identifiable person and if
the time of the determination is later than 25 years after the offense is
committed, prosecution of that person for a violation of the section may be
commenced within five years after the determination is complete.
      (2)   If a DNA record made in connection with the criminal investigation
of the commission of a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 is determined to
match another DNA record that is of an identifiable person and if the time of
the determination is within 25 years after the offense is committed,
prosecution of that person for a violation of the section may be commenced
within the longer of 25 years after the offense is committed or five years
after the determination is complete.
      (3)   As used in this division, DNA RECORD has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 109.573.
   (E)   An offense is committed when every element of the offense occurs. In
the case of an offense of which an element is a continuing course of conduct,
the period of limitation does not begin to run until such course of conduct or
the accused's accountability for it terminates, whichever occurs first.
   (F)   A prosecution is commenced on the date an indictment is returned or an
information filed, or on the date a lawful arrest without a warrant is made, or
on the date a warrant, summons, citation, or other process is issued, whichever
occurs first. A prosecution is not commenced by the return of an indictment or
the filing of an information unless reasonable diligence is exercised to issue
and execute process on the same. A prosecution is not commenced upon issuance
of a warrant, summons, citation, or other process unless reasonable diligence
is exercised to execute the same.
   (G)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time when the corpus
delicti remains undiscovered.
   (H)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time when the
accused purposely avoids prosecution. Proof that the accused departed this
municipality or conceals the accused's identity or whereabouts is prima facie
evidence of the accused's purpose to avoid prosecution.
   (I)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time a prosecution
against the accused based on the same conduct is pending in this state, even
though the indictment, information, or process that commenced the prosecution
is quashed or the proceedings on the indictment, information, or process are
set aside or reversed on appeal.
   (J)   The period of limitation for a violation of this Title or Title XXIX
of the Ohio Revised Code that involves a physical or mental wound, injury,
disability, or condition of a nature that reasonably indicates abuse or neglect
of a child under 18 years of age or of a child with a developmental disability
or physical impairment under 21 years of age shall not begin to run until
either of the following occurs:
      (1)   The victim of the offense reaches the age of majority.
      (2)   A public children services agency, or a municipal or county peace
officer that is not the parent or guardian of the child, in the county in which
the child resides or in which the abuse or neglect is occurring or has occurred
has been notified that abuse or neglect is known, suspected, or believed to
have occurred.
   (K)   As used in this section, PEACE OFFICER has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2935.01.
   (L)   (1)   The amendments to divisions (A) and (D) of this section that
took effect on July 16, 2015, apply to a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03
committed on and after July 16, 2015, and apply to a violation of either of
those sections committed prior to July 16, 2015, if prosecution for that
violation was not barred under this section as it existed on July 16, 2015.
      (2)   The amendment to division (A)(2) of this section that took effect
on April 4, 2023, applies to a conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or
complicity in committing a violation of R.C. § 2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02 if the
conspiracy, attempt, or complicity is committed on or after April 4, 2023, and
applies to a conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing a violation of either of those sections if the conspiracy, attempt,
or complicity was committed prior to April 4, 2023, and prosecution for that
conspiracy, attempt, or complicity was not barred under this section as it
existed on the day prior to April 4, 2023.
(R.C. § 2901.13)
Statutory reference:
   Limitation for income tax violations, see R.C. § 718.12
§ 130.07 REQUIREMENTS FOR CRIMINAL LIABILITY; VOLUNTARY INTOXICATION.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, a person is not
guilty of an offense unless both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person’s liability is based on conduct that includes either a
voluntary act, or an omission to perform an act or duty that the person is
capable of performing;
      (2)   The person has the requisite degree of culpability for each element
as to which a culpable mental state is specified by the language defining the
offense.
   (B)   When the language defining an offense does not specify any degree of
culpability, and plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict criminal
liability for the conduct described in the section, then culpability is not
required for a person to be guilty of the offense. The fact that one division
of a section plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict liability for an
offense defined in that division does not by itself plainly indicate a purpose
to impose strict criminal liability for an offense defined in other divisions
of the section that do not specify a degree of culpability.
   (C)   (1)   When language defining an element of an offense that is related
to knowledge or intent or to which mens rea could fairly be applied neither
specifies culpability nor plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict
liability, the element of the offense is established only if a person acts
recklessly.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to offenses defined
in R.C. Title XLV.
      (3)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not relieve the prosecution of
the burden of proving the culpable mental state required by any definition
incorporated into the offense.
   (D)   Voluntary intoxication may not be taken into consideration in
determining the existence of a mental state that is an element of a criminal
offense. Voluntary intoxication does not relieve a person of a duty to act if
failure to act constitutes a criminal offense. Evidence that a person was
voluntarily intoxicated may be admissible to show whether or not the person was
physically capable of performing the act with which the person is charged.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      CULPABILITY. Purpose, knowledge, recklessness, or negligence, as defined
in R.C. § 2901.22.
      INTOXICATION. Includes but is not limited to intoxication resulting from
the ingestion of alcohol, a drug, or alcohol and a drug.
      INVOLUNTARY ACTS. Reflexes, convulsions, body movements during
unconsciousness or sleep, and body movements that are not otherwise a product
of the actor's volition are involuntary acts.
      POSSESSION. A voluntary act if the possessor knowingly procured or
received the thing possessed, or was aware of the possessor’s control of the
thing possessed for a sufficient time to have ended possession.
(R.C. § 2901.21)
§ 130.08 CULPABLE MENTAL STATES.
   (A)   A person acts purposely when it is the person’s specific intention to
cause a certain result, or, when the gist of the offense is a prohibition
against conduct of a certain nature, regardless of what the offender intends to
accomplish thereby, it is the offender’s specific intention to engage in
conduct of that nature.
   (B)   A person acts knowingly, regardless of purpose, when the person is
aware that the person’s conduct will probably cause a certain result or will
probably be of a certain nature. A person has knowledge of circumstances when
the person is aware that such circumstances probably exist. When knowledge of
the existence of a particular fact is an element of an offense, such knowledge
is established if a person subjectively believes that there is a high
probability of its existence and fails to make inquiry or acts with a conscious
purpose to avoid learning the fact.
   (C)   A person acts recklessly when, with heedless indifference to the
consequences, the person disregards a substantial and unjustifiable risk that
the person’s conduct is likely to cause a certain result or is likely to be of
a certain nature. A person is reckless with respect to circumstances when, with
heedless indifference to the consequences, the person disregards a substantial
and unjustifiable risk that such circumstances are likely to exist.
   (D)   A person acts negligently when, because of a substantial lapse from
due care, the person fails to perceive or avoid a risk that the person’s
conduct may cause a certain result or may be of a certain nature. A person is
negligent with respect to circumstances when, because of a substantial lapse
from due care, the person fails to perceive or avoid a risk that such
circumstances may exist.
   (E)   When the section defining an offense provides that negligence suffices
to establish an element thereof, then recklessness, knowledge, or purpose is
also sufficient culpability for such element. When recklessness suffices to
establish an element of an offense, then knowledge or purpose is also
sufficient culpability for such element. When knowledge suffices to establish
an element of an offense, then purpose is also sufficient culpability for such
element.
(R.C. § 2901.22)
§ 130.09 ORGANIZATIONAL CRIMINAL LIABILITY.
   (A)   An organization may be convicted of an offense under any of the
following circumstances:
      (1)   The offense is a minor misdemeanor committed by an officer, agent,
or employee of the organization acting in its behalf and within the scope of
the officer's, agent's or employee's office or employment, except that if the
section defining the offense designates the officers, agents, or employees for
whose conduct the organization is accountable or the circumstances under which
it is accountable, those provisions shall apply.
      (2)   A purpose to impose organizational liability plainly appears in the
section defining the offense, and the offense is committed by an officer,
agent, or employee of the organization acting in its behalf and within the
scope of the officer's, agent's or employee's office or employment, except that
if the section defining the offense designates the officers, agents, or
employees for whose conduct the organization is accountable or the
circumstances under which it is accountable, those provisions shall apply.
      (3)   The offense consists of an omission to discharge a specific duty
imposed by law on the organization.
      (4)   If, acting with the kind of culpability otherwise required for the
commission of the offense, its commission was authorized, requested, commanded,
tolerated, or performed by the board of directors, trustees, partners, or by a
high managerial officer, agent, or employee acting in behalf of the
organization and within the scope of such a board's or person's office or
employment.
   (B)   If strict liability is imposed for the commission of an offense, a
purpose to impose organizational liability shall be presumed, unless the
contrary plainly appears.
   (C)   In a prosecution of an organization for an offense other than one for
which strict liability is imposed, it is a defense that the high managerial
officer, agent, or employee having supervisory responsibility over the subject
matter of the offense exercised due diligence to prevent its commission. This
defense is not available if it plainly appears inconsistent with the purpose of
the section defining the offense.
   (D)   As used in this section, ORGANIZATION means a corporation for profit
or not for profit, partnership, limited partnership, joint venture,
unincorporated nonprofit association, estate, trust, or other commercial or
legal entity. ORGANIZATION does not include an entity organized as or by a
governmental agency for the execution of a governmental program.
(R.C. § 2901.23)
§ 130.10 PERSONAL ACCOUNTABILITY FOR ORGANIZATIONAL CONDUCT.
   (A)   An officer, agent, or employee of an organization, as defined in R.C.
§ 2901.23, may be prosecuted for an offense committed by such organization, if
he or she acts with the kind of culpability required for the commission of the
offense, and any of the following apply:
      (1)   In the name of the organization or in its behalf, he or she engages
in conduct constituting the offense, or causes another to engage in such
conduct, or tolerates such conduct when it is of a type for which he or she has
direct responsibility;
      (2)   He or she has primary responsibility to discharge a duty imposed on
the organization by law, and such duty is not discharged.
   (B)   When a person is convicted of an offense by reason of this section, he
or she is subject to the same penalty as if he or she had acted in his or her
own behalf.
(R.C. § 2901.24)
§ 130.11 ATTEMPT.
   (A)   No person, purposely or knowingly, and when purpose or knowledge is
sufficient culpability for the commission of an offense, shall engage in
conduct that, if successful, would constitute or result in the offense.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that, in retrospect,
commission of the offense that was the object of the attempt was either
factually or legally impossible under the attendant circumstances, if that
offense could have been committed had the attendant circumstances been as the
actor believed them to be.
   (C)   No person who is convicted of committing a specific offense, of
complicity in the commission of an offense, or of conspiracy to commit an
offense, shall be convicted of an attempt to commit the same offense in
violation of this section.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that the
actor abandoned his or her effort to commit the offense or otherwise prevented
its commission, under circumstances manifesting a complete and voluntary
renunciation of his or her criminal purpose.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of an attempt to commit an
offense. An attempt to commit aggravated murder, murder, or an offense for
which the maximum penalty is imprisonment for life is a felony of the first
degree, to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. An attempt to commit a
drug abuse offense for which the penalty is determined by the amount or number
of unit doses of the controlled substance involved in the drug abuse offense is
an offense of the same degree as the drug abuse offense attempted would be if
that drug abuse offense had been committed and had involved an amount or number
of unit doses of the controlled substance that is within the next lower range
of controlled substance amounts than was involved in the attempt. An attempt to
commit any other offense is an offense of the next lesser degree than the
offense attempted. In the case of an attempt to commit an offense other than a
violation of R.C. Chapter 3734 that is not specifically classified, an attempt
is a misdemeanor of the first degree if the offense attempted is a felony, and
a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if the offense attempted is a misdemeanor.
In the case of an attempt to commit a violation of any provision of R.C.
Chapter 3734, other than R.C. § 3734.18, that relates to hazardous wastes, an
attempt is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. An attempt to
commit a minor misdemeanor, or to engage in conspiracy, is not an offense under
this section.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
      MOTOR VEHICLE has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
(R.C. § 2923.02)
Statutory reference:
   Conspiracy, see R.C. § 2923.01
   Solid and hazardous wastes, see R.C. Chapter 3734
§ 130.12 COMPLICITY.
   (A)   No person, acting with the kind of culpability required for the
commission of an offense, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Solicit or procure another to commit the offense;
      (2)   Aid or abet another in committing the offense;
      (3)   Conspire with another to commit the offense in violation of R.C. §
2923.01;
      (4)   Cause an innocent or irresponsible person to commit the offense.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that no person with
whom the accused was in complicity has been convicted as a principal offender.
   (C)   No person shall be convicted of complicity under this section unless
an offense is actually committed, but a person may be convicted of complicity
in an attempt to commit an offense in violation of R.C. § 2923.02 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   If an alleged accomplice of the defendant testifies against the
defendant in a case in which the defendant is charged with complicity in the
commission of or an attempt to commit an offense, an attempt to commit an
offense, or an offense, the court shall charge the jury in accordance with R.C.
§ 2923.03(D).
   (E)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that,
prior to the commission of or attempt to commit the offense, the actor
terminated his or her complicity, under circumstances manifesting a complete
and voluntary renunciation of his or her criminal purpose.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of complicity in the
commission of an offense, and shall be prosecuted and punished as if he or she
were a principal offender. A charge of complicity may be stated in terms of
this section, or in terms of the principal offense.
(R.C. § 2923.03)
Statutory reference:
   Conspiracy, see R.C. § 2923.01
§ 130.13 PRESUMPTION OF INNOCENCE; PROOF OF OFFENSE; AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE.
   (A)   Every person accused of an offense is presumed innocent until proven
guilty beyond a reasonable doubt, and the burden of proof for all elements of
the offense is upon the prosecution. The burden of going forward with the
evidence of an affirmative defense, and the burden of proof by a preponderance
of the evidence, for an affirmative defense other than self-defense, defense of
another, or defense of the accused’s residence presented as described in
division (B)(1) of this section, is upon the accused.
   (B)   (1)   A person is allowed to act in self-defense, defense of another,
or defense of that person’s residence. If, at the trial of a person who is
accused of an offense that involved the person’s use of force against another,
there is evidence presented that tends to support that the accused person used
the force in self-defense, defense of another, or defense of that person’s
residence, the prosecution must prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the
accused person did not use the force in self-defense, defense of another, or
defense of that person’s residence, as the case may be.
      (2)   Subject to division (B)(3) of this section, a person is presumed to
have acted in self-defense or defense of another when using defensive force
that is intended or likely to cause death or great bodily harm to another if
the person against whom the defensive force is used is in the process of
unlawfully and without privilege to do so entering, or has unlawfully and
without privilege to do so entered, the residence or vehicle occupied by the
person using the defensive force.
      (3)   The presumption set forth in division (B)(2) of this section does
not apply if either of the following is true:
         (a)   The person against whom the defensive force is used has a right
to be in, or is a lawful resident of, the residence or vehicle.
         (b)   The person who uses the defensive force uses it while in a
residence or vehicle and the person is unlawfully, and without privilege to be,
in that residence or vehicle.
      (4)   The presumption set forth in division (B)(2) of this section is a
rebuttable presumption and may be rebutted by a preponderance of the evidence,
provided that the prosecution’s burden of proof remains proof beyond a
reasonable doubt as described in divisions (A) and (B)(1) of this section.
   (C)   As part of its charge to the jury in a criminal case, the court shall
read the definitions of “reasonable doubt” and “proof beyond a reasonable
doubt”, contained in division (E) of this section.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE. An affirmative defense is either of the following:
         (a)   A defense expressly designated as affirmative;
         (b)   A defense involving an excuse or justification peculiarly within
the knowledge of the accused, on which the accused can fairly be required to
adduce supporting evidence.
      DWELLING. Means a building or conveyance of any kind that has a roof over
it and that is designed to be occupied by people lodging in the building or
conveyance at night, regardless of whether the building or conveyance is
temporary or permanent or is mobile or immobile. As used in this division, a
building or conveyance includes but is not limited to an attached porch, and a
building or conveyance with a roof over it includes but is not limited to a
tent.
      RESIDENCE. Means a dwelling in which a person resides either temporarily
or permanently or is visiting as a guest.
      VEHICLE. Means a conveyance of any kind, whether or not motorized, that
is designed to transport people or property.
   (E)   “Reasonable doubt” is present when the jurors, after they have
carefully considered and compared all the evidence, cannot say they are firmly
convinced of the truth of the charge. It is a doubt based on reasonable and
common sense. Reasonable doubt is not mere possible doubt, because everything
relating to human affairs or depending on moral evidence is open to some
possible or imaginary doubt. “Proof beyond a reasonable doubt” is proof of such
character that an ordinary person would be willing to rely and act upon it in
the most important of the person's own affairs.
(R.C. § 2901.05)
§ 130.14 BATTERED WOMAN SYNDROME.
   (A)   The municipality hereby declares that it recognizes both of the
following, in relation to the “battered woman syndrome”: that the syndrome
currently is a matter of commonly accepted scientific knowledge, and that the
subject matter and details of the syndrome are not within the general
understanding or experience of a person who is a member of the general populace
and are not within the field of common knowledge.
   (B)   If a person is charged with an offense involving the use of force
against another and the person, as a defense to the offense charged, raises the
affirmative defense of self-defense, the person may introduce expert testimony
of the “battered woman syndrome” and expert testimony that the person suffered
from that syndrome as evidence to establish the requisite belief of an imminent
danger of death or great bodily harm that is necessary, as an element of the
affirmative defense, to justify the person's use of force in question. The
introduction of any expert testimony under this division shall be in accordance
with the Ohio Rules of Evidence.
(R.C. § 2901.06)
§ 130.15 DELINQUENCY ADJUDICATIONS DEEMED CONVICTIONS.
   (A)   If a person is alleged to have committed an offense and if the person
previously has been adjudicated a delinquent child or juvenile traffic offender
for a violation of a law or ordinance, except as provided in division (B) of
this section, the adjudication as a delinquent child or as a juvenile traffic
offender is a conviction for a violation of the law for purposes of determining
the offense with which the person should be charged and, if the person is
convicted of or pleads guilty to an offense, the sentence to be imposed upon
the person relative to the conviction or guilty plea.
   (B)   A previous adjudication of a person as a delinquent child or juvenile
traffic offender for a violation of a law or ordinance is not a conviction for
a violation of the law or ordinance for purposes of determining any of the
following:
      (1)   Whether the person is a repeat violent offender, as defined in R.C.
§ 2929.01, or whether the person should be sentenced as a repeat violent
offender under R.C. § 2929.14(B)(2) and R.C. § 2941.149;
      (2)    Whether the person is a violent career criminal as defined in R.C.
§ 2923.132, whether the person has committed unlawful use of a weapon by a
violent career criminal in violation of R.C. § 2923.132 or should be sentenced
for that offense under that section, or whether the person should be sentenced
under R.C. § 2929.14(K) as a violent career criminal who had a firearm on or
about the person’s person or under the person’s control while committing a
violent felony offense and displayed or brandished the firearm, indicated that
the offender possessed a firearm, or used the firearm to facilitate the
offense.
(R.C. § 2901.08)
§ 130.16 CRIMINAL LAW JURISDICTION.
   (A)   A person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in this
municipality if any of the following occur:
      (1)   The person commits an offense under the laws of this municipality,
any element of which takes place in this municipality;
      (2)   While in this municipality, the person attempts to commit, or is
guilty of complicity in the commission of, an offense in another jurisdiction,
which offense is an offense under both the laws of this municipality and the
other jurisdiction, or, while in this municipality, the person conspires to
commit an offense in another jurisdiction, which offense is an offense under
both the laws of this municipality and the other jurisdiction, and a
substantial overt act in furtherance of the conspiracy is undertaken in this
municipality by the person or another person involved in the conspiracy,
subsequent to the person’s entrance into the conspiracy. In any case in which a
person attempts to commit, is guilty of complicity in the commission of, or
conspires to commit an offense in another jurisdiction as described in this
division, the person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in this
municipality for the attempt, complicity, or conspiracy, and for any resulting
offense that is committed or completed in the other jurisdiction;
      (3)   While out of this municipality, the person conspires or attempts to
commit, or is guilty of complicity in the commission of, an offense in this
municipality;
      (4)   While out of this municipality, the person omits to perform a legal
duty imposed by the laws of this municipality, which omission affects a
legitimate interest of the municipality in protecting, governing or regulating
any person, property, thing, transaction, or activity in this municipality;
      (5)   While out of this municipality, the person unlawfully takes or
retains property and subsequently brings any of the unlawfully taken or
retained property into this municipality;
      (6)   While out of this municipality, the person unlawfully takes or
entices another person and subsequently brings the other person into this
municipality;
      (7)   The person, by means of a computer, computer system, computer
network, telecommunication, telecommunications device, telecommunications
service, or information service, causes or knowingly permits any writing, data,
image or other telecommunication to be disseminated or transmitted into this
municipality in violation of the law of this state or municipality.
   (B)   In homicide, the element referred to in division (A)(1) of this
section includes the act that causes death, the physical contact that causes
death, the death itself, or any other element that is set forth in the offense
in question. If any part of the body of a homicide victim is found in this
municipality, the death is presumed to have occurred within this municipality.
   (C)   (1)   This municipality includes the land and water within its
boundaries and the air space above that land and water, with respect to which
this municipality has either exclusive or concurrent legislative jurisdiction.
Where the boundary between this municipality and another jurisdiction is
disputed, the disputed territory is conclusively presumed to be within this
municipality for purposes of this section.
      (2)   The courts of common pleas of Adams, Athens, Belmont, Brown,
Clermont, Columbiana, Gallia, Hamilton, Jefferson, Lawrence, Meigs, Monroe,
Scioto, and Washington counties have jurisdiction beyond the north or northwest
shore of the Ohio river extending to the opposite shore line, between the
extended boundary lines of any adjacent counties or adjacent state. Each of
those courts of common pleas has concurrent jurisdiction on the Ohio river with
any adjacent court of common pleas that borders on that river and with any
court of Kentucky or of West Virginia that borders on the Ohio river and that
has jurisdiction on the Ohio river under the law of Kentucky or the law of West
Virginia, whichever is applicable, or under federal law.
   (D)   When an offense is committed under the laws of this municipality, and
it appears beyond a reasonable doubt that the offense or any element of the
offense took place either in this municipality or in another jurisdiction or
jurisdictions, but it cannot reasonably be determined in which it took place,
the offense or element is conclusively presumed to have taken place in this
municipality for purposes of this section.
   (E)   When a person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in
this municipality for an offense committed or completed outside this
municipality, the person is subject to all specifications for that offense that
would be applicable if the offense had been committed within this municipality.
   (F)   Any act, conduct, or element that is a basis of a person being subject
under this section to criminal prosecution and punishment in this municipality
need not be committed personally by the person as long as it is committed by
another person who is in complicity or conspiracy with the person.
   (G)   This section shall be liberally construed, consistent with
constitutional limitations, to allow this municipality the broadest possible
jurisdiction over offenses and persons committing offenses in, or affecting,
this municipality.
   (H)   For purposes of division (A)(2) of this section, an overt act is
substantial when it is of a character that manifests a purpose on the part of
the actor that the object of the conspiracy should be completed.
   (I)   As used in this section, COMPUTER, COMPUTER SYSTEM, COMPUTER NETWORK,
INFORMATION SERVICE, TELECOMMUNICATION, TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE,
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE, DATA and WRITING have the same meanings as in R.C.
§ 2913.01.
(R.C. § 2901.11)
Statutory reference:
   State criminal law jurisdiction, see R.C. § 2901.11
§ 130.17 DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED OR FORFEITED PROPERTY HELD BY POLICE
DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Safekeeping of property in custody.
      (1)   (a)   Any property that has been lost, abandoned, stolen, seized
pursuant to a search warrant, or otherwise lawfully seized or forfeited and
that is in the custody of the Police Department shall be kept safely by the
Police Department, pending the time it no longer is needed as evidence or for
another lawful purpose, and shall be disposed of pursuant to this section or
R.C. §§ 2981.12 and 2981.13.
         (b)   This section does not apply to the custody and disposal of any
of the following:
            1.   Vehicles subject to forfeiture under R.C. Title 45, except as
provided in division (B)(1)(f) of this section;
            2.   Abandoned junk motor vehicles or other property of negligible
value;
            3.   Property held by a department of rehabilitation and correction
institution that is unclaimed, that does not have an identified owner, that the
owner agrees to dispose of, or that is identified by the department as having
little value;
            4.   Animals taken, and devices used in unlawfully taking animals,
under R.C. § 1531.20;
            5.   Controlled substances sold by a peace officer in the
performance of the officer’s official duties under R.C. § 3719.141;
            6.   Property recovered by a township law enforcement agency under
R.C. §§ 505.105 to 505.109;
            7.   Property held and disposed of under an ordinance of the
municipality or under R.C. §§ 737.29 to 737.33, except that if the municipality
has received notice of a citizens’ reward program as provided in division (B)
(5) of this section and disposes of property under an ordinance shall pay 25%
of any moneys acquired from any sale or auction to the citizens’ reward
program.
      (2)   (a)   The Police Department shall adopt and comply with a written
internal control policy that does all of the following:
            1.   Provides for keeping detailed records as to the amount of
property acquired by the Police Department and the date property was acquired;
            2.   Provides for keeping detailed records of the disposition of
the property, which shall include, but not be limited to, both of the
following:
               a.   The manner in which it was disposed, the date of
disposition, detailed financial records concerning any property sold, and the
name of any person who received the property. The record shall not identify or
enable identification of the individual officer who seized any item of
property.
               b.   An itemized list of the specific types of expenditures made
with amounts that are gained from the sale of the property and that are
retained by the agency, including the specific amount expended on each
expenditure, except that the policy shall not provide for or permit the
identification of any specific expenditure that is made in an ongoing
investigation.
            3.   Complies with R.C. § 2981.13 if the Police Department has a
law enforcement trust fund or similar fund created under that section.
         (b)   The records kept under the internal control policy shall be open
to public inspection during the Police Department’s regular business hours. The
policy adopted under this section is a public record open for inspection under
R.C. § 149.43.
      (3)   (a)   The Police Department, with custody of property to be
disposed of under this section or R.C. § 2981.12 or 2981.13, shall make a
reasonable effort to locate persons entitled to possession of the property, to
notify them of when and where it may be claimed, and to return the property to
them at the earliest possible time. In the absence of evidence identifying
persons entitled to possession, it is sufficient notice to advertise using at
least one of the following methods:
            1.   In the print or digital edition of a newspaper of general
circulation in the county;
            2.   On the official public notice web site established under R.C.
§ 125.182;
            3.   On the web site and social media account of the county.
         (b)   The notices shall briefly describe the nature of the property in
custody and inviting persons to view and establish their right to it.
      (4)   As used in this section:
         CITIZENS’ REWARD PROGRAM has the same meaning as in R.C. § 9.92.
         LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY includes correctional institutions.
         TOWNSHIP LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY means an organized police department
of a township, a township police district, a joint police district, or the
office of a township constable.
(R.C. § 2981.11)
   (B)   Disposition of unclaimed or forfeited property.
      (1)   Unclaimed or forfeited property in the custody of the Police
Department, other than property described in division (A)(1)(b) of this
section, shall be disposed of by order of any court of record that has
territorial jurisdiction over the municipality, as follows:
         (a)   Drugs shall be disposed of pursuant to R.C. § 3719.11 or placed
in the custody of the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States for
disposal or use for medical or scientific purposes under applicable federal
law.
         (b)   Firearms and dangerous ordnance suitable for police work may be
given to a law enforcement agency for that purpose. Firearms suitable for
sporting use or as museum pieces or collectors’ items may be sold at public
auction pursuant to division (B)(2) of this section. The Police Department may
sell other firearms and dangerous ordnance to a federally licensed firearms
dealer in a manner that the court considers proper. The Police Department shall
destroy any firearms or dangerous ordnance not given to a law enforcement
agency or sold or shall send them to the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation for destruction by the Bureau.
         (c)   Obscene materials shall be destroyed.
         (d)   Beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol seized from a person who
does not hold a permit issued under R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303 or otherwise
forfeited to the state for an offense under R.C. § 4301.45 or R.C. § 4301.53
shall be sold by the Division of Liquor Control if the Division determines that
it is fit for sale or shall be placed in the custody of the Investigations Unit
in the Ohio Department of Public Safety and be used for training relating to
law enforcement activities. The Ohio Department of Public Safety, with the
assistance of the Division of Liquor Control, shall adopt rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 to provide for the distribution to state or local law
enforcement agencies upon their request. If any tax imposed under R.C. Title 43
has not been paid in relation to the beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol, any
moneys acquired from the sale shall first be used to pay the tax. All other
money collected under this division (B)(1)(d) shall be paid into the State
Treasury. Any beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol that the Division
determines to be unfit for sale shall be destroyed.
         (e)   Money received by an inmate of a correctional institution from
an unauthorized source or in an unauthorized manner shall be returned to the
sender, if known, or deposited in the inmates’ industrial and entertainment
fund of the institution if the sender is not known.
         (f)   1.   Any mobile instrumentality forfeited under R.C. Chapter
2981 may be given to the law enforcement agency that initially seized the
mobile instrumentality for use in performing its duties, if the agency wants
the mobile instrumentality. The agency shall take the mobile instrumentality
subject to any security interest or lien on the mobile instrumentality.
            2.   Vehicles and vehicle parts forfeited under R.C. §§ 4549.61 to
4549.63 may be given to a law enforcement agency for use in performing its
duties. Those parts may be incorporated into any other official vehicle. Parts
that do not bear vehicle identification numbers or derivatives of them may be
sold or disposed of as provided by rules of the Director of Public Safety.
Parts from which a vehicle identification number or derivative of it has been
removed, defaced, covered, altered, or destroyed and that are not suitable for
police work or incorporation into an official vehicle shall be destroyed and
sold as junk or scrap.
         (g)   Computers, computer networks, computer systems, and computer
software suitable for police work may be given to a law enforcement agency for
that purpose or disposed of under division (B)(2) of this section.
         (h)   Money seized in connection with a violation of R.C. § 2905.32,
2907.21, or 2907.22 shall be deposited in the Victims of Human Trafficking Fund
created by R.C. § 5101.87.
      (2)   Unclaimed or forfeited property that is not described in division
(B)(1) of this section or division (A)(1)(b) of this section, with court
approval, may be used by the law enforcement agency in possession of it. If it
is not used by the agency, it may be sold without appraisal at a public auction
to the highest bidder for cash or disposed of in another manner that the court
considers proper.
      (3)   Except as provided in divisions (B)(1) and (B)(5) of this section
and after compliance with division (B)(4) of this section when applicable, any
moneys acquired from the sale of property disposed of pursuant to this section
shall be placed in the general revenue fund of the state, or the general fund
of the municipality.
      (4)   If the property was in the possession of the Police Department in
relation to a delinquent child proceeding in a juvenile court, 10% of any
moneys acquired from the sale of property disposed of under this section shall
be applied to one or more community addiction services providers, as defined in
R.C. § 5119.01. A juvenile court shall not specify a services provider, except
as provided in this division, unless the services provider is in the same
county as the court or in a contiguous county. If no services provider is
located in any of those counties, the juvenile court may specify a services
provider anywhere in Ohio. The remaining 90% of the proceeds or cash shall be
applied as provided in division (B)(3) of this section.
      (5)   (a)   If the Board of County Commissioners recognizes a citizens’
reward program under R.C. § 9.92, the Board shall notify the Police Department
of the recognition by filing a copy of its resolution conferring that
recognition with the Police Department. When the Board recognizes a citizens’
reward program and the county includes a part, but not all, of the territory of
the municipality, the Board shall so notify the Police Department of the
recognition of the citizens' reward program only if the county contains the
highest percentage of the municipality’s population.
         (b)   Upon being so notified, the Police Department shall pay 25% of
any forfeited proceeds or cash derived from each sale of property disposed of
pursuant to this section to the citizens’ reward program for use exclusively to
pay rewards. No part of the funds may be used to pay expenses associated with
the program. If a citizens’ reward program that operates in more than one
county or in another state in addition to this state receives funds under this
section, the funds shall be used to pay rewards only for tips and information
to law enforcement agencies concerning offenses committed in the county from
which the funds were received.
      (6)   Any property forfeited under R.C. Chapter 2981 not be used to pay
any fine imposed upon a person who is convicted of or pleads guilty to an
underlying criminal offense or a different offense arising out of the same
facts and circumstances.
      (7)   Any moneys acquired from the sale of personal effects, tools, or
other property seized because the personal effects, tools, or other property
were used in the commission of a violation of R.C. § 2905.32, 2907.21, or
2907.22 or derived from the proceeds of the commission of a violation of R.C. §
2905.32, 2907.21, or 2907.22 and disposed of pursuant to this division (B)
shall be placed in the Victims of Human Trafficking Fund created by R.C. §
5101.87.
(R.C. § 2981.12)
   (C)   Disposition of contraband, proceeds, or instrumentalities. Except as
otherwise provided in R.C. § 2981.13, property ordered forfeited as contraband,
proceeds, or an instrumentality pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2981 shall be disposed
of, used, or sold pursuant to division (B) of this section or R.C. § 2981.12.
If the property is to be sold under division (B) of this section or R.C. §
2981.12, the prosecutor shall cause notice of the proposed sale to be given in
accordance with law.
(R.C. § 2981.13(A))
Statutory reference:
   Forfeiture of property generally, see R.C. Chapter 2981
§ 130.18 IMPOSING SENTENCE FOR MISDEMEANOR.
   (A)   (1)   Unless a mandatory jail term is required to be imposed by R.C. §
1547.99(G), 4510.14(B), or 4511.19(G), or any other provision of the Revised
Code, or any municipal ordinance, a court that imposes a sentence under this
chapter upon an offender for a misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor has discretion
to determine the most effective way to achieve the purposes and principles of
sentencing set forth in §
130.99(B).
      (2)   Unless a specific sanction is required to be imposed or is
precluded from being imposed by the section setting forth an offense or the
penalty for an offense or by any provision of §
130.99 or 133.99 of this Code or R.C. §§ 2929.23 through 2929.28, a court that
imposes a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor may impose on the
offender any sanction or combination of sanctions under §
130.99(C) through (G). The court shall not impose a sentence that imposes an
unnecessary burden on local government resources.
   (B)   (1)   In determining the appropriate sentence for a misdemeanor, the
court shall consider all of the following factors:
         (a)   The nature and circumstances of the offense or offenses;
         (b)   Whether the circumstances regarding the offender and the offense
or offenses indicate that the offender has a history of persistent criminal
activity and that the offender’s character and condition reveal a substantial
risk that the offender will commit another offense;
         (c)   Whether the circumstances regarding the offender and the offense
or offenses indicate that the offender’s history, character, and condition
reveal a substantial risk that the offender will be a danger to others and that
the offender’s conduct has been characterized by a pattern of repetitive,
compulsive, or aggressive behavior with heedless indifference to the
consequences;
         (d)   Whether the victim’s youth, age, disability, or other factor
made the victim particularly vulnerable to the offense or made the impact of
the offense more serious;
         (e)   Whether the offender is likely to commit future crimes in
general, in addition to the circumstances described in divisions (B)(1)(b) and
(B)(1)(c) of this section;
         (f)   Whether the offender has an emotional, mental, or physical
condition that is traceable to the offender’s service in the armed forces of
the United States and that was a contributing factor in the offender’s
commission of the offense or offenses;
         (g)   The offender’s military service record.
      (2)   In determining the appropriate sentence for a misdemeanor, if the
offender enters an Alford plea, the sentencing court shall not consider whether
the offender showed genuine remorse for the offense.
      (3)   In determining the appropriate sentence for a misdemeanor, in
addition to complying with division (B)(1) of this section, the court may
consider any other factors that are relevant to achieving the purposes and
principles of sentencing set forth in §
130.99(B).
   (C)   Before imposing a jail term as a sentence for a misdemeanor, a court
shall consider the appropriateness of imposing a community control sanction or
a combination of community control sanctions under §
130.99(D), (E), (F), and (G). A court may impose the longest jail term
authorized under §
130.99(C) only upon offenders who commit the worst forms of the offense or upon
offenders whose conduct and response to prior sanctions for prior offenses
demonstrate that the imposition of the longest jail term is necessary to deter
the offender from committing a future criminal offense.
   (D)   (1)   A sentencing court shall consider any relevant oral and written
statement made by the victim, the victim's representative, the victim's
attorney, if applicable, the defendant, the defense attorney, and the
prosecuting authority regarding sentencing for a misdemeanor. This division
does not create any rights to notice other than those rights authorized by R.C.
Chapter 2930.
      (2)   At the time of sentencing for a misdemeanor or as soon as possible
after sentencing, the court shall notify the victim of the offense of the
victim’s right to file an application for an award of reparations pursuant to
R.C. §§ 2743.51 through 2743.72.
(R.C. § 2929.22)
§ 130.19 MULTIPLE SENTENCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, R.C. § 2929.14(C),
or R.C. § 2971.03(D) or (E), a prison term, jail term, or sentence of
imprisonment shall be served concurrently with any other prison term, jail
term, or sentence of imprisonment imposed by a court of this municipality, the
state, another state, or the United States. Except as provided in division (B)
(2) of this section, a jail term or sentence of imprisonment for misdemeanor
shall be served concurrently with a prison term or sentence of imprisonment for
felony served in a state or federal correctional institution.
   (B)   (1)   A jail term or sentence of imprisonment for a misdemeanor shall
be served consecutively to any other prison term, jail term, or sentence of
imprisonment when the trial court specifies that it is to be served
consecutively or when it is imposed for a misdemeanor violation of R.C. §
2907.322, 2921.34 or 2923.131. When consecutive sentences are imposed for
misdemeanors under this division, the term to be served is the aggregate of the
consecutive terms imposed, except that the aggregate term to be served shall
not exceed 18 months.
      (2)   A jail term or sentence of imprisonment imposed for a misdemeanor
violation of R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.14, 4510.16, 4510.21, or 4511.19, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be served consecutively to
a prison term that is imposed for a felony violation of R.C. § 2903.06, 2903.08
or 4511.19 or a felony violation of R.C. § 2903.04 involving the operation of a
vehicle by the offender and that is served in a state correctional institution
when the trial court specifies that it is to be served consecutively. When
consecutive jail terms or sentences of imprisonment and prison terms are
imposed for one or more misdemeanors and one or more felonies under this
division, the term to be served is the aggregate of the consecutive terms
imposed, and the offender shall serve all terms imposed for a felony before
serving any term imposed for a misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2929.41)
§ 130.20 APPREHENSION, DETENTION, OR ARREST OF PERSON ON BOND.
   (A)   No person, other than a law enforcement officer, shall apprehend,
detain, or arrest a principal on bond, wherever issued, unless that person
meets all of the following criteria:
      (1)   The person is any of the following:
         (a)   Qualified, licensed, and appointed as a surety bail bond agent
under R.C. §§ 3905.83 through 3905.95;
         (b)   Licensed as a surety bail bond agent by the state where the bond
was written;
         (c)   Licensed as a private investigator under R.C. Chapter 4749;
         (d)   Licensed as a private investigator by the state where the bond
was written;
         (e)   An off-duty peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 2921.51.
      (2)   The person, prior to apprehending, detaining, or arresting the
principal, has entered into a written contract with the surety or with a
licensed surety bail bond agent appointed by the surety, which contract sets
forth the name of the principal who is to be apprehended, detained, or
arrested. For purposes of this division (A)(2), SURETY has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 3905.83.
      (3)   The person, prior to apprehending, detaining, or arresting the
principal, has notified the local law enforcement agency having jurisdiction
over the area in which such activities will be performed and has provided any
form or identification or other information requested by the law enforcement
agency.
   (B)   No person shall represent the person’s self to be a bail enforcement
agent or bounty hunter, or claim any similar title, in this municipality.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal bail bond agent
practices.
      (1)   A violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree or, if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of division (A) of this section, or any
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree or, if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of division (B) of this section, or any
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.27)
§ 130.21 SELF-DEFENSE: LIMITATIONS ON DUTY TO RETREAT PRIOR TO USING FORCE.
   (A)   As used in this section, RESIDENCE has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2901.05.
   (B)   For purposes of any section of this code that sets forth a criminal
offense, a person has no duty to retreat before using force in self-defense,
defense of another, or defense of that person’s residence if that person is in
a place in which the person lawfully has a right to be.
   (C)   A trier of fact shall not consider the possibility of retreat as a
factor in determining whether or not a person who used force in self-defense,
defense of another, or defense of that person’s residence reasonably believed
that the force was necessary to prevent injury, loss, or risk to life or
safety.
(R.C. § 2901.09)
§ 130.99 PENALTY FOR TITLE XIII.
   (A)   Except where otherwise specifically classified within the body of the
section of a chapter of this title, a violation of such section shall be deemed
a misdemeanor punishable upon conviction by a fine of not more than $500,
imprisonment of not more than six months, or both.
(R.C. § 715.67)
   (B)   Considerations in misdemeanor sentencing.
      (1)   A court that sentences an offender for a misdemeanor or minor
misdemeanor violation of any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, or of any
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to a misdemeanor or minor
misdemeanor violation of a provision of the Ohio Revised Code, shall be guided
by the overriding purposes of misdemeanor sentencing. The overriding purposes
of misdemeanor sentencing are to protect the public from future crime by the
offender and others and to punish the offender. To achieve those purposes, the
sentencing court shall consider the impact of the offense upon the victim and
the need for changing the offender’s behavior, rehabilitating the defender, and
making restitution to the victim of the offense, the public, or the victim and
the public.
      (2)   A sentence imposed for a misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor violation
of an Ohio Revised Code provision or for a violation of a municipal ordinance
that is subject to division (B)(1) of this section shall be reasonably
calculated to achieve the two overriding purposes of misdemeanor sentencing set
forth in division (B)(1) of this section, commensurate with and not demeaning
to the seriousness of the offender’s conduct and its impact upon the victim,
and consistent with sentences imposed for similar offenses committed by similar
offenders.
      (3)   A court that imposes a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor
or minor misdemeanor violation of an Ohio Revised Code provision or for a
violation of a municipal ordinance that is subject to division (B)(1) of this
section shall not base the sentence upon the race, ethnic background, gender,
or religion of the offender.
      (4)   Divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) of this section shall not apply to any
offense that is disposed of by a traffic violations bureau of any court
pursuant to Traffic Rule 13 and shall not apply to any violation of any
provision of the Ohio Revised Code that is a minor misdemeanor and that is
disposed of without a court appearance. Divisions (B)(1) through (B)(3) of this
section do not affect any penalties established by the municipality for a
violation of its ordinances that are not substantially equivalent to a
misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor violation of a provision of the Ohio Revised
Code.
(R.C. § 2929.21)
   (C)   Misdemeanor jail terms.
      (1)   Except as provided in §
130.18 or
133.99 of this code or R.C. § 2929.22 or 2929.23 or division (C)(5) of this
section and unless another term is required or authorized pursuant to law, if
the sentencing court imposing a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor
elects or is required to impose a jail term on the offender pursuant to this
chapter, the court shall impose a definite jail term that shall be one of the
following:
         (a)   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than 180 days;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than 90 days;
         (c)   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than 60 days;
         (d)   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than 30 days.
      (2)   (a)   A court that sentences an offender to a jail term under
division (C) of this section may permit the offender to serve the sentence in
intermittent confinement or may authorize a limited release of the offender as
provided in division (E)(2) of this section. The court retains jurisdiction
over every offender sentenced to jail to modify the jail sentence imposed at
any time, but the court shall not reduce any mandatory jail term.
         (b)   1.   If a prosecutor, as defined in R.C. § 2935.01, has filed a
notice with the court that the prosecutor wants to be notified about a
particular case and if the court is considering modifying the jail sentence of
the offender in that case, the court shall notify the prosecutor that the court
is considering modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case. The
prosecutor may request a hearing regarding the court’s consideration of
modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case, and, if the
prosecutor requests a hearing, the court shall notify the eligible offender of
the hearing.
            2.   If the prosecutor requests a hearing regarding the court’s
consideration of modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case, the
court shall hold the hearing before considering whether or not to release the
offender from the offender’s jail sentence.
      (3)   If a court sentences an offender to a jail term under division (C)
of this section and the court assigns the offender to a county jail that has
established a county jail industry program pursuant to R.C. § 5147.30, the
court shall specify, as part of the sentence, whether the offender may be
considered for participation in the program. During the offender’s term in the
county jail, the court retains jurisdiction to modify its specification
regarding the offender’s participation in the county jail industry program.
      (4)   If a person sentenced to a jail term pursuant to division (C) of
this section, the court may impose as part of the sentence pursuant to R.C. §
2929.28 a reimbursement sanction, and, if the local detention facility in which
the term is to be served is covered by a policy adopted pursuant to R.C. §
307.93, 341.14, 341.19, 341.21, 341.23, 753.02, 753.04, 753.16, 2301.56, or
2947.19 and R.C. § 2929.37, both of the following apply:
         (a)   The court shall specify both of the following as part of the
sentence:
            1.   If the person is presented with an itemized bill pursuant to
R.C. § 2929.37 for payment of the costs of confinement, the person is required
to pay the bill in accordance with that section.
            2.   If the person does not dispute the bill described in division
(C)(4)(a)1. of this section and does not pay the bill by the times specified in
R.C. § 2929.37, the clerk of the court may issue a certificate of judgment
against the person as described in that section.
         (b)   The sentence automatically includes any certificate of judgment
issued as described in division (C)(4)(a)2. of this section.
      (5)   (a)   If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
misdemeanor violation of R.C. § 2907.23, 2907.24, 2907.241, or 2907.25, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and to a specification of the
type described in R.C. § 2941.1421 and if the court imposes a jail term on the
offender for the misdemeanor violation, the court may impose upon the offender
an additional definite jail term as follows:
            1.   Subject to division (C)(5)(a)2. of this section, an additional
definite jail term of not more than 60 days;
            2.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one or more misdemeanor or felony violations of R.C. § 2907.22,
2907.23, 2907.24, 2907.241, or 2907.25, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and also was convicted of or pleaded guilty to a
specification of the type described in R.C. § 2941.1421 regarding one or more
of those violations, an additional definite jail term of not more than 120
days.
         (b)   In lieu of imposing an additional definite jail term under
division (C)(5)(a) of this section, the court may directly impose on the
offender a sanction that requires the offender to wear a real-time processing,
continual tracking electronic monitoring device during the period of time
specified by the court. The period of time specified by the court shall equal
the duration of an additional jail term that the court could have imposed upon
the offender under division (C)(5)(a) of this section. A sanction imposed under
this division shall commence on the date specified by the court, provided that
the sanction shall not commence until after the offender has served the jail
term imposed for the misdemeanor violation of R.C. § 2907.23, 2907.24,
2907.241, or 2907.25, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and
any residential sanction imposed for the violation under division (E) of this
section or R.C. § 2929.26. A sanction imposed under this division shall be
considered to be a community control sanction for purposes of division (D) of
this section or R.C. § 2929.25, and all provisions of this code and the Ohio
Revised Code that pertain to community control sanctions shall apply to a
sanction imposed under this division, except to the extent that they would by
their nature be clearly inapplicable. The offender shall pay all costs
associated with a sanction imposed under this division, including the cost of
the use of the monitoring device.
      (6)   If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor
violation of R.C. § 2903.13 and also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
specification of the type described in R.C. § 2941.1423 that charges that the
victim of the violation was a woman whom the offender knew was pregnant at the
time of the violation, the court shall impose on the offender a mandatory jail
term that is a definite term of at least 30 days.
      (7)   If a court sentences an offender to a jail term under this division
(C), the sentencing court retains jurisdiction over the offender and the jail
term. Upon motion of either party or upon the court’s own motion, the court, in
the court’s sole discretion and as the circumstances warrant, may substitute
one or more community control sanctions under division (E) or (F) of this
section for any jail days that are not mandatory jail days.
(R.C. § 2929.24)
   (D)   Misdemeanor community control sanctions.
      (1)   (a)   Except as provided in §§
130.18 and
133.99 of this Code or R.C. §§ 2929.22 and 2929.23 or when a jail term is
required by law, in sentencing an offender for a misdemeanor, other than a
minor misdemeanor, the sentencing court may do either of the following:
            1.   Directly impose a sentence that consists of one or more
community control sanctions authorized by divisions (E), (F), or (G) of this
section. The court may impose any other conditions of release under a community
control sanction that the court considers appropriate. If the court imposes a
jail term upon the offender, the court may impose any community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions in addition to the jail
term.
            2.   Impose a jail term under division (C) of this section from the
range of jail terms authorized under that division for the offense, suspend all
or a portion of the jail term imposed, and place the offender under a community
control sanction or combination of community control sanctions authorized under
divisions (E), (F), or (G) of this section.
         (b)   The duration of all community control sanctions imposed upon an
offender and in effect for an offender at any time shall not exceed five years.
         (c)   At sentencing, if a court directly imposes a community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions pursuant to division (D)
(1)(a)1. of this section, the court shall state the duration of the community
control sanctions imposed and shall notify the offender that if any of the
conditions of the community control sanctions are violated the court may do any
of the following:
            1.   Impose a longer time under the same community control sanction
if the total time under all of the offender’s community control sanctions does
not exceed the five-year limit specified in division (D)(1)(b) of this section;
            2.   Impose a more restrictive community control sanction under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section, but the court is not required to
impose any particular sanction or sanctions;
            3.   Impose a definite jail term from the range of jail terms
authorized for the offense under division (C) of this section.
      (2)   If a court sentences an offender to any community control sanction
or combination of community control sanctions pursuant to division (D)(1)(a)1.
of this section, the sentencing court retains jurisdiction over the offender
and the period of community control for the duration of the period of community
control. Upon the motion of either party or on the court’s own motion, the
court, in the court’s sole discretion and as the circumstances warrant, may
modify the community control sanctions or conditions of release previously
imposed, substitute a community control sanction or condition of release for
another community control sanction or condition of release previously imposed,
or impose an additional community control sanction or condition of release.
      (3)   (a)   If a court sentences an offender to any community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions authorized under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section, the court shall place the offender
under the general control and supervision of the court or of a department of
probation in the jurisdiction that serves the court for purposes of reporting
to the court a violation of any of the conditions of the sanctions imposed. If
the offender resides in another jurisdiction and a department of probation has
been established to serve the municipal court or county court in that
jurisdiction, the sentencing court may request the municipal court or the
county court to receive the offender into the general control and supervision
of that department of probation for purposes of reporting to the sentencing
court a violation of any of the conditions of the sanctions imposed. The
sentencing court retains jurisdiction over any offender whom it sentences for
the duration of the sanction or sanctions imposed.
         (b)   The sentencing court shall require as a condition of any
community control sanction that the offender abide by the law and not leave the
state without the permission of the court or the offender’s probation officer.
In the interests of doing justice, rehabilitating the offender, and ensuring
the offender’s good behavior, the court may impose additional requirements on
the offender. The offender’s compliance with the additional requirements also
shall be a condition of the community control sanction imposed upon the
offender.
      (4)   (a)   If the court imposing sentence upon an offender sentences the
offender to any community control sanction or combination of community control
sanctions authorized under division (E), (F), or (G) of this section, and the
offender violates any of the conditions of the sanctions, the public or private
person or entity that supervises or administers the program or activity that
comprises the sanction shall report the violation directly to the sentencing
court or to the department of probation or probation officer with general
control and supervision over the offender. If the public or private person or
entity reports the violation to the department of probation or probation
officer, the department or officer shall report the violation to the sentencing
court.
         (b)   Except as provided in division (D)(4)(c) of this section, if an
offender violates any condition of a community control sanction, the sentencing
court may impose upon the violator one or more of the following penalties:
            1.   A longer time under the same community control sanction if the
total time under all of the community control sanctions imposed on the violator
does not exceed the five-year limit specified in division (D)(1)(b) of this
section;
            2.   A more restrictive community control sanction;
            3.   A combination of community control sanctions, including a jail
term.
         (c)   If an offender was acting pursuant to R.C. § 2925.11(B)(2)(b),
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or a related provision
under R.C. § 2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14, or R.C. § 2925.141, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, and in so doing violated the conditions of a
community control sanction based on a minor drug possession offense, as defined
in R.C. § 2925.11, or violated R.C. § 2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14(C)(1), or R.C. §
2925.141, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the sentencing
court shall not impose any of the penalties described in division (D)(4)(b) of
this section based on the violation.
         (d)   If the court imposes a jail term upon a violator pursuant to
division (D)(4)(b) of this section, the total time spent in jail for the
misdemeanor offense and the violation of a condition of the community control
sanction shall not exceed the maximum jail term available for the offense for
which the sanction that was violated was imposed. The court may reduce the
longer period of time that the violator is required to spend under the longer
sanction or the more restrictive sanction imposed under division (D)(4)(b) of
this section by all or part of the time the violator successfully spent under
the sanction that was initially imposed.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if an offender, for
a significant period of time, fulfills the conditions of a community control
sanction imposed pursuant to division (E), (F), or (G) of this section in an
exemplary manner, the court may reduce the period of time under the community
control sanction or impose a less restrictive community control sanction.
Fulfilling the conditions of a community control sanction does not relieve the
offender of a duty to make restitution under division (G) of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.25)
   (E)   Community residential sanction.
      (1)   Except when a mandatory jail term is required by law, the court
imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a minor misdemeanor, may
impose upon the offender any community residential sanction or combination of
community residential sanctions under this division (E). Community residential
sanctions include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   A term of up to 180 days in a halfway house or a term in a
halfway house not to exceed the longest jail term available for the offense,
whichever is shorter, if the political subdivision that would have
responsibility for paying the costs of confining the offender in a jail has
entered into a contract with the halfway house for use of the facility for
misdemeanor offenders;
         (b)   If the offender is an eligible offender, as defined in R.C. §
307.932, a term in a community alternative sentencing center or district
community alternative sentencing center established and operated in accordance
with that section, in the circumstances specified in that section, with one of
the conditions of the sanction being that the offender successfully complete
the portion of the sentence to be served in the center.
      (2)   A sentence to a community residential sanction under division (E)
(1)(b) of this section shall be in accordance with R.C. § 307.932. In all other
cases, the court that sentences an offender to a community residential sanction
under this division (E) may do either or both of the following:
         (a)   Permit the offender to serve the offender’s sentence in
intermittent confinement, overnight, on weekends or at any other time or times
that will allow the offender to continue at the offender’s occupation or care
for the offender’s family;
         (b)   Authorize the offender to be released so that the offender may
seek or maintain employment, receive education or training, receive treatment,
perform community service, or otherwise fulfill an obligation imposed by law or
by the court. A release pursuant to this division shall be only for the
duration of time that is needed to fulfill the purpose of the release and for
travel that reasonably is necessary to fulfill the purposes of release.
      (3)   The court may order that a reasonable portion of the income earned
by the offender upon a release pursuant to division (E)(2) of this section be
applied to any financial sanction imposed under division (G) of this section.
      (4)   No court shall sentence any person to a prison term for a
misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor, or to a jail term for a minor misdemeanor.
      (5)   If a court sentences a person who has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a misdemeanor to a community residential sanction as described in
division (E)(1) of this section, at the time of reception and at other times
the person in charge of the operation of the halfway house, community
alternative sentencing center, district community alternative sentencing
center, or other place at which the offender will serve the residential
sanction determines to be appropriate, the person in charge of the operation of
the halfway house, community alternative sentencing center, district community
alternative sentencing center, or other place may cause the convicted offender
to be examined and tested for tuberculosis, HIV infection, hepatitis,
including, but not limited to, hepatitis A, B, and C, and other contagious
diseases. The person in charge of the operation of the halfway house, community
alternative sentencing center, district community alternative sentencing
center, or other place at which the offender will serve the residential
sanction may cause a convicted offender in the halfway house, community
alternative sentencing center, district community alternative sentencing
center, or other place who refuses to be tested or treated for tuberculosis,
HIV infection, hepatitis, including, but not limited to, hepatitis A, B, and C,
or another contagious disease to be tested and treated involuntarily.
      (6)   The municipality may enter into a contract with a halfway house for
use of the halfway house to house misdemeanor offenders under a sanction
imposed under division (E)(1)(a) of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.26)
   (F)   Nonresidential sanction where jail term is not mandatory.
      (1)   Except when a mandatory jail term is required by law, the court
imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a minor misdemeanor, may
impose upon the offender any nonresidential sanction or combination of
nonresidential sanctions authorized under this division. Nonresidential
sanctions include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   A term of day reporting;
         (b)   A term of house arrest with electronic monitoring or continuous
alcohol monitoring or both electronic monitoring and continuous alcohol
monitoring, a term of electronic monitoring or continuous alcohol monitoring
without house arrest, or a term of house arrest without electronic monitoring
or continuous alcohol monitoring;
         (c)   A term of community service of up to 500 hours for misdemeanor
of the first degree or 200 hours for a misdemeanor of the second, third, or
fourth degree;
         (d)   A term in a drug treatment program with a level of security for
the offender as determined necessary by the court;
         (e)   A term of intensive probation supervision;
         (f)   A term of basic probation supervision;
         (g)   A term of monitored time;
         (h)   A term of drug and alcohol use monitoring, including random drug
testing;
         (i)   A curfew term;
         (j)   A requirement that the offender obtain employment;
         (k)   A requirement that the offender obtain education or training;
         (l)   Provided the court obtains the prior approval of the victim, a
requirement that the offender participate in victim-offender mediation;
         (m)   If authorized by law, suspension of the offender’s privilege to
operate a motor vehicle, immobilization or forfeiture of the offender’s motor
vehicle, a requirement that the offender obtain a valid motor vehicle
operator’s license, or any other related sanction;
         (n)   A requirement that the offender obtain counseling if the offense
is a violation of R.C. § 2919.25 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance or a violation of R.C. § 2903.13 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance involving a person who was a family or household member at
the time of the violation, if the offender committed the offense in the
vicinity of one or more children who are not victims of the offense, and if the
offender or the victim of the offense is a parent, guardian, custodian, or
person in loco parentis of one or more of those children. This division does
not limit the court in requiring that the offender obtain counseling for any
offense or in any circumstance not specified in this division.
      (2)   If the court imposes a term of community service pursuant to
division (F)(1)(c) of this section, the offender may request that the court
modify the sentence to authorize the offender to make a reasonable
contribution, as determined by the court, to the general fund of the county,
municipality, or other local entity that provides funding to the court. The
court may grant the request if the offender demonstrates a change in
circumstances from the date the court imposes the sentence or that the
modification would otherwise be in the interests of justice. If the court
grants the request, the offender shall make a reasonable contribution to the
court, and the clerk of the court shall deposit that contribution into the
general fund of the county, municipality, or other local entity that provides
funding to the court. If more than one entity provides funding to the court,
the clerk shall deposit a percentage of the reasonable contribution equal to
the percentage of funding the entity provides to the court in that entity’s
general fund.
      (3)   In addition to the sanctions authorized under division (F)(1) of
this section, the court imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a
minor misdemeanor, upon an offender who is not required to serve a mandatory
jail term may impose any other sanction that is intended to discourage the
offender or other persons from committing a similar offense if the sanction is
reasonably related to the overriding purposes and principles of misdemeanor
sentencing.
      (4)   The court imposing a sentence for a minor misdemeanor may impose a
term of community service in lieu of all or part of a fine. The term of
community service imposed for a minor misdemeanor shall not exceed 30 hours.
After imposing a term of community service, the court may modify the sentence
to authorize a reasonable contribution, as determined by the court, to the
appropriate general fund as provided in division (F)(2) of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.27)
   (G)   Financial sanctions.
      (1)   In addition to imposing court costs pursuant to R.C. § 2947.23, the
court imposing a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor, including a minor
misdemeanor, may sentence the offender to any financial sanction or combination
of financial sanctions authorized under this division (G) and, if the offender
is being sentenced for a criminal offense as defined in R.C. § 2930.01, shall
sentence the offender to make restitution pursuant to this division (G) and
R.C. § 2929.281. If the court, in its discretion or as required by this
division (G), imposes one or more financial sanctions, the financial sanctions
that may be imposed pursuant to this division (G) include, but are not limited
to, the following:
         (a)   Restitution.
            1.   Unless the misdemeanor offense could be disposed of by the
traffic violations bureau serving the court under Traffic Rule 13, restitution
by the offender to the victim of the offender's crime or the victim's estate,
in an amount based on the victim's economic loss. The court may not impose
restitution as a sanction pursuant to this division if the offense could be
disposed of by the traffic violations bureau serving the court under Traffic
Rule 13. If the court requires restitution, the court shall order that the
restitution be made to the victim in open court or to the adult probation
department that serves the jurisdiction or the clerk of the court on behalf of
the victim.
            2.   The court shall determine the amount of restitution to be paid
by the offender. The victim, victim's representative, victim's attorney, if
applicable, the prosecutor or the prosecutor's designee, and the offender may
provide information relevant to the determination of the amount of restitution.
The amount the court orders as restitution shall not exceed the amount of the
economic loss suffered by the victim as a direct and proximate result of the
commission of the offense. If the court imposes restitution for the cost of
accounting or auditing done to determine the extent of economic loss, the court
may order restitution for any amount of the victim's costs of accounting or
auditing provided that the amount of restitution is reasonable and does not
exceed the value of property or services stolen or damaged as a result of the
offense. If the court decides to or is required to impose restitution, the
court shall hold an evidentiary hearing on restitution if the offender, victim,
victim's representative, victim's attorney, if applicable, or victim's estate
disputes the amount of restitution. The court shall determine the amount of
full restitution by a preponderance of the evidence.
            3.   All restitution payments shall be credited against any
recovery of economic loss in a civil action brought by the victim or the
victim's estate against the offender. No person may introduce evidence of an
award of restitution under this division (G) in a civil action for purposes of
imposing liability against an insurer under R.C. § 3937.18.
            4.   The court may order that the offender pay a surcharge, of not
more than 5% of the amount of the restitution otherwise ordered, to the entity
responsible for collecting and processing restitution payments.
            5.   The victim, victim's attorney, if applicable, or the attorney
for the victim's estate may request that the prosecutor in the case file a
motion, or the offender may file a motion, for modification of the payment
terms of any restitution ordered. If the court grants the motion, it may modify
the payment terms as it determines appropriate but shall not reduce the amount
of restitution ordered, except as provided in R.C. § 2929.281(A).
         (b)   Fines. A fine of the type described in divisions (G)(1)(b)1. and
(G)(1)(b)2. of this section payable to the appropriate entity as required by
law:
            1.   A fine in the following amount:
               a.   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than
$1,000;
               b.   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than $750;
               c.   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than $500;
               d.   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than $250;
               e.   For a minor misdemeanor, not more than $150.
            2.   A state fine or cost as defined in R.C. § 2949.111.
         (c)   Reimbursement.
            1.   Reimbursement by the offender of any or all of the costs of
sanctions incurred by the government, including, but not limited to, the
following:
               a.   All or part of the costs of implementing any community
control sanction, including a supervision fee under R.C. § 2951.021 and the
costs of global positioning system device monitoring;
               b.   All or part of the costs of confinement in a jail or other
residential facility, including, but not limited to, a per diem fee for room
and board, the costs of medical and dental treatment, and the costs of
repairing property damaged by the offender while confined;
               c.   All or part of the cost of purchasing and using an
immobilizing or disabling device, including a certified ignition interlock
device, or a remote alcohol monitoring device that a court orders an offender
to use under R.C. § 4510.13.
            2.   The amount of reimbursement under division (G)(1)(c)1. of this
section shall not exceed the total amount of reimbursement the offender is able
to pay and shall not exceed the actual cost of the sanctions. The court may
collect any amount of reimbursement the offender is required to pay under that
division. If the court does not order reimbursement under that division,
confinement costs may be assessed pursuant to a repayment policy adopted under
R.C. § 2929.37. In addition, the offender may be required to pay the fees
specified in R.C. § 2929.38 in accordance with that section.   
      (2)   (a)   If the court determines a hearing is necessary, the court may
hold a hearing to determine whether the offender is able to pay the financial
sanction imposed pursuant to this division (G) or court costs or is likely in
the future to be able to pay the sanction or costs.
         (b)   If the court determines that the offender is indigent and unable
to pay the financial sanction or court costs, the court shall consider imposing
and may impose a term of community service under division (F)(1) of this
section in lieu of imposing a financial sanction or court costs. If the court
does not determine that the offender is indigent, the court may impose a term
of community service under division (F)(1) of this section in lieu of or in
addition to imposing a financial sanction under this division (G) and in
addition to imposing court costs. The court may order community service for a
minor misdemeanor pursuant to division (F)(4) of this section in lieu of or in
addition to imposing a financial sanction under this section and in addition to
imposing court costs. If a person fails to pay a financial sanction or court
costs, the court may order community service in lieu of the financial sanction
or court costs.
      (3)   (a)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed upon the
offender pursuant to division (G)(1)(c) of this section to pay the costs
incurred by a county pursuant to any sanction imposed under division (E), (F),
or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to confine offenders
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this section to the county
treasurer. The county treasurer shall deposit the reimbursements in the
county’s general fund. The county shall use the amounts deposited in the fund
to pay the costs incurred by the county pursuant to any sanction imposed under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to
confine offenders pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this
section.
         (b)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed upon the offender
pursuant to division (G)(1)(c) of this section to pay the costs incurred by a
municipal corporation pursuant to any sanction imposed under division (E), (F),
or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to confine offenders
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this section to the
treasurer of the municipal corporation. The treasurer shall deposit the
reimbursements in the municipal corporation’s general fund. The municipal
corporation shall use the amounts deposited in the fund to pay the costs
incurred by the municipal corporation pursuant to any sanction imposed under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to
confine offenders pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this
section.
         (c)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed pursuant to
division (G)(1)(c) of this section for the costs incurred by a private provider
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E), (F), or (G) of this section
to the provider.
      (4)   (a)   In addition to any other fine that is or may be imposed under
this section, the court imposing sentence upon an offender for misdemeanor
domestic violence or menacing by stalking may impose a fine of not less than
$70 nor more than $500, which shall, except as provided in divisions (G)(4)(b)
and (G)(4)(c) of this section, be transmitted to the Treasurer of Ohio to be
credited to the address confidentiality program fund created by R.C. § 111.48.
         (b)   A court that imposes a fine under division (G)(4)(a) of this
section may retain up to 25% of amounts collected in satisfaction of the fine
to cover administrative costs.
         (c)   A court that imposes a fine under division (G)(4)(a) of this
section may assign up to 25% of amounts collected in satisfaction of the fine
to reimburse the prosecuting attorney for costs associated with prosecution of
the offense.
      (5)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (G)(5), a
financial sanction imposed under division (G)(1) of this section is a judgment
in favor of the state or the political subdivision that operates the court that
imposed the financial sanction, and the offender subject to the financial
sanction is the judgment debtor. A financial sanction of reimbursement imposed
pursuant to division (G)(1)(c)1.a. of this section upon an offender is a
judgment in favor of the entity administering the community control sanction,
and the offender subject to the financial sanction is the judgment debtor. A
financial sanction of reimbursement imposed pursuant to division (G)(1)(c)1.b.
of this section upon an offender confined in a jail or other residential
facility is a judgment in favor of the entity operating the jail or other
residential facility, and the offender subject to the financial sanction is the
judgment debtor. A financial sanction of restitution imposed pursuant to
division (G)(1)(a) of this section is an order in favor of the victim of the
offender’s criminal act that can be collected through a certificate of judgment
as described in division (G)(5)(b)1. of this section, through execution as
described in division (G)(5)(b)2. of this section or through an order as
described in division (G)(5)(b)3. of this section and the offender shall be
considered for purposes of the collection as a judgment debtor.
         (b)   Once a financial sanction is imposed as a judgment or order
under this division, the victim, private provider, state, or political
subdivision may do any of the following:
            1.   Obtain from the clerk of the court in which the judgment was
entered, at no charge, a certificate of judgment that shall be in the same
manner and form as a certificate of judgment issued in a civil action;
            2.   Obtain execution of the judgment or order through any
available procedure, including any of the procedures identified in R.C. §
2929.18(D)(1) and (D)(2) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
            3.   Obtain an order for the assignment of wages of the judgment
debtor under R.C. § 1321.33 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (6)   The civil remedies authorized under division (G)(5) of this section
for the collection of the financial sanction supplement, but do not preclude,
enforcement of the criminal sentence.
      (7)   Each court imposing a financial sanction upon an offender under
this division (G) may designate the clerk of the court or another person to
collect the financial sanction. The clerk, or another person authorized by law
or the court to collect the financial sanction may do the following:
         (a)   Enter into contracts with one or more public agencies or private
vendors for the collection of amounts due under the sanction. Before entering
into a contract for the collection of amounts due from an offender pursuant to
any financial sanction imposed pursuant to this division (G), a court shall
comply with R.C. §§ 307.86 through 307.92.
         (b)   Permit payment of all or any portion of the sanction in
installments, by financial transaction device if the court is a county court or
a municipal court operated by a county, or by any other reasonable method, in
any time, and on any terms that the court considers just. If the court is a
county court or a municipal court operated by a county, the acceptance of
payments by any financial transaction device shall be governed by the policy
adopted by the board of county commissioners of the county pursuant to R.C. §
301.28. If the court is a municipal court not operated by a county, the clerk
may pay any fee associated with processing an electronic transfer out of public
money or may charge the fee to the offender.
         (c)   To defray administrative costs, charge a reasonable fee to an
offender who elects a payment plan rather than a lump sum payment of any
financial sanction.
      (8)   No financial sanction imposed under this division (G) shall
preclude a victim from bringing a civil action against the offender.
      (9)   If the court imposes restitution, fines, fees, or incarceration
costs on a business or corporation, it is the duty of the person authorized to
make disbursements from assets of the business or corporation to pay the
restitution, fines, fees, or incarceration costs from those assets.
(R.C. § 2929.28)
   (H)   Organizational penalties.
      (1)   Regardless of the other penalties provided in this section, an
organization convicted of an offense pursuant to §
130.09 shall be fined by the court as follows:
         (a)   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than $5,000;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than $4,000;
         (c)   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than $3,000;
         (d)   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than $2,000;
         (e)   For a minor misdemeanor, not more than $1,000;
         (f)   For a misdemeanor not specifically classified, not more than
$2,000;
         (g)   For a minor misdemeanor not specifically classified, not more
than $1,000.
      (2)   When an organization is convicted of an offense not specifically
classified, and the section defining the offense or penalty plainly indicates a
purpose to impose the penalty provided for violation upon organizations, then
such penalty shall be imposed in lieu of the penalty provided in this section.
      (3)   When an organization is convicted of an offense not specifically
classified, and the penalty provided includes a higher fine than that provided
in this section, then the penalty imposed shall be pursuant to the penalty
provided for violation of the section defining the offense.
      (4)   This section does not prevent the imposition of available civil
sanctions against an organization convicted of an offense pursuant to §
130.09, either in addition to or in lieu of a fine imposed pursuant to this
section.
(R.C. § 2929.31)
Cross-reference:
   Sentencing for sexually oriented offenses; sexual predators; registration,
see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Citation issuance and limitations on arrest for minor misdemeanors, see R.C.
§ 2935.26
   Crime victim's reparations fund, see R.C. § 2929.32
   Habitual sex offender and sexual predator registration, see R.C. Chapter
2950
   Reimbursement for costs of confinement, see R.C. §§ 2929.36 et seq.
   Reports to health care licensing boards of criminal offenses, see R.C. §
2929.42
   Restitution, see R.C. § 2929.281
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
131.01   Definitions
   
131.02   Arson; determining property value or amount of physical harm
   
131.03   Criminal damaging or endangering; vehicular vandalism
   
131.04   Criminal mischief
   
131.05   Damaging or endangering aircraft or airport operations
   
131.06   Criminal trespass; aggravated trespass
   
131.07   Tampering with coin machines
   
131.08   Theft
   
131.09   Unauthorized use of a vehicle
   
131.10   Unauthorized use of property, including telecommunication property and
computers; possession of municipal property
   
131.11   Passing bad checks
   
131.12   Misuse of credit cards
   
131.13   Making or using slugs
   
131.14   Prima facie evidence of purpose to defraud
   
131.15   Tampering with records
   
131.16   Securing writings by deception
   
131.17   Defrauding creditors
   
131.18   Receiving stolen property
   
131.19   Value of stolen property
   
131.20   Degree of offense when certain property involved
   
131.21   Injuring vines, bushes, trees, or crops
   
131.22   Detention and arrest of shoplifters and those committing motion
picture piracy; protection of institutional property
   
131.23   Insurance fraud; workers' compensation fraud; medicaid fraud
   
131.24   Injury to property by hunters
   
131.25   Evidence of intent to commit theft of rented property; evidence of
lack of capacity to consent
   
131.26   Forgery of identification cards
   
131.27   Criminal simulation
   
131.28   Personating an officer
   
131.29   Trademark counterfeiting
   
131.30   Recording credit card, telephone or Social Security numbers
   
131.31   Prosecutions for theft of utilities
   
131.32   Motion picture piracy
   
131.33   Diminishing or interfering with forfeitable property
   
131.34   Railroad vandalism; criminal trespass; interference with operation of
train; grade crossing device vandalism
Cross-reference:
   Animals, offenses against, see §§ 90.10 et seq.
   Property recovered by police, deposit of stolen property, see §§ 34.10 et
seq.
Statutory reference:
   Cable television service devices, unauthorized sale or possession, felony,
see R.C. § 2913.041
   Deceptive acts or practices in connection with consumer transactions, see
O.A.C. Chapter 109:4-3
   Disrupting public services, felony, see R.C. § 2909.04
   E-mail advertisements, civil offenses and felony forgery offense, see R.C. §
2307.64
   E-mail spam, civil offenses and felony offenses, see R.C. § 2913.421
   Food stamps, illegal use, see R.C. § 2913.46
   Telecommunications: fraud and unlawful use of a device, felony offenses, see
R.C. §§ 2913.05 and 2913.06
   Terrorism involving agricultural products or equipment, see R.C. § 901.511
§ 131.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTIVE DUTY SERVICE MEMBER. Any member of the armed forces of the United
States performing active duty under Title 10 of the United States Code.
   ANHYDROUS AMMONIA. A compound formed by the combination of two gaseous
elements, nitrogen and hydrogen, in the manner described below. Anhydrous
ammonia is one part nitrogen to three parts hydrogen (NH3). Anhydrous ammonia
by weight is fourteen parts nitrogen to three parts hydrogen, which is
approximately 82% nitrogen to 18% hydrogen.
   ASSISTANCE DOG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 955.011.
   CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE. Any services provided by or through the facilities
of any cable television system or other similar closed circuit coaxial cable
communications system, or any microwave or similar transmission service used in
connection with any cable television system or other similar closed circuit
coaxial cable communications system.
   COIN MACHINE. Any mechanical or electronic device designed to do both of the
following:
      (1)   Receive a coin or bill, or token made for that purpose;
      (2)   In return for the insertion or deposit of a coin, bill, or token,
automatically dispense property, provide a service, or grant a license.
   COMPUTER. An electronic device that performs logical, arithmetic, and memory
functions by the manipulation of electronic or magnetic impulses. COMPUTER
includes, but is not limited to, all input, output, processing, storage,
computer program, or communication facilities that are connected, or related,
in a computer system or network to an electronic device of that nature.
   COMPUTER CONTAMINANT. Means a computer program that is designed to modify,
damage, destroy, disable, deny or degrade access to, allow unauthorized access
to, functionally impair, record, or transmit information within a computer,
computer system, or computer network without the express or implied consent of
the owner or other person authorized to give consent and that is of a type or
kind described in divisions (1) through (4) of this definition or of a type or
kind similar to a type or kind described in divisions (1) through (4) of this
definition:
      (1)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “viruses” and
“worms” that are self- replicating or self-propagating and that are designed to
contaminate other computer programs, compromise computer security, consume
computer resources, modify, destroy, record, or transmit data, or disrupt the
normal operation of the computer, computer system, or computer network;
      (2)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “Trojans” or “Trojan
horses” that are not self-replicating or self-propagating and that are designed
to compromise computer security, consume computer resources, modify, destroy,
record, or transmit data, or disrupt the normal operation of the computer,
computer system, or computer network;
      (3)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “zombies” that are
designed to use a computer without the knowledge and consent of the owner, or
other person authorized to give consent, and that are designed to send large
quantities of data to a targeted computer network for the purpose of degrading
the targeted computer’s or network’s performance, or denying access through the
network to the targeted computer or network, resulting in what is commonly
known as “denial of service” or “distributed denial of service” attacks;
      (4)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “trap doors”, “back
doors”, or “root kits” that are designed to bypass standard authentication
software and that are designed to allow access or use of a computer without the
knowledge or consent of the owner, or other person authorized to give consent.
   COMPUTER HACKING.
      (1)   COMPUTER HACKING means any of the following:
         (a)   Gaining access or attempting to gain access to all or part of a
computer, computer system, or a computer network without express or implied
authorization with the intent to defraud or with intent to commit a crime;
         (b)   Misusing computer or network services including but not limited
to mail transfer programs, file transfer programs, proxy servers, and web
servers by performing functions not authorized by the owner of the computer,
computer system, or computer network or other person authorized to give
consent. As used in this division, “misuse of computer and network services”
includes but is not limited to the unauthorized use of any of the following:
            1.   Mail transfer programs to send mail to persons other than the
authorized users of that computer or computer network;
            2.   File transfer program services or proxy servers to access
other computers, computer systems, or computer networks;
            3.   Web servers to redirect users to other web pages or web
servers.
         (c)   1.   Subject to division (1)(c)2. of this definition, using a
group of computer programs commonly known as “port scanners” or “probes” to
intentionally access any computer, computer system, or computer network without
the permission of the owner of the computer, computer system, or computer
network or other person authorized to give consent. The group of computer
programs referred to in this division includes but is not limited to those
computer programs that use a computer network to access a computer, computer
system, or another computer network to determine any of the following: the
presence or types of computers or computer systems on a network; the computer
network’s facilities and capabilities; the availability of computer or network
services; the presence or versions of computer software including but not
limited to operating systems, computer services, or computer contaminants; the
presence of a known computer software deficiency that can be used to gain
unauthorized access to a computer, computer system, or computer network; or any
other information about a computer, computer system, or computer network not
necessary for the normal and lawful operation of the computer initiating the
access.
            2.   The group of computer programs referred to in division (1)
(c)1. of this definition does not include standard computer software used for
the normal operation, administration, management, and test of a computer,
computer system, or computer network including but not limited to domain name
services, mail transfer services, and other operating system services, computer
programs commonly called “ping”, “tcpdump”, and “traceroute” and other network
monitoring and management computer software, and computer programs commonly
knows as “nslookup” and “whois” and other systems administration computer
software.
         (d)   The intentional use of a computer, computer system, or a
computer network in a manner that exceeds any right or permission granted by
the owner of the computer, computer system, or computer network or other person
authorized to give consent.
      (2)   COMPUTER HACKING does not include the introduction of a computer
contaminant, as defined in this section, into a computer, computer system,
computer program, or computer network.
   COMPUTER NETWORK. A set of related and remotely-connected computers and
communication facilities that includes more than one computer system that has
the capability to transmit among the connected computers and communication
facilities through the use of computer facilities.
   COMPUTER PROGRAM. An ordered set of data representing coded instructions or
statements that, when executed by a computer, causes the computer to process
data.
   COMPUTER SERVICES. Includes, but is not limited to, the use of a computer
system, computer network, computer program, data that is prepared for computer
use, or data that is contained within a computer system or computer network.
   COMPUTER SOFTWARE. Computer programs, procedures, and other documentation
associated with the operation of a computer system.
   COMPUTER SYSTEM. A computer and related devices, whether connected or
unconnected, including, but not limited to, data input, output, and storage
devices, data communications links, and computer programs and data that make
the system capable of performing specified special purpose data processing
tasks.
   COUNTERFEIT TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. A telecommunications device that,
alone or with another telecommunications device, has been altered, constructed,
manufactured, or programmed to acquire, intercept, receive, or otherwise
facilitate the use of a telecommunications service or information service
without the authority or consent of the provider of the telecommunications
service or information service. The phrase includes but is not limited to a
clone telephone, clone microchip, tumbler telephone, or tumbler microchip; a
wireless scanning device capable of acquiring, intercepting, receiving, or
otherwise facilitating the use of telecommunications service or information
service without immediate detection; or a device, equipment, hardware, or
software designed for, or capable of, altering or changing the electronic
serial number in a wireless telephone.
   CREATE A SUBSTANTIAL RISK OF SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO ANY PERSON. Includes
the creation of a substantial risk of serious physical harm to any emergency
personnel.
   CREDIT CARD. Includes, but is not limited to, a card, code, device, or other
means of access to a customer's account for the purpose of obtaining money,
property, labor, or services on credit, or for initiating an electronic fund
transfer at a point-of-sale terminal, an automated teller machine, or a cash
dispensing machine. It also includes a county procurement card issued under
R.C. § 301.29.
   DANGEROUS DRUG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   DATA. A representation of information, knowledge, facts, concepts, or
instructions that are being or have been prepared in a formalized manner and
that are intended for use in a computer, computer system, or computer network.
   DECEPTION. To knowingly deceive another or cause another to be deceived by
any false or misleading representation, by withholding information, by
preventing another from acquiring information, or by any other conduct, act, or
omission that creates, confirms, or perpetuates a false impression in another,
including a false impression as to law, value, state of mind, or other
objective or subjective fact.
   DEFRAUD. To knowingly obtain, by deception, some benefit for oneself or
another, or to knowingly cause, by deception, some detriment to another.
   DEPRIVE. To do any of the following:
      (1)   To withhold property of another permanently, or for a period that
appropriates a substantial portion of its value or use, or with purpose to
restore it only upon payment of a reward or other consideration;
      (2)   To dispose of property so as to make it unlikely that the owner
will recover it;
      (3)   To accept, use, or appropriate money, property, or services, with
purpose not to give proper consideration in return for the money, property, or
services, and without reasonable justification or excuse for not giving proper
consideration.
   DISABLED ADULT. A person who is 18 years of age or older and has some
impairment of body or mind that makes the person unable to work at any
substantially remunerative employment that the person otherwise would be able
to perform and that will, with reasonable probability, continue for a period of
at least 12 months without any present indication of recovery from the
impairment, or who is 18 years of age or older and has been certified as
permanently and totally disabled by an agency of this state or the United
States that has the function of so classifying persons.
   DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   ELDERLY PERSON. A person who is 65 years of age or older.
   ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER. Has the same meaning as in 92 Stat. 3728, 15
U.S.C. § 1693a, as amended.
   EMERGENCY PERSONNEL. Means any of the following persons:
      (1)   A peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 2935.01;
      (2)   A member of a fire department or other firefighting agency of a
municipal corporation, township, township fire district, joint fire district,
other political subdivision, or combination of political subdivisions;
      (3)   A member of a private fire company, as defined in R.C. § 9.60, or a
volunteer firefighter;
      (4)    A member of a joint ambulance district or joint emergency medical
services district;
      (5)   An emergency medical technician-basic, emergency medical
technician-intermediate, emergency medical technician-paramedic, ambulance
operator, or other member of an emergency medical service that is owned or
operated by a political subdivision or a private entity;
      (6)   The State Fire Marshal, the Chief Deputy State Fire Marshal, or an
assistant state fire marshal;
      (7)   A fire prevention officer of a political subdivision or an arson,
fire, or similar investigator of a political subdivision.
   FEDERALLY-LICENSED FIREARMS DEALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5502.63.
   FIREARM and DANGEROUS ORDNANCE. Have the same meaning as in R.C. § 2923.11.
   FORGE. To fabricate or create, in whole or in part and by any means, any
spurious writing, or to make, execute, alter, complete, reproduce, or otherwise
purport to authenticate any writing, when the writing in fact is not
authenticated by that conduct.
   GAIN ACCESS. To approach, instruct, communicate with, store data in,
retrieve data from, or otherwise make use of any resources of a computer,
computer system, or computer network, or any cable service or cable system both
as defined in R.C. § 2913.04.
   INFORMATION SERVICE.
      (1)   Subject to division (2) of this definition, the offering of a
capability for generating, acquiring, storing, transforming, processing,
retrieving, utilizing, or making available information via telecommunications,
including but not limited to electronic publishing.
      (2)   INFORMATION SERVICE does not include any use of a capability of a
type described in division (1) of this definition for the management, control,
or operation of a telecommunications system or the management of a
telecommunications service.
   INTERNET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 341.42.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   OCCUPIED STRUCTURE. Means any house, building, outbuilding, watercraft,
aircraft, railroad car, truck, trailer, tent, or other structure, vehicle, or
shelter, or any portion thereof, to which any of the following applies:
      (1)   It is maintained as a permanent or temporary dwelling, even though
it is temporarily unoccupied and whether nor not any person is actually
present;
      (2)   At the time, it is occupied as the permanent or temporary
habitation of any person, whether or not any person is actually present;
      (3)   At the time, it is specially adapted for the overnight
accommodation of any person, whether or not any person is actually present;
      (4)   At the time, any person is present or likely to be present in it.
   OWNER. Unless the context requires a different meaning, any person, other
than the actor, who is the owner of, who has possession or control of, or who
has any license or interest in property or services, even though the ownership,
possession, control, license, or interest is unlawful.
   POLICE DOG OR HORSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.321.
   POLITICAL SUBDIVISION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2744.01.
   RENTED PROPERTY. Personal property in which the right of possession and use
of the property is for a short and possibly indeterminate term in return for
consideration; the rentee generally controls the duration of possession of the
property within any applicable minimum or maximum term; and the amount of
consideration is generally determined by the duration of possession of the
property.
   SERVICES. Includes labor, personal services, professional services, rental
services, public utility services including wireless service as defined in R.C.
§ 128.01(F)(1), common carrier services, and food, drink, transportation,
entertainment, and cable television services and, for purposes of R.C. §
2913.04 or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, includes cable
services as defined in that section.
   SLUG. An object that, by virtue of its size, shape, composition, or other
quality, is capable of being inserted or deposited in a coin machine as an
improper substitute for a genuine coin, bill, or token made for that purpose.
   STATE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2744.01.
   TELECOMMUNICATION. The origination, emission, dissemination, transmission,
or reception of data, images, signals, sounds, or other intelligence or
equivalence or intelligence of any nature over any communications system by any
method, including but not limited to a fiber optic, electronic, magnetic,
optical, digital or analog method.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Any instrument, equipment, machine, or other
device that facilitates telecommunication, including but not limited to a
computer, computer network, computer chip, computer circuit, scanner,
telephone, cellular telephone, pager, personal communications device,
transponder, receiver, radio, modem, or device that enables the use of a modem.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. The providing, allowing, facilitating, or
generating of any form of telecommunication through the use of a
telecommunications device over a telecommunications system.
   THEFT OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2911.12, 2911.13,
2911.31, 2911.32, 2913.02, 2913.03, 2913.04, 2913.041, 2913.08, 2913.11,
2913.21, 2913.31, 2913.32, 2913.33, 2913.34, 2913.40, 2913.42, 2913.43,
2913.44, 2913.45, 2913.47, 2913.48, former R.C. § 2913.47 or 2913.48, or R.C. §
2913.51, 2915.05, or 2921.41;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States substantially equivalent to any
section listed in division (1) of this definition, or a violation of R.C. §
2913.41, 2913.81 or 2915.06 as it existed prior to July 1, 1996;
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former municipal ordinance or law
of this or any other state or the United States involving robbery, burglary,
breaking and entering, theft, embezzlement, wrongful conversion, forgery,
counterfeiting, deceit, or fraud;
      (4)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing any offense under division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   UTTER. To issue, publish, transfer, use, put or send into circulation,
deliver, or display.
   WRITING. Any computer software, document, letter, memorandum, note, paper,
plate, data, film, or other thing having in or upon it any written, type-
written, or printed matter, and any token, stamp, seal, credit card, badge,
trademark, label, or other symbol of value, right, privilege, license, or
identification.
(R.C. §§ 2909.01, 2913.01)
§ 131.02 ARSON; DETERMINING PROPERTY VALUE OR AMOUNT OF PHYSICAL HARM.
   (A)   No person, by means of fire or explosion, shall knowingly do any of
the following:
      (1)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
property of another without the other person’s consent;
      (2)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
property of the offender or another, with purpose to defraud;
      (3)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to the
statehouse or a courthouse, school building, or other building or structure
that is owned or controlled by the state, any political subdivision, or any
department, agency, or instrumentality of the state or a political subdivision,
and that is used for public purposes;
      (4)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm, through the
offer or the acceptance of an agreement for hire or other consideration, to any
property of another without the other person’s consent or to any property of
the offender or another with purpose to defraud;
      (5)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any park,
preserve, wildlands, brush-covered land, cut-over land, forest, timberland,
greenlands, woods, or similar real property that is owned or controlled by
another person, the state, or a political subdivision without the consent of
the other person, the state, or the political subdivision;
      (6)   With purpose to defraud, cause, or create a substantial risk of,
physical harm to any park, preserve, wildlands, brush-covered land, cut-over
land, forest, timberland, greenlands, woods, or similar real property that is
owned or controlled by the offender, another person, the state, or a political
subdivision.
   (B)   No person, by means of fire or explosion, shall knowingly do any of
the following:
      (1)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
structure of another that is not an occupied structure;
      (2)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm, through the
offer or the acceptance of an agreement for hire or other consideration, to any
structure of another that is not an occupied structure;
      (3)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
structure that is not an occupied structure and that is in or on any park,
preserve, wildlands, brush-covered land, cut-over land, forest, timberland,
greenlands, woods, or similar real property that is owned or controlled by
another person, the state, or a political subdivision.
   (C)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B)(1)
or (B)(2) of this section that the defendant acted with the consent of the
other person.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B)(3) of
this section that the defendant acted with the consent of the other person, the
state, or the political subdivision.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of arson.
      (2)   A violation of division (A)(1) or (B)(1) of this section is one of
the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(2)(b) of this
section, a misdemeanor of the first degree;
         (b)   If the value of the property or the amount of the physical harm
involved is $1,000 or more, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (3)   A violation of division (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), (A)(5), (A)(6), (B)
(2) or (B)(3) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2909.03)
   (E)   Determining property value or amount of physical harm.
      (1)   The following criteria shall be used in determining the value of
property or amount of physical harm involved in a violation of division (A)(1)
or (B)(1) of this section:
         (a)   If the property is an heirloom, memento, collector's item,
antique, museum piece, manuscript, document, record, or other thing that is
either irreplaceable or is replaceable only on the expenditure of substantial
time, effort, or money, the value of the property or the amount of physical
harm involved is the amount that would compensate the owner for its loss.
         (b)   If the property is not covered under division (B)(1)(a) of this
section, and the physical harm is such that the property can be restored
substantially to its former condition, the amount of physical harm involved is
the reasonable cost of restoring the property.
         (c)   If the property is not covered under division (B)(1)(a) of this
section, and the physical harm is such that the property cannot be restored
substantially to its former condition, the value of the property, in the case
of personal property, is the cost of replacing the property with new property
of like kind and quality, and in the case of real property or real property
fixtures, is the difference in the fair market value of the property
immediately before and immediately after the offense.
      (2)   As used in this section, FAIR MARKET VALUE has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 2913.61.
      (3)   Prima facie evidence of the value of property, as provided in R.C.
§ 2913.61(D), may be used to establish the value of property pursuant to this
section.
(R.C. § 2909.11(B) - (D))
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated arson, felony provisions, see R.C. § 2909.02
   Arson offender registration, see R.C. §§ 2909.13, 2909.14 and 2909.15
   Convicted arsonist to make restitution to public agency, see R.C. § 2929.71
§ 131.03 CRIMINAL DAMAGING OR ENDANGERING; VEHICULAR VANDALISM.
   (A)   Criminal damaging or endangering.
      (1)   No person shall cause or create a substantial risk of physical harm
to any property of another without the other person's consent:
         (a)   Knowingly, by any means; or
         (b)   Recklessly, by means of fire, explosion, flood, poison gas,
poison, radioactive material, caustic or corrosive material, or other
inherently dangerous agency or substance.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (A) is guilty of criminal damaging
or endangering, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If violation of this
division (A) creates a risk of physical harm to any person, criminal damaging
or endangering is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the property involved
in a violation of this division (A) is an aircraft, an aircraft engine,
propeller, appliance, spare part, or any other equipment or implement used or
intended to be used in the operation of an aircraft and if the violation
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, criminal damaging or endangering
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the property
involved in a violation of this division (A) is an aircraft, an aircraft
engine, propeller, appliance, spare part, or any other equipment or implement
used or intended to be used in the operation of an aircraft and if the
violation creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person or if the
property involved in a violation of this division (A) is an occupied aircraft,
criminal damaging or endangering is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2909.06)
   (B)   Vehicular vandalism.
      (1)   As used in this division (B):
         ALLEY, STREET, and VEHICLE. Have the same meanings as in R.C. §
4511.01.
         HIGHWAY. Means any highway as defined in R.C. § 4511.01 or any lane,
road, street, alley, bridge, or overpass.
         VESSEL and WATERS IN THIS STATE. Have the same meanings as in R.C. §
1546.01.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly, and by any means, drop or throw any
object at, onto, or in the path of any of the following:
         (a)   Any vehicle on a highway;
         (b)   Any boat or vessel on any of the waters in this state.
      (3)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of vehicular
vandalism. Except as otherwise provided in this division (B)(3), vehicular
vandalism is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation of this
division (B) creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person or the
violation of this division (B) causes serious physical harm to property,
vehicular vandalism is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
If the violation of this division (B) causes physical harm to any person or
serious physical harm to any person, vehicular vandalism is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.09)
Statutory reference:
   Disrupting public services, felony offense, see R.C. § 2909.04
   Railroad grade crossing device vandalism, see R.C. § 2909.101
   Railroad vandalism, see R.C. § 2909.10
   Vandalism, felony offense, see R.C. § 2909.05
§ 131.04 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   (A)   No person shall:
      (1)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage,
destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with the either of the following:
         (a)   The property of another;
         (b)   One’s own residential real property with the purpose to decrease
the value of or enjoyment of the residential real property, if both of the
following apply:
            1.   The residential real property is subject to a mortgage.
            2.   The person has been served with a summons and complaint in a
pending residential mortgage loan foreclosure action relating to that real
property. As used in this division, “pending” includes the time between
judgment entry and confirmation of sale.
      (2)   With purpose to interfere with the use or enjoyment of property of
another, employ a tear gas device, stink bomb, smoke generator, or other device
releasing a substance that is harmful or offensive to persons exposed, or that
tends to cause public alarm;
      (3)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage,
destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with a bench mark, triangulation
station, boundary marker, or other survey station, monument, or marker;
      (4)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage,
destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with any safety device, the property of
another, or the property of the offender when required or placed for the safety
of others, so as to destroy or diminish its effectiveness or availability for
its intended purpose;
      (5)   With purpose to interfere with the use or enjoyment of the property
of another, set a fire on the land of another or place personal property that
has been set on fire on the land of another, which fire or personal property is
outside and apart from any building, other structure, or personal property that
is on that land;
      (6)   Without privilege to do so, and with intent to impair the
functioning of any computer, computer system, computer network, computer
software, or computer program, knowingly do any of the following:
         (a)   In any manner or by any means, including but not limited to,
computer hacking, alter, damage, destroy, or modify a computer, computer
system, computer network, computer software, or computer program or data
contained in a computer, computer system, computer network, computer software,
or computer program;
         (b)   Introduce a computer contaminant into a computer, computer
system, computer network, computer software, or computer program.
      (7)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly destroy or improperly tamper
with a critical infrastructure facility.
   (B)   As used in this section:
      CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2911.21.
      IMPROPERLY TAMPER. Means to change the physical location or the physical
condition of the property.
      SAFETY DEVICE. Means any fire extinguisher, fire hose, or fire axe, or
any fire escape, emergency exit, or emergency escape equipment, or any life
line, life-saving ring, life preserver, or life boat or raft, or any alarm,
light, flare, signal, sign, or notice intended to warn of danger or emergency,
or intended for other safety purposes, or any guard railing or safety
barricade, or any traffic sign or signal, or any railroad grade crossing sign,
signal, or gate, or any first aid or survival equipment, or any other device,
apparatus, or equipment intended for protecting or preserving the safety of
persons or property.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal mischief,
and shall be punished as provided in division (C)(2), (C)(3), or (C)(4) of this
section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the third degree. Except as otherwise provided
in this division, if the violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
or (A)(5) of this section creates a risk of physical harm to any person,
criminal mischief committed in violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3),
(A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
property involved in the violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
or (A)(5) of this section is an aircraft, an aircraft engine, propeller,
appliance, spare part, fuel, lubricant, hydraulic fluid, any other equipment,
implement, or material used or intended to be used in the operation of an
aircraft, or any cargo carried or intended to be carried in an aircraft and if
the violation creates any risk of physical harm to any person, or if the
aircraft in question is an occupied aircraft, criminal mischief committed in
violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (A)(6) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the value of the computer, computer system, computer
network, computer software, computer program, or data involved in the violation
of division (A)(6) of this section or the loss to the victim resulting from the
violation is $1,000 or more, or if the computer, computer system, computer
network, computer software, computer program, or data involved in the violation
of division (A)(6) is used or intended to be used in the operation of an
aircraft and the violation creates any risk of physical harm to any person, or
if the aircraft in question is an occupied aircraft, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (A)(6) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Criminal mischief committed in violation of division (A)(7) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.07)
§ 131.05 DAMAGING OR ENDANGERING AIRCRAFT OR AIRPORT OPERATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AIR GUN. A hand pistol or rifle that propels its projectile by means of
releasing compressed air, carbon dioxide, or other gas.
      AIRPORT OPERATIONAL SURFACE. Any surface of land or water that is
developed, posted, or marked so as to give an observer reasonable notice that
the surface is designed and developed for the purpose of storing, parking,
taxiing, or operating aircraft, or any surface of land or water that is
actually being used for any of those purposes.
      FIREARM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2923.11.
      SPRING-OPERATED GUN. A hand pistol or rifle that propels a projectile not
less than four or more than five millimeters in diameter by means of a spring.
   (B)   No person shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly throw an object at, or drop an object upon, any moving
aircraft.
      (2)   Knowingly shoot with a bow and arrow, or knowingly discharge a
firearm, air gun, or spring-operated gun, at or toward any aircraft.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly or recklessly shoot with a bow and arrow, or
shall knowingly or recklessly discharge a firearm, air gun, or spring-operated
gun, upon or over any airport operational surface. This division does not apply
to the following:
      (1)   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or of the
United States, or a law enforcement officer, authorized to discharge firearms
and acting within the scope of his or her duties.
      (2)   A person who, with the consent of the owner or operator of the
airport operational surface or the authorized agent of either, is lawfully
engaged in any hunting or sporting activity or is otherwise lawfully
discharging a firearm.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of endangering
aircraft, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation creates any risk
of physical harm to any person, or if the aircraft that is the subject of the
violation is occupied, endangering aircraft is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of endangering
airport operations, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the violation
creates a risk of physical harm to any person or substantial risk of serious
harm to any person, endangering airport operations is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law. In addition to any other penalty or sanction
imposed for the violation, the hunting license or permit of a person who
violates division (C) of this section while hunting shall be suspended or
revoked pursuant to R.C. § 1533.68.
(R.C. § 2909.08(A) - (E))
§ 131.06 CRIMINAL TRESPASS; AGGRAVATED TRESPASS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly enter or remain on the land or premises of another;
      (2)   Knowingly enter or remain on the land or premises of another, the
use of which is lawfully restricted to certain persons, purposes, modes, or
hours, when the offender knows the offender is in violation of any such
restriction or is reckless in that regard;
      (3)   Recklessly enter or remain on the land or premises of another, as
to which notice against unauthorized access or presence is given by actual
communication to the offender, or in a manner prescribed by law, or by posting
in a manner reasonably calculated to come to the attention of potential
intruders, or by fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to restrict
access;
      (4)   Being on the land or premises of another, negligently fail or
refuse to leave upon being notified by signage posted in a conspicuous place or
otherwise being notified to do so by the owner or occupant, or the agent or
servant of either;
      (5)   Knowingly enter or remain on a critical infrastructure facility.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that the land or
premises involved was owned, controlled, or in custody of a public agency.
   (C)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that the offender was
authorized to enter or remain on the land or premises involved, when the
authorization was secured by deception.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal trespass.
Criminal trespass in violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), or (A)(4) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Criminal trespass in
violation of division (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28, if the person, in committing the
violation of this section, used a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-
purpose vehicle, the court shall impose a fine of two times the usual amount
imposed for the violation.
      (3)   If an offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to two or more violations of this section, R.C. § 2911.21 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, and the offender, in committing each violation,
used a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle, the court,
in addition to or independent of all other penalties imposed for the violation,
may impound the certificate of registration of that snowmobile or off-highway
motorcycle or the certificate of registration and license plate of that all-
purpose vehicle for not less than 60 days. In such a case, R.C. § 4519.47
applies.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, if the
offender, in committing the violation of this section, used an all-purpose
vehicle, the Clerk of the Court shall pay the fine imposed pursuant to this
section to the State Recreational Vehicle Fund created by R.C. § 4519.11.
   (F)   As used in divisions (A) through (E) of this section:
      ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLE, OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE, and SNOWMOBILE. Have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 4519.01.
      CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY. Means:
         (a)   One of the following, if completely enclosed by a fence or other
physical barrier that is obviously designed to exclude intruders, or if clearly
marked with signs that are reasonably likely to come to the attention of
potential intruders and that indicate entry is forbidden without site
authorization:
            1.   A petroleum or alumina refinery;
            2.   An electric generating facility, substation, switching
station, electrical control center, or electric transmission and distribution
lines and associated equipment;
            3.   A chemical, polymer, or rubber manufacturing facility;
            4.   A water intake structure, water treatment facility, waste
water facility, drainage facility, water management facility, or any similar
water or sewage treatment system and its water and sewage piping;
            5.   A natural gas company facility or interstate natural gas
pipeline, including a pipeline interconnection, a natural gas compressor
station and associated facilities, city gate or town border station, metering
station, above-ground piping, regulator station, valve site, delivery station,
fabricated assembly, or any other part of a natural gas storage facility
involved in the gathering, storage, transmission, or distribution of gas;
            6.   A telecommunications central switching office or remote
switching facility or an equivalent network facility that serves a similar
purpose;
            7.   Wireline or wireless telecommunications infrastructure,
including telecommunications towers and telephone poles and lines, including
fiber optic lines;
            8.   A port, trucking terminal, or other freight transportation
facility;
            9.   A gas processing plant, including a plant used in the
processing, treatment, or fractionation of natural gas or natural gas liquids;
            10.   A transmission facility used by a federally licensed radio or
television station;
            11.   A steel-making facility that uses an electric arc furnace to
make steel;
            12.   A facility identified and regulated by the United States
Department of Homeland Security’s Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards
Program under 6 C.F.R. part 27;
            13.   A dam that is regulated by the state or federal government;
            14.   A crude oil or refined products storage and distribution
facility, including valve sites, pipeline interconnections, pump station,
metering station, below- or above- ground pipeline, or piping and truck loading
or off-loading facility;
            15.   A video service network and broadband infrastructure,
including associated buildings and facilities, video service headends, towers,
utility poles, and utility lines such as fiber optic lines. As used in this
division, “video service network” has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21.
            16.   Any above-ground portion of an oil, gas, hazardous liquid or
chemical pipeline, tank, or other storage facility;
            17.   Any above-ground portion of a well, well pad, or production
operation;
            18.   A laydown area or construction site for pipe and other
equipment intended for use on an interstate or intrastate natural gas or crude
oil pipeline;
            19.   Any mining operation, including any processing equipment,
batching operation, or support facility for that mining operation.
         (b)   With respect to a video service network or broadband or wireless
telecommunications infrastructure, the above-ground portion of a facility
installed in a public right-of- way on a utility pole or in a conduit;
         (c)   Any railroad property;
         (d)   An electronic asset of any of the following:
            1.   An electric light company that is a public utility under R.C.
§ 4905.02;
            2.   An electric cooperative, as defined in R.C. § 4928.01;
            3.   A municipal electric utility, as defined in R.C. § 4928.01;
            4.   A natural gas company that is a public utility under R.C. §
4905.02;
            5.   A telephone company that is a public utility under R.C. §
4905.02;
            6.   A video service provider, including a cable operator, as those
terms are defined in R.C. § 1332.21.
      ELECTRONIC ASSET. Includes, but is not limited to, the hardware,
software, and data of a programmable electronic device; all communications,
operations, and customer data networks; and the contents of those data
networks.
      LAND or PREMISES. Includes any land, building, structure, or place
belonging to, controlled by, or in custody of another, and any separate
enclosure or room, or portion thereof.
      PRODUCTION OPERATION, WELL, and WELL PAD. Have the same meanings as in
R.C. § 1509.01.
(R.C. § 2911.21)
   (G)   Aggravated trespass.
      (1)   (a)   No person shall enter or remain on the land or premises of
another with purpose to commit on that land or those premises a misdemeanor,
the elements of which involve causing physical harm to another person or
causing another person to believe that the offender will cause physical harm to
that person.
         (b)   No person shall enter or remain on a critical infrastructure
facility with purpose to destroy or tamper with the facility.
      (2)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of aggravated trespass.
Aggravated trespass in violation of division (G)(1)(a) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. Aggravated trespass in violation of division
(G)(1)(b) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (3)   As used in this division (G), CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 2911.21.
(R.C. § 2911.211)
   (H)   Criminal trespass on a place of public amusement.
      (1)   As used in this division (H), PLACE OF PUBLIC AMUSEMENT means a
stadium, theater, or other facility, whether licensed or not, at which a live
performance, sporting event, or other activity takes place for entertainment of
the public and to which access is made available to the public, regardless of
whether admission is charged.
      (2)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly enter or
remain on any restricted portion of a place of public amusement and, as a
result of that conduct, interrupt or cause the delay of the live performance,
sporting event, or other activity taking place at the place of public amusement
after a printed written notice has been given as provided in division (H)(4)(a)
of this section that the general public is restricted from access to that
restricted portion of the place of public amusement. A restricted portion of a
place of public amusement may include, but is not limited to, a playing field,
an athletic surface, or a stage located at the place of public amusement.
      (3)   An owner or lessee of a place of public amusement, an agent of the
owner or lessee, or a performer or participant at a place of public amusement
may use reasonable force to restrain and remove a person from a restricted
portion of the place of public amusement if the person enters or remains on the
restricted portion of the place of public amusement and, as a result of that
conduct, interrupts or causes the delay of the live performance, sporting
event, or other activity taking place at the place of public amusement. This
division does not provide immunity from criminal liability for any use of force
beyond reasonable force by an owner or lessee of a place of public amusement,
an agent of either the owner or lessee, or a performer or participant at a
place of public amusement.
      (4)   (a)   Notice has been given that the general public is restricted
from access to a portion of a place of public amusement if a printed written
notice of the restricted access has been conspicuously posted or exhibited at
the entrance to that portion of the place of public amusement. If a printed
written notice is posted or exhibited as described in this division regarding a
portion of a place of public amusement, in addition to that posting or
exhibition, notice that the general public is restricted from access to that
portion of the place of public amusement also may be given, but is not required
to be given, by either of the following means:
            1.   By notifying the person personally, either orally or in
writing, that access to that portion of the place of public amusement is
restricted;
            2.   By broadcasting over the public address system of the place of
public amusement an oral warning that access to that portion of the place of
public amusement is restricted.
         (b)   If notice that the general public is restricted from access to a
portion of a place of public amusement is provided by the posting or exhibition
of a printed written notice as described in division (H)(4)(a) of this section,
the municipality, in a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (H)(2)
of this section, is not required to prove that the defendant received actual
notice that the general public is restricted from access to a portion of a
place of public amusement.
      (5)   (a)   Whoever violates division (H)(2) of this section is guilty of
criminal trespass on a place of public amusement, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
         (b)   In addition to any jail term, fine, or other sentence, penalty,
or sanction it imposes upon the offender pursuant to division (H)(5)(a) of this
section, a court may require an offender who violates this section to perform
not less than 30 and not more than 120 hours of supervised community service
work.
(R.C. § 2911.23)
Cross-reference:
   Jurisdictional limitation on Mayor regarding violations of division (F) of
this section, see §
33.01(E)
   Violation of protection orders, see §
135.23
§ 131.07 TAMPERING WITH COIN MACHINES.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to commit theft or to defraud, shall knowingly
enter, force an entrance into, tamper with, or insert any part of an instrument
into any coin machine.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of tampering with coin
machines, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a violation of this section or of any theft offense as
defined in R.C. § 2913.01, tampering with coin machines is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2911.32)
§ 131.08 THEFT.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to deprive the owner of property or services,
shall knowingly obtain or exert control over either the property or services in
any of the following ways:
      (1)   Without the consent of the owner or person authorized to give
consent;
      (2)   Beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of the owner or
person authorized to give consent;
      (3)   By deception;
      (4)   By threat;
      (5)   By intimidation.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of theft. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, a violation of this section is misdemeanor
theft, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the elements set forth in R.C. §
2913.02(B) for felony theft, grand theft, or aggravated theft are met, then a
violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (2)   In addition to the penalties described in division (B)(1) of this
section, if the offender committed the violation by causing a motor vehicle to
leave the premises of an establishment at which gasoline is offered for retail
sale without the offender making full payment for gasoline that was dispensed
into the fuel tank of the motor vehicle or into another container, the court
may do one of the following:
         (a)   Unless division (B)(2)(b) of this section applies, suspend for
not more than six months the offenders driver’s license, probationary driver’s
license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or
nonresident operating privilege;
         (b)   If the offender’s driver’s license, probationary driver’s
license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or
nonresident operating privilege has previously been suspended pursuant to
division (B)(2)(a) of this section, or any other substantially equivalent state
or local law, impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s license,
permit, or privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7), provided
that the suspension shall be at least six months;
         (c)   The court, in lieu of suspending the offender’s driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, probationary driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or nonresident operating privilege pursuant to division (B)
(2)(a) or (B)(2)(b) of this section, instead may require the offender to
perform community service for a number of hours determined by the court.
      (3)   In addition to the penalties described in division (B)(1) of this
section, if the offender committed the violation by stealing rented property or
rental services, the court may order that the offender make restitution
pursuant to R.C. § 2929.18 or R.C. § 2929.28. Restitution may include, but is
not limited to, the cost of repairing or replacing the stolen property, or the
cost of repairing the stolen property and any loss of revenue resulting from
deprivation of the property due to theft of rental services that is less than
or equal to the actual value of the property at the time it was rented.
Evidence of intent to commit theft of rented property or rental services shall
be determined pursuant to the provisions of R.C. § 2913.72.
   (C)   The sentencing court that suspends an offender’s license, permit, or
nonresident operating privilege under division (B)(2) of this section may grant
the offender limited driving privileges during the period of the suspension in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 4510.
(R.C. § 2913.02)
Statutory reference:
   Felony theft provisions, see R.C. § 2913.02(B)
§ 131.09 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF A VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly use or operate an aircraft, motor vehicle,
motorcycle, motorboat, or other motor-propelled vehicle without the consent of
the owner or person authorized to give consent.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly use or operate an aircraft, motor vehicle,
motorboat, or other motor- propelled vehicle without the consent of the owner
or person authorized to give consent, and either remove it from this state, or
keep possession of it for more than 48 hours.
   (C)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under this section:
      (1)   At the time of the alleged offense, the actor, though mistaken,
reasonably believed that he or she was authorized to use or operate the
property.
      (2)   At the time of the alleged offense, the actor reasonably believed
that the owner or person empowered to give consent would authorize the actor to
use or operate the property.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unauthorized use of a
vehicle.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (D)(1), a violation
of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled adult and if the victim
incurs a loss as a result of the violation, a violation of division (A) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.03)
Statutory reference:
   Theft offense involving a motor vehicle, offender to pay towing and storage
fees, see R.C. § 2913.82
§ 131.10 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF PROPERTY, INCLUDING TELECOMMUNICATION PROPERTY AND
COMPUTERS; POSSESSION OF MUNICIPAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly use or operate the property of another
without the consent of the owner or person authorized to give consent.
   (B)   No person, in any manner and by any means, including but not limited
to computer hacking, shall knowingly gain access to, attempt to gain access to,
or cause access to be gained to any computer, computer system, computer
network, cable service, cable system, telecommunications device,
telecommunications service, or information service without the consent of, or
beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of, the owner of the
computer, computer system, computer network, cable service, cable system,
telecommunications device, telecommunications service, or information service
or other person authorized to give consent.
   (C)   Except as permitted under R.C. § 5503.101, no person shall knowingly
gain access to, attempt to gain access to, cause access to be granted to, or
disseminate information gained from access to the law enforcement automated
database system created pursuant to R.C. § 5503.10 without the consent of, or
beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of, the chair of the Law
Enforcement Automated Data System Steering Committee.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly gain access to, attempt to gain access to,
cause access to be granted to, or disseminate information gained from access to
the Ohio law enforcement gateway established and operated pursuant to R.C. §
109.57(C)(1) without the consent of, or beyond the scope of the express or
implied consent of, the Superintendent of the Bureau of Criminal Identification
and Investigation.
   (E)   The affirmative defenses contained in R.C. § 2913.03(C) are
affirmative defenses to a charge under this section.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of property. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
unauthorized use of property is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (1)   If unauthorized use of property is committed for the purpose of
devising or executing a scheme to defraud or to obtain property or services,
unauthorized use of property is whichever of the following is applicable:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided below, unauthorized use of property
is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the value of the property or services or the loss to the
victim is $1,000 or more, it is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (2)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled
adult, unauthorized use of property is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of computer, cable, or telecommunication property, a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (H)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of the law enforcement automated database system, a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (I)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of the Ohio law enforcement gateway, a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
   (J)   As used in this section:
      CABLE OPERATOR means any person or group of persons that does either of
the following:
         (a)   Provides cable service over a cable system and directly through
one or more affiliates owns a significant interest in that cable system;
         (b)   Otherwise controls or is responsible for, through any
arrangement, the management and operation of a cable system.
      CABLE SERVICE means any of the following:
         (a)   The one-way transmission to subscribers of video programming or
of information that a cable operator makes available to all subscribers
generally;
         (b)   Subscriber interaction, if any, that is required for the
selection or use of video programming or of information that a cable operator
makes available to all subscribers generally, both as described in division (a)
of this definition;
         (c)   Any cable television service.
      CABLE SYSTEM means any facility, consisting of a set of closed
transmission paths and associated signal generation, reception, and control
equipment that is designed to provide cable service that includes video
programming and that is provided to multiple subscribers within a community.
CABLE SYSTEM does not include any of the following:
         (a)   Any facility that serves only to retransmit the television
signals of one or more television broadcast stations;
         (b)   Any facility that serves subscribers without using any public
right-of-way;
         (c)   Any facility of a common carrier that, under 47 U.S.C. § 522(7)
(c), is excluded from the term “cable system” as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(7);
         (d)   Any open video system that complies with 47 U.S.C. § 573;
         (e)   Any facility of any electric utility used solely for operating
its electric utility system.
(R.C. § 2913.04)
   (K)   Possession of municipal property.
      (1)   No person shall, without being authorized, have in his or her
control or possession any equipment, tools, implements or other property
belonging to the municipality.
(R.C. § 5589.12)
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (K) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 5589.99(B))
Statutory reference:
   Telecommunications: fraud and unlawful use of a device, felony offenses, see
R.C. §§ 2913.05 and 2913.06
§ 131.11 PASSING BAD CHECKS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CHECK. Includes any form of debit from a demand deposit account,
including but not limited to any of the following:
         (a)   A check, bill of exchange, draft, order of withdrawal, or
similar negotiable or non- negotiable instrument;
         (b)   An electronic check, electronic transaction, debit card
transaction, check card transaction, substitute check, web check, or any form
of automated clearing house transaction.
      ISSUE A CHECK. Causing any form of debit from a demand deposit account.
   (B)   No person, with purpose to defraud, shall issue or transfer or cause
to be issued or transferred a check or other negotiable instrument, knowing
that it will be dishonored or knowing that a person has ordered or will order
stop payment on the check or other negotiable instrument.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, a person who issues or transfers a check
or other negotiable instrument is presumed to know that it will be dishonored
if either of the following occurs:
      (1)   The drawer has no account with the drawee at the time of issue or
the stated date, whichever is later.
      (2)   The check or other negotiable instrument was properly refused
payment for insufficient funds upon presentment within 30 days after issue or
the stated date, whichever is later, and the liability of the drawer, indorser,
or any party who may be liable thereon is not discharged by payment or
satisfaction within ten days after receiving notice of dishonor.
   (D)   In determining the value of the payment for purposes of division (E)
of this section, the court may aggregate all checks and other negotiable
instruments that the offender issued or transferred or
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of passing bad checks. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, passing bad checks is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the check or checks or other negotiable instrument or
instruments are issued or transferred to a single vendor or single other person
for the payment of $1,000 or more, or if the check or checks or other
negotiable instrument or instruments are issued or transferred to multiple
vendors or persons for the payment of $1,500 or more, passing bad checks is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.11)
§ 131.12 MISUSE OF CREDIT CARDS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Practice deception for the purpose of procuring the issuance of a
credit card, when a credit card is issued in actual reliance thereon;
      (2)   Knowingly buy or sell a credit card from or to a person other than
the issuer ;
      (3)   As an officer, employee, or appointee of a political subdivision or
as a public servant as defined under R.C. § 2921.01, knowingly misuse a credit
card account held by a political subdivision.
   (B)   No person, with purpose to defraud, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Obtain control over a credit card as security for a debt;
      (2)   Obtain property or services by the use of a credit card, in one or
more transactions, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the card
has expired or been revoked, or was obtained, is retained, or is being used in
violation of law;
      (3)   Furnish property or services upon presentation of a credit card,
knowing that the card is being used in violation of law;
      (4)   Represent or cause to be represented to the issuer of a credit card
that property or services have been furnished, knowing that the representation
is false.
   (C)   No person, with purpose to violate this section, shall receive,
possess, control, or dispose of a credit card.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of misuse of credit cards.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) of this section, a
violation of division (A), (B)(1), or (C) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division or division (D)(3) of
this section, a violation of division (B)(2), (B)(3), or (B)(4) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the cumulative retail value of the
property and services involved in one or more violations of division (B)(2),
(B)(3), or (B)(4) of this section which violations involve one or more credit
card accounts and occur within a period of 90 consecutive days commencing on
the date of the first violation, is $1,000 or more, misuse of credit cards is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled
adult, and if the offense involves a violation of division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of
this section, misuse of credit cards is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.21)
§ 131.13 MAKING OR USING SLUGS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Insert or deposit a slug in a coin machine, with purpose to
defraud;
      (2)   Make, possess, or dispose of a slug, with purpose of enabling
another to defraud by inserting or depositing it in a coin machine.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making or using slugs, a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2913.33)
§ 131.14 PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE OF PURPOSE TO DEFRAUD.
   In a prosecution of a person for a theft offense that alleges that the
person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she was facilitating a
fraud, hired or rented an aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat,
sailboat, camper, trailer, horse, buggy, or other property or equipment, kept
or operated any of the same that has been hired or rented, or engaged
accommodations at a hotel, motel, inn, campground, or other hostelry, it is
prima facie evidence of purpose to defraud if the person did any of the
following:
   (A)   Used deception to induce the rental agency to furnish the person with
the aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat, sailboat, camper, trailer,
horse, buggy, or other property or equipment, or used deception to induce the
hostelry to furnish the person with accommodations;
   (B)   Hired or rented any aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat,
sailboat, camper, trailer, horse, buggy, or other property or equipment, or
engaged accommodations, knowing that he or she is without sufficient means to
pay the hire or rental;
   (C)   Absconded without paying the hire or rental;
   (D)   Knowingly failed to pay the hire or rental as required by the contract
of hire or rental, without reasonable excuse for the failure;
   (E)   Knowingly failed to return hired or rented property as required by the
contract of hire or rental, without reasonable excuse for the failure.
(R.C. § 2913.41)
§ 131.15 TAMPERING WITH RECORDS.
   (A)   No person, knowing that he or she has no privilege to do so, and with
purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she is facilitating a fraud, shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Falsify, destroy, remove, conceal, alter, deface, or mutilate any
writing, computer software, data, or record;
      (2)   Utter any writing or record, knowing it to have been tampered with
as provided in division (A)(1) of this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of tampering with records.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) of this section, if the
offense does not involve data or computer software, tampering with records is
whichever of the following is applicable:
         (a)   If division (B)(1)(b) of this section does not apply, it is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the writing or record is a will unrevoked at the time of the
offense, it is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) of this section, if the
offense involves a violation of division (A) of this section involving data or
computer software, tampering with records is whichever of the following is
applicable:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2)(b) of this
section, it is a misdemeanor of the first degree;
         (b)   If the value of the data or computer software involved in the
offense or the loss to the victim is $1,000 or more or if the offense is
committed for the purpose of devising or executing a scheme
to defraud or to obtain property or services and the value of the property or
services or the loss to the victim is $7,500 or more, it is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the writing, data, computer software, or record is kept by or
belongs to a local, state, or federal governmental entity, it is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.42)
§ 131.16 SECURING WRITINGS BY DECEPTION.
   (A)   No person, by deception, shall cause another to execute any writing
that disposes of or encumbers property, or by which a pecuniary obligation is
incurred.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of securing writings by
deception. Except as otherwise provided in this division, securing writings by
deception is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the property or
the obligation involved is $1,000 or more, securing writings by deception is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate to state law. If the victim of the
offense is an elderly person, disabled adult, active duty service member, or
spouse of an active duty service member, securing writings by deception is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.43)
§ 131.17 DEFRAUDING CREDITORS.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud one or more of his or her
creditors, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Remove, conceal, destroy, encumber, convey, or otherwise deal with
any of his or her property;
      (2)   Misrepresent or refuse to disclose to a fiduciary appointed to
administer or manage his or her affairs or estate, the existence, amount, or
location of any of his or her property, or any other information regarding the
property which he or she is legally required to furnish to the fiduciary.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of defrauding creditors.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, defrauding creditors is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the property involved is
$1,000 or more, defrauding creditors is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.45)
§ 131.18 RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall receive, retain, or dispose of property of another
knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the property has been
obtained through commission of a theft offense.
   (B)   It is not a defense to a charge of receiving stolen property in
violation of this section that the property was obtained by means other than
through the commission of a theft offense if the property was explicitly
represented to the accused person as being obtained through the commission of a
theft offense.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of receiving stolen property.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, receiving stolen property is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If any of the following criteria are met, then
a violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law:
      (1)   The value of the property involved is $1,000 or more;
      (2)   The property involved is any of the property listed in R.C. §
2913.71;
      (3)   The property involved is a firearm or dangerous ordnance, as
defined in R.C. § 2923.11;
      (4)   The property involved is a motor vehicle as defined in R.C. §
4501.01;
      (5)   The property involved is any dangerous drug, as defined in R.C. §
4729.01; or
      (6)   The property involved in violation of this section is a special
purchase article as defined in R.C. § 4737.04 or a bulk merchandise container
as defined in R.C. § 4737.012.
(R.C. § 2913.51)
§ 131.19 VALUE OF STOLEN PROPERTY.
   (A)   If more than one item of property or services is involved in a theft
offense or in a violation of R.C. § 1716.14(A) involving a victim who is an
elderly person or disabled adult, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, the value of the property or services involved for the purpose of
determining the value as required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value
of all property or services involved in the offense.
   (B)   (1)   When a series of offenses under R.C. § 2913.02, or a series of
violations of, attempts to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate, or
complicity in violations of R.C. § 1716.14(A), R.C. § 2913.02, 2913.03, or
2913.04, R.C. § 2913.21(B)(1) or (B)(2), or R.C. § 2913.31 or 2913.43 involving
a victim who is an elderly person or disabled adult, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, is committed by the
offender in the offender's same employment, capacity, or relationship to
another, all of those offenses shall be tried as a single offense. When a
series of offenses under R.C. § 2913.02, or a series of violations of, attempts
to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate, or complicity in violations
of R.C. § 2913.02 or 2913.43 involving a victim who is an active duty service
member or spouse of an active duty service member, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, is committed by the
offender in the offender’s same employment, capacity, or relationship to
another, all of those offenses shall be tried as a single offense. The value of
the property or services involved in the series of offenses for the purpose of
determining the value as required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value
of all property and services involved in all offenses in the series.
      (2)   If an offender commits a series of offenses under R.C. § 2913.02
that involves a common course of conduct to defraud multiple victims, all of
the offenses may be tried as a single offense. If an offender is being tried
for the commission of a series of violations of, attempts to commit a violation
of, conspiracies to violate, or complicity in violations of R.C. § 1716.14(A),
R.C. § 2913.02, 2913.03, or 2913.04, R.C. § 2913.21(B)(1) or (B)(2), or R.C. §
2913.31 or 2913.43, whether committed against one victim or more than one
victim, involving a victim who is an elderly person or disabled adult, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, pursuant
to a scheme or course of conduct, all of those offenses may be tried as a
single offense. If an offender is being tried for the commission of a series of
violations of, attempts to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate, or
complicity in violations of R.C. § 2913.02 or 2913.43, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, whether committed
against one victim or more than one victim, involving a victim who is an active
duty service member or spouse of an active duty service member pursuant to a
scheme or course of conduct, all of those offenses may be tried as a single
offense. If the offenses are tried as a single offense, the value of the
property or services involved for the purpose of determining the value as
required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value of all property and
services involved in all of the offenses in the course of conduct.
      (3)   When a series of two or more offenses under R.C. § 2913.40,
2913.48, or 2921.41 is committed by the offender in the offender’s same
employment, capacity, or relationship to another, all of those offenses may be
tried as a single offense. If the offenses are tried as a single offense, the
value of the property or services involved for the purpose of determining the
value as required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value of all property
and services involved in all of the offenses in the series of two or more
offenses.
      (4)   In prosecuting a single offense under division (B)(1), (B)(2) or
(B)(3) of this section, it is not necessary to separately allege and prove each
offense in the series. Rather, it is sufficient to allege and prove that the
offender, within a given span of time, committed one or more theft offenses or
violations of R.C. § 2913.40, 2913.48, or 2921.41 in the offender's same
employment, capacity, or relationship to another as described in division (B)
(1) or (B)(3) of this section, or committed one or more theft offenses that
involve a common course of conduct to defraud multiple victims or a scheme or
course of conduct as described in division (B)(2) of this section. While it is
not necessary to separately allege and prove each offense in the series in
order to prosecute a single offense under division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of
this section, it remains necessary in prosecuting them as a single offense to
prove the aggregate value of the property or services in order to meet the
requisite statutory offense level sought by the prosecution.
   (C)   The following criteria shall be used in determining the value of
property or services involved in a theft offense:
      (1)   The value of an heirloom, memento, collector's item, antique,
museum piece, manuscript, document, record, or other thing that has intrinsic
worth to its owner and that either is irreplaceable or is replaceable only on
the expenditure of substantial time, effort, or money, is the amount which
would compensate the owner for its loss.
      (2)   The value of personal effects and household goods, and of
materials, supplies, equipment, and fixtures used in the profession, business,
trade, occupation, or avocation of its owner, which property is not covered
under division (C)(1) of this section, and which retains substantial utility
for its purpose regardless of its age or condition, is the cost of replacing
such property with new property of like kind and quality.
      (3)   The value of any real or personal property that is not covered
under division (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section, and the value of services, is
the fair market value of the property or services. As used in this section,
FAIR MARKET VALUE is the money consideration which a buyer would give and a
seller would accept for property or services, assuming that the buyer is
willing to buy and the seller is willing to sell, that both are fully informed
as to all facts material to the transaction, and that neither is under any
compulsion to act.
   (D)   Without limitation on the evidence which may be used to establish the
value of property or services involved in a theft offense:
      (1)   When the property involved is personal property held for sale at
wholesale or retail, the price at which the property was held for sale is prima
facie evidence of its value.
      (2)   When the property involved is a security or commodity traded on an
exchange, the closing price or, if there is no closing price, the asked price,
given in the latest marked quotation prior to the offense, is prima facie
evidence of the value of the security or commodity.
      (3)   When the property involved is livestock, poultry, or raw
agricultural products for which a local market price is available, the latest
local market price prior to the offense is prima facie evidence of the value of
the livestock, poultry, or products.
      (4)   When the property involved is a negotiable instrument, the face
value is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (5)   When the property involved is a warehouse receipt, bill of lading,
pawn ticket, claim check, or other instrument entitling the holder or bearer to
receive property, the face value or, if there is no face value, the value of
the property covered by the instrument less any payment necessary to receive
the property, is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (6)   When the property involved is a ticket of admission, ticket for
transportation, coupon, token, or other instrument entitling the holder or
bearer to receive property or services, the face value or, if there is no face
value, the value of the property or services which may be received by the
instrument is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (7)   When the services involved are gas, electricity, water, telephone,
transportation, shipping, or other services for which the rate is established
by law, the duly established rate is prima facie evidence of the value of the
services.
      (8)   When the services involved are services for which the rate is not
established by law, and the offender has been notified prior to the offense of
the rate for the services, either in writing, or orally, or by posting in a
manner reasonably calculated to come to the attention of potential offenders,
the rate contained in the notice is prima facie evidence of the value of the
services.
(R.C. § 2913.61(B) - (E))
§ 131.20 DEGREE OF OFFENSE WHEN CERTAIN PROPERTY INVOLVED.
   Regardless of the value of the property involved, and regardless of whether
the offender previously has been convicted of a theft offense, a violation of §
131.08 or §
131.18 is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the property
involved is any of the following:
   (A)   A credit card;
   (B)   A printed form for a check or other negotiable instrument, that on its
face identifies the drawer or maker for whose use it is designed or identifies
the account on which it is to be drawn, and that has not been executed by the
drawer or maker or on which the amount is blank;
   (C)   A motor vehicle identification license plate as prescribed by R.C. §
4503.22, a temporary motor vehicle license registration as prescribed by R.C. §
4503.182, or any comparable temporary motor vehicle license registration as
prescribed by the applicable law of another state or the United States;
   (D)   A blank form for a certificate of title or a manufacturer's or
importer's certificate to a motor vehicle, as prescribed by R.C. § 4505.07;
   (E)   A blank form for any license listed in R.C. § 4507.01.
(R.C. § 2913.71)
§ 131.21 INJURING VINES, BUSHES, TREES, OR CROPS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall recklessly cut down,
destroy, girdle, or otherwise injure a vine, bush, shrub, sapling, tree, or
crop standing or growing on the land of another or upon public land.
   (B)   In addition to the penalty provided in division (C) of this section,
whoever violates this section is liable in treble damages for the injury
caused.
(R.C. § 901.51)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 901.99(A))
§ 131.22 DETENTION AND ARREST OF SHOPLIFTERS AND THOSE COMMITTING MOTION
PICTURE PIRACY; PROTECTION OF INSTITUTIONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply.
      ARCHIVAL INSTITUTION. Any public or private building, structure, or
shelter in which are stored historical documents, devices, records,
manuscripts, or items of public interest, which historical materials are stored
to preserve the materials or the information in the materials, to disseminate
the information contained in the materials, or to make the materials available
for public inspection or for inspection by certain persons who have a
particular interest in, use for, or knowledge concerning the materials.
      AUDIOVISUAL RECORDING FUNCTION and FACILITY. Have the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2913.07.
      MUSEUM. Any public or private nonprofit institution that is permanently
organized for primarily educational or aesthetic purposes, owns or borrows
objects or items of public interest, and cares for and exhibits to the public
the objects or items.
      PRETRIAL DIVERSION PROGRAM. A rehabilitative, educational program
designed to reduce recidivism and promote personal responsibility that is at
least four hours in length and that has been approved by any court in this
state.
   (B)   A merchant, or an employee or agent of a merchant, who has probable
cause to believe that things offered for sale by a mercantile establishment
have been unlawfully taken by a person, may, for the purposes set forth in
division (D) below, detain the person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable
length of time within the mercantile establishment or its immediate vicinity.
   (C)   Any officer, employee, or agent of a library, museum, or archival
institution may, for the purposes set forth in division (D) below or for the
purpose of conducting a reasonable investigation of a belief that the person
has acted in a manner described in divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) below, detain a
person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable length of time within, or in the
immediate vicinity of, the library, museum, or archival institution, if the
officer, employee, or agent has probable cause to believe that the person has:
      (1)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly moved, defaced, damaged,
destroyed, or otherwise improperly tampered with property owned by or in the
custody of the library, museum, or archival institution; or
      (2)   With purpose to deprive the library, museum, or archival
institution of property owned by it or in its custody, knowingly obtained or
exerted control over the property without the consent of the owner or person
authorized to give consent, beyond the scope of the express or implied consent
of the owner or person authorized to give consent, by deception, or by threat.
   (D)   An officer, agent, or employee of a library, museum, or archival
institution pursuant to division (C) above or a merchant or an employee or
agent of a merchant pursuant to division (B) above may detain another person
for any of the following purposes:
      (1)   To recover the property that is the subject of the unlawful taking,
criminal mischief, or theft;
      (2)   To cause an arrest to be made by a peace officer;
      (3)   To obtain a warrant of arrest;
      (4)   To offer the person, if the person is suspected of the unlawful
taking, criminal mischief, or theft and notwithstanding any other provision of
this Code or the Ohio Revised Code, an opportunity to complete a pretrial
diversion program and to inform the person of the other legal remedies
available to the library, museum, archival institution, or merchant.
   (E)   The owner or lessee of a facility in which a motion picture is being
shown, or the owner’s or lessee’s employee or agent, who has probable cause to
believe that a person is or has been operating an audiovisual recording
function of a device in violation of R.C. § 2917.07 may, for the purpose of
causing an arrest to be made by a peace officer or of obtaining an arrest
warrant, detain the person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable length of
time within the facility or its immediate vicinity.
   (F)   The officer, agent, or employee of the library, museum, or archival
institution, the merchant or an employee or agent of a merchant, or the owner,
lessee, employee, or agent of the facility acting under divisions (B), (C) or
(E) above shall not search the person detained, search or seize any property
belonging to the person detained without the person's consent, or use undue
restraint upon the person detained.
   (G)   Any peace officer may arrest without a warrant any person that the
officer has probable cause to believe has committed any act described in
divisions (C)(1) or (C)(2) above, that the officer has probable cause to
believe has committed an unlawful taking in a mercantile establishment, or that
the officer has reasonable cause to believe has committed an act prohibited by
R.C. § 2913.07. An arrest under this division shall be made within a reasonable
time after the commission of the act or unlawful taking.
(R.C. § 2935.041)
Statutory reference:
   Arrest without a warrant generally, see R.C. § 2935.03
   Probable cause, see R.C. § 2933.22
§ 131.23 INSURANCE FRAUD; WORKERS' COMPENSATION FRAUD; MEDICAID FRAUD.
   (A)   Insurance fraud.
      (1)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall do either of the following:
         (a)   Present to, or cause to be presented to, an insurer any written
or oral statement that is part of, or in support of, an application for
insurance, a claim for payment pursuant to a policy, or a claim for any other
benefit pursuant to a policy, knowing that the statement, or any part of the
statement, is false or deceptive;
         (b)   Assist, aid, abet, solicit, procure, or conspire with another to
prepare or make any written or oral statement that is intended to be presented
to an insurer as part of, or in support of, an application for insurance, a
claim for payment pursuant to a policy, or a claim for any other benefit
pursuant to a policy, knowing that the statement, or any part of the statement,
is false or deceptive.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (A) is guilty of insurance fraud.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, insurance fraud is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the amount of the claim that is false or deceptive is
$1,000 or more, insurance fraud is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   This division (A) shall not be construed to abrogate, waive, or
modify R.C. § 2317.02(A).
      (4)   For the purpose of this division (A), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         DATA. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01 and additionally
includes any other representation of information, knowledge, facts, concepts,
or instructions that are being or have been prepared in a formalized manner.
         DECEPTIVE. Means that a statement, in whole or in part, would cause
another to be deceived because it contains a misleading representation,
withholds information, prevents the acquisition of information, or by any other
conduct, act, or omission creates, confirms, or perpetuates a false impression,
including, but not limited to, a false impression as to law, value, state of
mind, or other objective or subjective fact.
         INSURER. Means any person that is authorized to engage in the business
of insurance in this state under R.C. Title 39, the Ohio Fair Plan Underwriting
Association created under R.C. § 3929.43, any health insuring corporation, and
any legal entity that is self-insured and provides benefits to its employees or
members.
         POLICY. Means a policy, certificate, contract, or plan that is issued
by an insurer.
         STATEMENT. Includes but is not limited to any notice, letter, or
memorandum; proof of loss; bill of lading; receipt for payment; invoice,
account, or other financial statement; estimate of property damage; bill for
services; diagnosis or prognosis; prescription; hospital, medical, or dental
chart or other record; x-ray, photograph, videotape, or movie film; test
result; other evidence of loss, injury, or expense; computer-generated
document; and data in any form.
(R.C. § 2913.47)
   (B)   Workers' compensation fraud.
      (1)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Receive workers' compensation benefits to which the person is
not entitled;
         (b)   Make or present or cause to be made or presented a false or
misleading statement with the purpose to secure payment for goods or services
rendered under R.C. Chapter 4121, 4123, 4127, or 4131 or to secure workers'
compensation benefits;
         (c)   Alter, falsify, destroy, conceal, or remove any record or
document that is necessary to fully establish the validity of any claim filed
with, or necessary to establish the nature and validity of all goods and
services for which reimbursement or payment was received or is requested from
the Bureau of Workers' Compensation, or a self-insuring employer under R.C.
Chapter 4121, 4123, 4127, or 4131;
         (d)   Enter into an agreement or conspiracy to defraud the Bureau or
Workers' Compensation or a self-insuring employer by making or presenting or
causing to be made or presented a false claim for workers' compensation
benefits;
         (e)   Make or present or cause to be made or presented a false
statement concerning manual codes, classification or employees, payroll, paid
compensation, or number of personnel, when information of that nature is
necessary to determine the actual workers’ compensation premium or assessment
owed to the Bureau by an employer;
         (f)   Alter, forge, or create a workers’ compensation certificate or
falsely show current or correct workers’ compensation coverage;
         (g)   Fail to secure or maintain workers’ compensation coverage as
required by R.C. Chapter 4123 with the intent to defraud the Bureau of Workers’
Compensation.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of workers'
compensation fraud. Except as otherwise provided in this division, workers'
compensation fraud is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of
premiums and assessments unpaid pursuant to actions described in divisions (B)
(1)(e), (B)(1)(f), or (B)(1)(g) of this section, or goods, services, property,
or money stolen is $1,000 or more, workers' compensation fraud is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Upon application of the governmental body that conducted the
investigation and prosecution of a violation of this division (B), the court
shall order the person who is convicted of the violation to pay the
governmental body its costs of investigating and prosecuting the case. These
costs are in addition to any other costs or penalty provided under federal,
state or local law.
      (4)   The remedies and penalties provided in this division (B) are not
exclusive remedies and penalties and do not preclude the use of any other
criminal or civil remedy or penalty for any act that is in violation of this
division (B).
      (5)   For the purpose of this division (B), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         CLAIM. Means any attempt to cause the Bureau of Workers' Compensation,
an independent third party with whom the administrator or an employer contracts
under R.C. § 4121.44, or a self-insuring employer to make payment or
reimbursement for workers' compensation benefits.
         EMPLOYER, EMPLOYEE, and SELF-INSURING EMPLOYER. Have the same meanings
as in R.C. § 4123.01.
         EMPLOYMENT. Means participating in any trade, occupation, business,
service, or profession for substantial gainful remuneration.
         FALSE. Means wholly or partially untrue or deceptive.
         GOODS. Includes but is not limited to medical supplies, appliances,
rehabilitative equipment, and any other apparatus or furnishing provided or
used in the care, treatment, or rehabilitation of a claimant for workers'
compensation benefits.
         RECORDS. Means any medical, professional, financial, or business
record relating to the treatment or care of any person, to goods or services
provided to any person, or to rates paid for goods or services provided to any
person, or any record that the administrator of workers' compensation requires
pursuant to rule.
         REMUNERATION. Includes but is not limited to wages, commissions,
rebates, and any other reward or consideration.
         SERVICES. Includes but is not limited to any service provided by any
health care provider to a claimant for workers' compensation benefits and any
and all services provided by the Bureau as part of workers’ compensation
insurance coverage.
         STATEMENT. Includes but is not limited to any oral, written,
electronic, electronic impulse, or magnetic communication notice, letter,
memorandum, receipt for payment, invoice, account, financial statement, bill
for services; a diagnosis, prognosis, prescription, hospital, medical, or
dental chart or other record; and a computer generated document.
         WORKERS' COMPENSATION BENEFITS. Means any compensation or benefits
payable under R.C. Chapter 4121, 4123, 4127, or 4131.
(R.C. § 2913.48)
   (C)   Medicaid fraud.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly make or cause to be made a false or
misleading statement or representation for use in obtaining reimbursement from
the Medicaid program.
      (2)   No person, with purpose to commit fraud or knowing that the person
is facilitating a fraud, shall do either of the following:
         (a)   Contrary to the terms of the person’s provider agreement,
charge, solicit, accept or receive for goods or services that the person
provides under the Medicaid program any property, money or other consideration
in addition to the amount of reimbursement under the Medicaid program and the
person’s provider agreement for the goods or services and any cost-sharing
expenses authorized by R.C. § 5162.20 or rules adopted by the Medicaid Director
regarding the Medicaid program.
         (b)   Solicit, offer or receive any remuneration, other than any cost-
sharing expenses authorized by R.C. § 5162.20 or rules adopted by the Medicaid
Director regarding the Medicaid program, in cash or in kind, including but not
limited to a kickback or rebate, in connection with the furnishing of goods or
services for which whole or partial reimbursement is or may be made under the
Medicaid program.
      (3)   No person, having submitted a claim for or provided goods or
services under the Medicaid program, shall do either of the following for a
period of at least six years after a reimbursement pursuant to that claim, or a
reimbursement for those goods or services, is received under the Medicaid
program:
         (a)   Knowingly alter, falsify, destroy, conceal or remove any records
that are necessary to fully disclose the nature of all goods or services for
which the claim was submitted, or for which reimbursement was received, by the
person; or
         (b)   Knowingly alter, falsify, destroy, conceal or remove any records
that are necessary to disclose fully all income and expenditures upon which
rates of reimbursements were based for the person.
      (4)   Whoever violates this division (C) is guilty of Medicaid fraud.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, Medicaid fraud is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the value of the property, services or funds obtained
in violation of this section is $1,000 or more, Medicaid fraud is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate State law.
      (5)   Upon application of the governmental agency, office or other entity
that conducted the investigation and prosecution in a case under this section,
the court shall order any person who is convicted of a violation of this
section for receiving any reimbursement for furnishing goods or services under
the Medicaid program to which the person is not entitled to pay to the
applicant its cost of investigating and prosecuting the case. The costs of
investigation and prosecution that a defendant is ordered to pay pursuant to
this division shall be in addition to any other penalties for the receipt of
that reimbursement that are provided in this section, R.C. § 2913.40 or
5164.35, or any other provision of law.
      (6)   The provisions of this section are not intended to be exclusive
remedies and do not preclude the use of any other criminal or civil remedy for
any act that is in violation of this section.
      (7)   As used in this division (C):
         PROVIDER. Means any person who has signed a provider agreement with
the Department of Medicaid to provide goods or services pursuant to the
Medicaid program or any person who has signed an agreement with a party to such
a provider agreement under which the person agrees to provide goods or services
that are reimbursable under the Medicaid program.
         PROVIDER AGREEMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5164.01.
         RECIPIENT. Means any individual who receives goods or services from a
provider under the Medicaid program.
         RECORDS. Means any medical, professional, financial or business
records relating to the treatment or care of any recipient, to goods or
services provided to any recipient, or to rates paid for goods or services
provided to any recipient, and any records that are required by the rules of
the Medicaid Director to be kept for the Medicaid program.
         STATEMENT or REPRESENTATION. Means any oral, written, electronic,
electronic impulse or magnetic communication that is used to identify an item
of goods or a service for which reimbursement may be made under the Medicaid
program or that states income and expense and is or may be used to determine a
rate of reimbursement under the Medicaid program.
(R.C. § 2913.40)
   (D)   Medicaid eligibility fraud.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following in an application
for enrollment in the Medicaid program or in a document that requires a
disclosure of assets for the purpose of determining eligibility for the
Medicaid program:
         (a)   Make or cause to be made a false or misleading statement;
         (b)   Conceal an interest in property;
         (c)   1.   Except as provided in division (D)(1)(c)2. of this section,
fail to disclose a transfer of property that occurred during the period
beginning 36 months before submission of the application or document and ending
on the date the application or document was submitted;
            2.   Fail to disclose a transfer of property that occurred during
the period beginning 60 months before submission of the application or document
and ending on the date the application or document was submitted and that was
made to an irrevocable trust a portion of which is not distributable to the
applicant for or recipient of Medicaid or to a revocable trust.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates this division (D) is guilty of Medicaid
eligibility fraud. Except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation
of this division (D) is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the
Medicaid services paid as a result of the violation is $1,000 or more, a
violation of this division (D) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
         (b)   In addition to imposing a sentence under division (D)(2)(a) of
this section, the court shall order that a person who is guilty of Medicaid
eligibility fraud make restitution in the full amount of any Medicaid services
paid on behalf of an applicant for or recipient of Medicaid for which the
applicant or recipient was not eligible, plus interest at the rate applicable
to judgments on unreimbursed amounts from the date on which the Medicaid
services were paid to the date on which restitution is made.
         (c)   The remedies and penalties provided in this division (D) are not
exclusive and do not preclude the use of any other criminal or civil remedy for
any act that is in violation of this division (D).
      (3)   This division (D) does not apply to a person who fully disclosed in
an application for Medicaid or in a document that requires a disclosure of
assets for the purpose of determining eligibility for Medicaid all of the
interests in property of the applicant for or recipient of Medicaid, all
transfers of property by the applicant for or recipient of Medicaid, and the
circumstances of all those transfers.
      (4)   Any amounts of Medicaid services recovered as restitution under
this division (D) and any interest on those amounts shall be credited to the
General Revenue Fund, and any applicable federal share shall be returned to the
appropriate agency or department of the United States.
      (5)   As used in this division (D):
         MEDICAID SERVICES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5164.01.
         PROPERTY. Means any real or personal property or other asset in which
a person has any legal title or interest.
(R.C. § 2913.401)
§ 131.24 INJURY TO PROPERTY BY HUNTERS.
   (A)   No person in the act of hunting, pursuing, taking, or killing a wild
animal shall act in a negligent, careless, or reckless manner so as to injure
property.
(R.C. § 1533.171(A))
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 1533.99(C))
Statutory reference:
   Violation, license revocation, see R.C. § 1533.171(B) through (E)
§ 131.25 EVIDENCE OF INTENT TO COMMIT THEFT OF RENTED PROPERTY; EVIDENCE OF
LACK OF CAPACITY TO CONSENT.
   (A)   Evidence of intent to commit theft of rented property.
      (1)   For the purpose of this division (A), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         RENTER. A person who owns rented property.
         RENTEE. A person who pays consideration to a renter for the use of
rented property.
      (2)   Each of the following shall be considered evidence of intent to
commit theft of rented property or rental services:
         (a)   At the time of entering into the rental contract, the rentee
presented the renter with identification that was materially false, fictitious,
or not current with respect to name, address, place of employment, or other
relevant information.
         (b)   After receiving a notice demanding the return of the rented
property as provided in division (A)(3) of this section, the rentee neither
returned the rented property nor made arrangements acceptable with the renter
to return the rented property.
      (3)   To establish that a rentee has an intent to commit theft of rented
property or rental services under division (A)(2)(b) above, a renter may issue
a notice to a rentee demanding the return of the rented property. The renter
shall mail the notice by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
rentee at the address the rentee gave when the rental contract was executed, or
to the rentee at the last address the rentee or the rentee's agent furnished in
writing to the renter.
      (4)   A demand for the return of the rented property is not a
prerequisite for the prosecution of a rentee for theft of rented property or
rental services. The evidence specified in division (A)(2) above does not
constitute the only evidence that may be considered as evidence of intent to
commit theft of rented property or rental services.
(R.C. § 2913.72)
   (B)   Evidence of lack of capacity to consent.
      (1)   In a prosecution for any alleged violation of §
131.08 through
131.20,
131.23,
131.25 through
131.29, or
132.11, if the lack of consent of the victim is an element of the provision
that allegedly was violated, evidence that, at the time of the alleged
violation, the victim lacked the capacity to give consent is admissible to show
that the victim did not give consent.
      (2)   As used in this section, LACKS THE CAPACITY TO CONSENT means being
impaired for any reason to the extent that the person lacks sufficient
understanding or capacity to make and carry out reasonable decisions concerning
the person or the person's resources.
(R.C. § 2913.73)
§ 131.26 FORGERY OF IDENTIFICATION CARDS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do either of the following:
      (1)   Forge an identification card.
      (2)   Sell or otherwise distribute a card that purports to be an
identification card, knowing it was forged.
   (B)   As used in this section, IDENTIFICATION CARD means a card that
includes personal information or characteristics of an individual, a purpose of
which is to establish the identity of the bearer described on the card, whether
the words “identity,” “identification,” “identification card,” or other similar
words appear on the card.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of forging
identification cards or selling or distributing forged identification cards.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, forging identification cards or
selling or distributing forged identification cards is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of
division (A) of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, forging identification cards or selling or distributing
forged identification cards is a misdemeanor of the first degree and, in
addition, the court shall impose upon the offender a fine not less than $250.
      (2)    If the victim of a violation of this section is an elderly person,
R.C. § 2913.31(C)(2)(b) applies and the offense shall be prosecuted under R.C.
§ 2913.31.
(R.C. § 2913.31(B), (C)(2))
Statutory reference:
   Forgery, felony provisions, see R.C. § 2913.31(A) and (C)(1)
   Forgery of originating address or other routing information in connection
with the transmission of an electronic mail advertisement, felony provisions,
see R.C. § 2307.64
§ 131.27 CRIMINAL SIMULATION.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud, or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Make or alter any object so that it appears to have value because
of antiquity, rarity, curiosity, source, or authorship, which it does not in
fact possess.
      (2)   Practice deception in making, retouching, editing, or reproducing
any photograph, movie film, video tape, phonograph record, or recording tape.
      (3)   Falsely or fraudulently make, simulate, forge, alter, or
counterfeit any wrapper, label, stamp, cork or cap prescribed by the Liquor
Control Commission under R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303, falsely or fraudulently
cause to be made, simulated, forged, altered, or counterfeited any wrapper,
label, stamp, cork or cap prescribed by the Liquor Control Commission under
R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303, or use more than once any wrapper, label, stamp,
cork or cap prescribed by the Liquor Control Commission under R.C. Chapters
4301 and 4303.
      (4)   Offer, or possess with the purpose to offer, any object that the
person knows to have been simulated as provided in divisions (A)(1), (A)(2) or
(A)(3) of this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal simulation. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, criminal simulation is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the loss to the victim is $1,000 or more, criminal
simulation is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.32)
§ 131.28 PERSONATING AN OFFICER.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she is
facilitating a fraud, or with purpose to induce another to purchase property or
services, shall personate a law enforcement officer, or an inspector,
investigator, or agent of any governmental agency.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of personating an officer, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2913.44)
Cross-reference:
   Impersonating an officer (non-fraud offense), see §
132.12
§ 131.29 TRADEMARK COUNTERFEITING.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Attach, affix, or otherwise use a counterfeit mark in connection
with the manufacture of goods or services, whether or not the goods or services
are intended for sale or resale.
      (2)   Possess, sell, or offer for sale tools, machines, instruments,
materials, articles, or other items of personal property with the knowledge
that they are designed for the production or reproduction of counterfeit marks.
      (3)   Purchase or otherwise acquire goods, and keep or otherwise have the
goods in the person's possession, with the knowledge that a counterfeit mark is
attached to, affixed to, or otherwise used in connection with the goods and
with the intent to sell or otherwise dispose of the goods.
      (4)   Sell, offer for sale, or otherwise dispose of goods with the
knowledge that a counterfeit mark is attached to, affixed to, or otherwise used
in connection with the goods.
      (5)   Sell, offer for sale, or otherwise provide services with the
knowledge that a counterfeit mark is used in connection with that sale, offer
for sale, or other provision of the services.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of trademark counterfeiting.
      (1)   A violation of division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)    Except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of
division (A)(2) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
circumstances of the violation indicate that the tools, machines, instruments,
materials, articles, or other items of personal property involved in the
violation were intended for use in the commission of a felony, a violation of
division (A)(2) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of
division (A)(3), (A)(4) or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the cumulative sales price of the goods or services to which or in
connection with which the counterfeit mark is attached, affixed or otherwise
used in the offense is $1,000 or more, a violation of division (A)(3), (A)(4)
or (A)(5) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   A defendant may assert as an affirmative defense to a charge of a
violation of this section defenses, affirmative defenses, and limitations on
remedies that would be available in a civil, criminal or administrative action
or proceeding under the Lanham Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 1051 through 1127, as
amended, the Trademark Counterfeiting Act of 1984, being 18 U.S.C. § 2320, as
amended, R.C. Chapter 1329 or another section of the Ohio Revised Code, or
common law.
   (D)   (1)   Law enforcement officers may seize pursuant to Criminal Rule 41,
R.C. Chapter 2933, or R.C. Chapter 2981 either of the following:
         (a)   Goods to which or in connection with which a person attached,
affixed, otherwise used, or intended to attach, affix or otherwise use a
counterfeit mark in violation of this section.
         (b)   Tools, machines, instruments, materials, articles, vehicles or
other items of personal property that are possessed, sold, offered for sale, or
used in a violation of this section or in an attempt to commit or complicity in
the commission of a violation of this section.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of R.C. Chapter 2981, if a
person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of this section, an
attempt to violate this section, or complicity in a violation of this section,
the court involved shall declare that the goods described in division (D)(1)(a)
of this section and the personal property described in division (D)(1)(b) of
this section are contraband and are forfeited. Prior to the court's entry of
judgment under Criminal Rule 32, the owner of a registered trademark or service
mark that is the subject to the counterfeit mark may recommend a manner in
which the forfeited goods and forfeited personal property should be disposed
of. If that owner makes a timely recommendation of a manner of disposition, the
court is not bound by the recommendation. If that owner makes a timely
recommendation of a manner of disposition, the court may include in its entry
of judgment an order that requires appropriate persons to dispose of the
forfeited goods and forfeited personal property in the recommended manner. If
the owner fails to make a timely recommendation of a manner of disposition or
if that owner makes a timely recommendation of a manner of disposition but the
court determines to not follow the recommendation, the court shall include in
its entry of judgement an order that requires the law enforcement agency that
employs the law enforcement officer who seized the forfeited goods or the
forfeited personal property to destroy them or cause their destruction.
   (E)   This section does not affect the rights of an owner of a trademark or
service mark, or the enforcement in a civil action or in administrative
proceedings of the rights of an owner or a trademark or service mark under the
Lanham Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 1051 through 1127, as amended, the Trademark
Counterfeiting Act of 1984, being 18 U.S.C. § 2320, as amended, R.C. Chapter
1329, or another section of the Ohio Revised Code, or common law.
   (F)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
      COUNTERFEIT MARK.
         (a)   Except as provided in division (b) of this definition,
COUNTERFEIT MARK means a spurious trademark or a spurious service mark that
satisfies both of the following:
            1.   It is identical with or substantially indistinguishable from a
mark that is registered on the principal register in the United States Patent
and Trademark Office for the same goods or services as the goods or services to
which or in connection with which the spurious trademark or spurious service
mark is attached, affixed, or otherwise used, or from a mark that is registered
with the Secretary of State pursuant to R.C. §§ 1329.54 through 1329.67 for the
same goods or services as the goods or services to which or in connection with
which the spurious trademark or spurious service mark is attached, affixed, or
otherwise used, and the owner of the registration uses that registered
trademark, whether or not the offender knows that the mark is registered in a
manner described in this division (a)1.
            2.   Its use is likely to cause confusion or mistake or to deceive
other persons.
         (b)   COUNTERFEIT MARK does not include a mark or other designation
that is attached to, affixed to, or otherwise used in connection with goods or
services if the holder of the right to use the mark or other designation
authorizes the manufacturer, producer, or vendor of those goods or services to
attach, affix, or otherwise use the mark or other designation in connection
with those goods or services at the time of their manufacture, production or
sale.
      CUMULATIVE SALES PRICE. The product of the lowest single unit sales price
charged or sought to be charged by an offender for goods to which or in
connection with which a counterfeit mark is attached, affixed, or otherwise
used or of the lowest single service transaction price charged or sought to be
charged by an offender for services in connection with which a counterfeit mark
is used, multiplied by the total number of those goods or services, whether or
not units of goods are sold or are in an offender's possession, custody or
control.
      REGISTERED TRADEMARK OR SERVICE MARK. A trademark or service mark that is
registered in a manner described in division (a) of the definition of
“counterfeit mark.”
      TRADEMARK and SERVICE MARK. Have the same meanings as in R.C. § 1329.54
(R.C. § 2913.34)
§ 131.30 RECORDING CREDIT CARD, TELEPHONE OR SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBERS.
   (A)   No person shall record or cause to be recorded either of the
following:
      (1)   A credit card account number of the other party to a transaction,
when a check, bill of exchange or other draft is presented for payment; or
      (2)   The telephone number or Social Security account number of the other
party to a transaction, when payment is made by credit card charge agreement,
check, bill of exchange or other draft.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a transaction, if all
of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The credit card account number, Social Security account number or
telephone number is recorded for a legitimate business purpose, including
collection purposes.
      (2)   The other party to the transaction consents to the recording of the
credit card account number, Social Security account number or telephone number.
      (3)   The credit card account number, Social Security account number or
telephone number that is recorded during the course of the transaction is not
disclosed to any third party for any purposes other than collection purposes
and is not used to market goods or services unrelated to the goods or services
purchased in the transaction.
   (C)   Nothing in this section prohibits the recording of the number of a
credit card account when given in lieu of a deposit to secure payment in the
event of default, loss, damage or other occurrence, or requires a person to
accept a check presented for payment, if the other party to the transaction
refuses to consent to the recording of the number of the party’s Social
Security account or license to operate a motor vehicle.
(R.C. § 1349.17)
   (D)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 1349.99)
§ 131.31 PROSECUTIONS FOR THEFT OF UTILITIES.
   (A)   In a prosecution for a theft offense, as defined in R.C. § 2913.01,
that involves alleged tampering with a gas, electric, steam or water meter,
conduit or attachment of a utility that has been disconnected by the utility,
proof that a meter, conduit or attachment of a utility has been tampered with
is prima facie evidence that the person who is obligated to pay for the service
rendered through the meter, conduit or attachment, and who is in possession or
control of the meter, conduit or attachment at the time the tampering occurred
has caused the tampering with intent to commit a theft offense.
   (B)   In a prosecution for a theft offense, as defined in R.C. § 2913.01,
that involves the alleged reconnection of a gas, electric, steam or water
meter, conduit or attachment of a utility that has been disconnected by the
utility, proof that a meter, conduit or attachment disconnected by a utility
has been reconnected without the consent of the utility is prima facie evidence
that the person in possession or control of the meter, conduit or attachment at
the time of the reconnection has reconnected the meter, conduit or attachment
with intent to commit a theft offense.
   (C)   As used in this section:
      TAMPER means to interfere with, damage or bypass a utility meter, conduit
or attachment with the intent to impede the correct registration of a meter or
the proper functions of a conduit or attachment so as to reduce the amount of
utility service that is registered on the meter.
      UTILITY means any electric light company, gas company, natural gas
company, pipe-line company, water-works company or heating or cooling company,
as defined in R.C. § 4905.03(C), (D), (E), (F), (G), or (H), its lessees,
trustees or receivers, or any similar utility owned or operated by a political
subdivision.
(R.C. § 4933.18)
   (D)   Each electric light company, gas company, natural gas company,
pipeline company, waterworks company or heating or cooling company, as defined
by R.C. § 4905.03(C), (D), (E), (F), (G), or (H), or its lessees, trustees or
receivers, and each similar utility owned or operated by a political
subdivision, shall notify its customers, on an annual basis, that tampering
with or bypassing a meter constitutes a theft offense that could result in the
imposition of criminal sanctions.
(R.C. § 4933.19)
§ 131.32 MOTION PICTURE PIRACY.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      AUDIOVISUAL RECORDING FUNCTION means the capability of a device to record
or transmit a motion picture or any part of a motion picture by means of any
technology existing on, or developed after, March 9, 2004.
      FACILITY means a movie theater.
   (B)   No person, without the written consent of the owner or lessee of the
facility and of the licensor of the motion picture, shall knowingly operate an
audiovisual recording function of a device in a facility in which the motion
picture is being shown.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of motion
picture piracy, a misdemeanor of the first degree on the first offense and a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
   (D)   This section does not prohibit or restrict a lawfully authorized
investigative, law enforcement, protective, or intelligence gathering employee
or agent of the government of this state or a political subdivision of this
state, or of the federal government, when acting in an official capacity, from
operating an audiovisual recording function of a device in any facility in
which a motion picture is being shown.
   (E)   Division (B) of this section does not limit or affect the application
of any other prohibition in this code or the Ohio Revised Code. Any act that is
a violation of both division (B) of this section and another provision of this
code or the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under this section, under the
other provision of this code or the Ohio Revised Code, or under both this
section and the other provision of this code or the Ohio Revised Code.
(R.C. § 2913.07)
§ 131.33 DIMINISHING OR INTERFERING WITH FORFEITABLE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall destroy, damage, remove, or transfer property that is
subject to forfeiture or otherwise take any action in regard to property that
is subject to forfeiture with purpose to do any of the following:
      (1)   Prevent or impair the state’s or political subdivision’s lawful
authority to take the property into its custody or control under R.C. Chapter
2981 or to continue holding the property under its lawful custody or control;
      (2)   Impair or defeat the court’s continuing jurisdiction over the
person and property;
      (3)   Devalue property that the person knows, or has reasonable cause to
believe, is subject to forfeiture proceedings under R.C. Chapter 2981.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interference with or
diminishing forfeitable property. Except as otherwise provided in this division
(B), interference with or diminishing forfeitable property is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the value of the property is $1,000 or more, interference
with or diminishing forfeitable property is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2981.07)
§ 131.34 RAILROAD VANDALISM; CRIMINAL TRESPASS; INTERFERENCE WITH OPERATION OF
TRAIN; GRADE CROSSING DEVICE VANDALISM.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly, and by any means, drop or throw any object
at, onto, or in the path of, any railroad rail, railroad track, locomotive,
engine, railroad car, or other vehicle of a railroad company while such vehicle
is on a railroad track.
   (B)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall climb upon or into any
locomotive, engine, railroad car, or other vehicle of a railroad company when
it is on a railroad track.
   (C)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall disrupt, delay, or
prevent the operation of any train or other vehicle of a railroad company while
such vehicle is on a railroad track.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of railroad
vandalism. Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of criminal
trespass on a locomotive, engine, railroad car, or other railroad vehicle.
Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of interference with
the operation of a train. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
railroad vandalism; criminal trespass on a locomotive, engine, railroad car, or
other railroad vehicle; and interference with the operation of a train each is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation of division (A), (B), or
(C) of this section causes serious physical harm to property or creates a
substantial risk of physical harm to any person, causes physical harm to any
person, or causes serious physical harm to any person, the violation is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.10)
   (E)   No person shall knowingly deface, damage, obstruct, remove, or
otherwise impair the operation of any railroad grade crossing warning signal or
other protective device, including any gate, bell, light, crossbuck, stop sign,
yield sign, advance warning sign, or advance pavement marking.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of railroad
grade crossing device vandalism. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
railroad grade crossing device vandalism is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the violation of division (E) of this section causes serious physical harm
to property or creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person,
causes physical harm to any person, or causes serious physical harm to any
person, railroad grade crossing device vandalism is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.101)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
Section
   
132.01   Riot
   
132.02   Failure to disperse
   
132.03   Justifiable use of force to suppress riot
   
132.04   Disorderly conduct
   
132.05   Disturbing a lawful meeting
   
132.06   Misconduct at an emergency
   
132.07   Telecommunications harassment
   
132.08   Inducing panic
   
132.09   Making false alarms
   
132.10   Inciting to violence
   
132.11   Unlawful display of law enforcement emblem
   
132.12   Impersonating a peace officer
   
132.13   Safety of crowds attending special events
   
132.14   Misconduct involving a public transportation system
   
132.15   Curfew
   
132.16   Impeding public passage of an emergency service responder
Cross-reference:
   Personating an officer (fraud offense), see §
131.28
Statutory reference:
   Misuse of “Block Parent” or “McGruff House” symbol, see R.C. § 2917.46
§ 132.01 RIOT.
   (A)   No person shall participate with four or more others in a course of
disorderly conduct in violation of R.C. § 2917.11 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance:
      (1)   With purpose to commit or facilitate the commission of a
misdemeanor, other than disorderly conduct;
      (2)   With purpose to intimidate a public official or employee into
taking or refraining from official action, or with purpose to hinder, impede,
or obstruct a function of government;
      (3)   With purpose to hinder, impede, or obstruct the orderly process of
administration or instruction at an educational institution, or to interfere
with or disrupt lawful activities carried on at the institution.
   (B)   No person shall participate with four or more others with purpose to
do an act with unlawful force or violence, even though the act might otherwise
be lawful.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of riot, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 2917.03)
   (D)   For the purposes of prosecuting violations of this section, the
prosecution is not required to allege or prove that the offender expressly
agreed with four or more others to commit any act that constitutes a violation
this section prior to or while committing those acts.
(R.C. § 2917.031)
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated riot, felony provisions, see R.C. § 2917.02
§ 132.02 FAILURE TO DISPERSE.
   (A)   Where five or more persons are participating in a course of disorderly
conduct in violation of R.C. § 2917.11 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, and there are other persons in the vicinity whose presence creates
the likelihood of physical harm to persons or property or of serious public
inconvenience, annoyance, or alarm, a law enforcement officer or other public
official may order the participants and the other persons to disperse. No
person shall knowingly fail to obey the order.
   (B)   Nothing in this section requires persons to disperse who are peaceably
assembled for a lawful purpose.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to disperse.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3) of this section,
failure to disperse is a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   Failure to disperse is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if the
failure to obey the order described in division (A) of this section creates the
likelihood of physical harm to persons or is committed at the scene of a fire,
accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
(R.C. § 2917.04)
§ 132.03 JUSTIFIABLE USE OF FORCE TO SUPPRESS RIOT.
   A law enforcement officer or firefighter engaged in suppressing a riot or in
protecting persons or property during a riot:
   (A)   Is justified in using force, other than deadly force, when and to the
extent he or she has probable cause to believe such force is necessary to
disperse or apprehend rioters;
   (B)   Is justified in using force, including deadly force, when and to the
extent he or she has probable cause to believe such force is necessary to
disperse or apprehend rioters whose conduct is creating a substantial risk of
serious physical harm to persons.
(R.C. § 2917.05)
§ 132.04 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly cause inconvenience, annoyance, or alarm to
another, by doing any of the following:
      (1)   Engaging in fighting, in threatening harm to persons or property,
or in violent or turbulent behavior;
      (2)   Making unreasonable noise or an offensively coarse utterance,
gesture, or display, or communicating unwarranted and grossly abusive language
to any person;
      (3)   Insulting, taunting, or challenging another, under circumstances in
which that conduct is likely to provoke a violent response;
      (4)   Hindering or preventing the movement of persons on a public street,
road, highway, or right-of-way, or to, from, within, or upon public or private
property, so as to interfere with the rights of others, and by any act that
serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender;
      (5)   Creating a condition that is physically offensive to persons or
that presents a risk of physical harm to persons or property, by any act that
serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender.
   (B)   No person while voluntarily intoxicated shall do either of the
following:
      (1)   In a public place or in the presence of two or more persons, engage
in conduct likely to be offensive or to cause inconvenience, annoyance, or
alarm to persons of ordinary sensibilities, which conduct the offender, if he
or she were not intoxicated, should know is likely to have such effect on
others;
      (2)   Engage in conduct or create a condition that presents a risk of
physical harm to himself, herself or another, or to the property of another.
   (C)   Violation of any statute or ordinance of which an element is operating
a motor vehicle, locomotive, watercraft, aircraft, or other vehicle while under
the influence of alcohol or any drug of abuse is not a violation of division
(B) of this section.
   (D)   If a person appears to an ordinary observer to be intoxicated, it is
probable cause to believe that the person is voluntarily intoxicated for
purposes of division (B) of this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disorderly conduct.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (E)(2) and (E)(3) of this
section, disorderly conduct is a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Disorderly conduct is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if any of
the following applies:
         (a)   The offender persists in disorderly conduct after reasonable
warning or request to desist.
         (b)   The offense is committed in the vicinity of a school or in a
school safety zone.
         (c)   The offense is committed in the presence of any law enforcement
officer, firefighter, rescuer, medical person, emergency medical services
person, or other authorized person who is engaged in the person's duties at the
scene of a fire, accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
         (d)   The offense is committed in the presence of any emergency
facility person who is engaged in the person’s duties in an emergency facility.
      (3)   If an offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to three or more violations of division (B) of this section, R.C. § 2917.11(B),
or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a violation
of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A SCHOOL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2925.01.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency medical
services personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
(R.C. § 2917.11)
§ 132.05 DISTURBING A LAWFUL MEETING.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to prevent or disrupt a lawful meeting,
procession, or gathering, shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Do any act which obstructs or interferes with the due conduct of
the meeting, procession, or gathering.
      (2)   Make any utterance, gesture, or display which outrages the
sensibilities of the group.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disturbing a lawful
meeting. Except as otherwise provided in this division, disturbing a lawful
meeting is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Disturbing a lawful meeting is a
misdemeanor of the first degree if either of the following applies:
      (1)   The violation is committed with the intent to disturb or disquiet
any assemblage of people met for religious worship at a tax-exempt place of
worship, regardless of whether the conduct is within the place at which the
assemblage is held or is on the property on which that place is located and
disturbs the order and solemnity of the assemblage.
      (2)   The violation is committed with the intent to prevent, disrupt, or
interfere with a virtual meeting or gathering of people for religious worship,
through use of a computer, computer system, telecommunications device, or other
electronic device or system, or in any other manner.
   (C)   As used in this section:
      COMPUTER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      COMPUTER SYSTEM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      VIRTUAL MEETING OR GATHERING. A meeting or gathering by interactive video
conference or teleconference, or by a combination thereof.
(R.C. § 2917.12)
§ 132.06 MISCONDUCT AT AN EMERGENCY.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Hamper the lawful operations of any law enforcement officer,
firefighter, rescuer, medical person, emergency medical services person, or
other authorized person engaged in the person's duties at the scene of a fire,
accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind;
      (2)   Hamper the lawful activities of any emergency facility person who
is engaged in the person’s duties in an emergency facility;
      (3)   Fail to obey the lawful order of any law enforcement officer
engaged in the law enforcement officer's duties at the scene of or in
connection with a fire, accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit access or deny
information to any news media representative in the lawful exercise of the news
media representative's duties.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of misconduct at an emergency.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, misconduct at an emergency is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If violation of this section creates a risk
of physical harm to persons or property, misconduct at an emergency is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      EMERGENCY FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency medical
services personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
(R.C. § 2917.13)
§ 132.07 TELECOMMUNICATIONS HARASSMENT.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make or cause to be made a
telecommunication, or knowingly permit a telecommunication to be made from a
telecommunications device under the person's control, to another, if the caller
does any of the following:
      (1)   Makes the telecommunication with purpose to harass, intimidate, or
abuse any person at the premises to which the telecommunication is made,
whether or not actual communication takes place between the caller and a
recipient;
      (2)   Describes, suggests, requests, or proposes that the caller, the
recipient of the telecommunication, or any other person engage in sexual
activity, and the recipient or another person at the premises to which the
telecommunication is made has requested, in a previous telecommunication or in
the immediate telecommunication, that the caller not make a telecommunication
to the recipient or to the premises to which the telecommunication is made;
      (3)   During the telecommunication, violates R.C. § 2903.21 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (4)   Knowingly states to the recipient of the telecommunication that the
caller intends to cause damage to or destroy public or private property, and
the recipient, any member of the recipient's family, or any other person who
resides at the premises to which the telecommunication is made owns, leases,
resides, or works in, will at the time of the destruction or damaging be near
or in, has the responsibility of protecting, or insures the property that will
be destroyed or damaged;
      (5)   Knowingly makes the telecommunication to the recipient of the
telecommunication, to another person at the premises to which the
telecommunication is made, or to those premises, and the recipient or another
person at those premises previously has told the caller not to make a
telecommunication to those premises or to any persons at those premises;
      (6)   Knowingly makes any comment, request, suggestion, or proposal to
the recipient of the telecommunication that is threatening, intimidating,
menacing, coercive, or obscene with the intent to abuse, threaten, or harass
the recipient;
      (7)   Without a lawful business purpose, knowingly interrupts the
telecommunication service of any person;
      (8)   Without a lawful business purpose, knowingly transmits to any
person, regardless of whether the telecommunication is heard in its entirety,
any file, document, or other communication that prevents that person from using
the person’s telephone service or electronic communication device;
      (9)   Knowingly makes any false statement concerning the death, injury,
illness, disfigurement, reputation, indecent conduct, or criminal conduct of
the recipient of the telecommunication or family or household member of the
recipient with purpose to abuse, threaten, intimidate, or harass the recipient;
      (10)   Knowingly incites another person through a telecommunication or
other means to harass or participate in the harassment of a person;
      (11)   Knowingly alarms the recipient by making a telecommunication
without a lawful purpose at an hour or hours known to be inconvenient to the
recipient and in an offensive or repetitive manner.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall make or cause to be made a telecommunication or
permit a telecommunication to be made from a telecommunications device under
the person's control, with purpose to abuse, threaten, or harass another
person.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly post a text or audio statement or an
image on an internet web site or web page for the purpose of abusing,
threatening, or harassing another person.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of telecommunications
harassment.
      (2)   A violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(5), (A)(6), (A)
(7), (A)(8), (A)(9), (A)(10), or (A)(11) or (B) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree on a first offense and a felony on each
subsequent offense, which shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(3), a violation
of division (A)(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree on a
first offense and a felony on each subsequent offense, to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If a violation of division (A)(4) of this section
results in economic harm of $1,000 or more, telecommunications harassment is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   No cause of action may be assessed in any court of this municipality
against any provider of a telecommunications service, interactive computer
service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, or against any
officer, employee, or agent of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, for any
injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly arises out of the
provider's, officer's, employee's, or agent's provision of information,
facilities, or assistance in accordance with the terms of a court order that is
issued in relation to the investigation or prosecution of an alleged violation
of this section. A provider of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, or an
officer, employee, or agent of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, is
immune from any civil or criminal liability for injury, death, or loss to
person or property that allegedly arises out of the provider's, officer's,
employees, or agent's provision of information, facilities, or assistance in
accordance with the terms of a court order that is issued in relation to the
investigation or prosecution of an alleged violation of this section.
   (E)   (1)   This section does not apply to a person solely because the
person provided access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control, including
having provided capabilities that are incidental to providing access or
connection to or from the electronic method of remotely transferring the
information, and that do not include the creation of the content of the
material that is the subject of the access or connection. In addition, any
person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control shall not be
liable for any action voluntarily taken in good faith to block the receipt or
transmission through its service of any information that the person believes
is, or will be sent, in violation of this section.
      (2)   Division (E)(1) of this section does not create an affirmative duty
for any person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method
of remotely transferring information not under that person’s control to block
the receipt or transmission through its service of any information that it
believes is, or will be sent, in violation of this section except as otherwise
provided by law.
      (3)   Division (E)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
conspires with a person actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of this section or who knowingly
advertises the availability of material of that nature.
      (4)   A provider or user of an interactive computer service, as defined
in 47 U.S.C. § 230, shall neither be treated as the publisher or speaker of any
information provided by another information content provider, as defined in 47
U.S.C. § 230, nor held civilly or criminally liable for the creation or
development of information provided by another information content provider, as
defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230. Nothing in this division shall be construed to
protect a person from liability to the extent that the person developed or
created any content in violation of this section.
   (F)   Divisions (A)(5) to (A)(11) and (B)(2) of this section do not apply to
a person who, while employed or contracted by a newspaper, magazine, press
association, news agency, news wire service, cable channel or cable operator,
or radio or television station, is gathering, processing, transmitting,
compiling, editing, or disseminating information for the general public within
the scope of the person’s employment in that capacity or the person’s
contractual authority in that capacity.
   (G)   As used in divisions (A) through (D) of this section:
      CABLE OPERATOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21.
      CALLER. Means the person described in division (A) of this section who
makes or causes to be made a telecommunication or who permits a
telecommunication to be made from a telecommunications device under that
person's control.
      ECONOMIC HARM. Means all direct, incidental and consequential pecuniary
harm suffered by a victim as a result of the criminal conduct. The term
includes but is not limited to all of the following:
         (a)   All wages, salaries or other compensation lost as a result of
the criminal conduct;
         (b)   The cost of all wages, salaries or other compensation paid to
employees for time those employees are prevented from working as a result of
the criminal conduct;
         (c)   The overhead costs incurred from the time that a business is
shut down as a result of the criminal conduct;
         (d)   The loss of value to tangible or intangible property that was
damaged as a result of the criminal conduct.
      FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
recipient of the telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in division
(A)(9) of this section is committed:
            1.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse, or a former spouse of
the recipient;
            2.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the recipient, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the recipient;
            3.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse, or
former spouse of the recipient, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
recipient.
         (b)   The natural parent of any child of whom the recipient of the
telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in division (A)(9) of this
section is committed is the other natural parent or is the putative other
natural parent.
      PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE. Means a person who is living or has lived with
the recipient of the telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in
division (A)(9) of this section is committed in a common law marital
relationship, who otherwise is cohabiting with the recipient, or who otherwise
has cohabited with the recipient within five years prior to the date of the
alleged commission of the act in question.
      SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
      TELECOMMUNICATION and TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Have the same meanings
as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   (H)   Nothing in this section prohibits a person from making a
telecommunication to a debtor that is in compliance with the “Fair Debt
Collection Practices Act,” 15 U.S.C. § 1692, as amended, or the “Telephone
Consumer Protection Act,” 47 U.S.C. § 227, as amended.
(R.C. § 2917.21)
§ 132.08 INDUCING PANIC.
   (A)   No person shall cause the evacuation of any public place, or otherwise
cause serious public inconvenience or alarm, by doing any of the following:
      (1)   Initiating or circulating a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime, or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false.
      (2)   Threatening to commit any offense of violence.
      (3)   Committing any offense, with reckless disregard of the likelihood
that its commission will cause serious public inconvenience or alarm.
   (B)   Division (A)(1) of this section does not apply to any person
conducting an authorized fire or emergency drill.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of inducing panic.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3), inducing panic is
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   If a violation of this section results in physical harm to any
person, inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law. If a violation of this section results in economic harm of $1,000 or more,
inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the
public place involved in a violation of division (A)(1) is a school or an
institution of higher education, inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law. If a violation of this section pertains to a
purported, threatened or actual use of a weapon of mass destruction, inducing
panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   (1)   It is not a defense to a charge under this section that pertains
to a purported or threatened use of a weapon of mass destruction that the
offender did not possess or have the ability to use a weapon of mass
destruction or that what was represented to be a weapon of mass destruction was
not a weapon of mass destruction.
      (2)   Any act that is a violation of this section and any other section
of the Ohio Revised Code or this Code of Ordinances may be prosecuted under
this section, the other section, or both sections.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      BIOLOGICAL AGENT has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2917.33.
      ECONOMIC HARM means any of the following:
         (a)   All direct, incidental and consequential pecuniary harm suffered
by a victim as a result of the criminal conduct. “Economic harm” as described
in this division includes but is not limited to all of the following:
            1.   All wages, salaries or other compensation lost as a result of
the criminal conduct;
            2.   The cost of all wages, salaries or other compensation paid to
employees for time those employees are prevented from working as a result of
the criminal conduct;
            3.   The overhead costs incurred from the time that a business is
shut down as a result of the criminal conduct;
            4.   The loss of value to tangible or intangible property that was
damaged as a result of the criminal conduct.
         (b)   All costs incurred by the state or any political subdivision as
a result of, or in making any response to, the criminal conduct that
constituted the violation of this section or R.C. § 2917.32, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, including but not limited to all
costs so incurred by any law enforcement officers, firefighters, rescue
personnel, or emergency medical services personnel of the state or the
political subdivision.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSONNEL has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2133.21.
      INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION means any of the following:
         (a)   A state university or college as defined in R.C. § 3345.12(A)
(1), community college, state community college, university branch, or
technical college;
         (b)   A private, nonprofit college, university or other post-secondary
institution located in this state that possesses a certificate of authorization
issued by the Chancellor of Higher Education pursuant to R.C. Chapter 1713;
         (c)   A post-secondary institution with a certificate of registration
issued by the State Board of Career Colleges and Schools pursuant to R.C.
Chapter 3332.
      SCHOOL. Means any school operated by a board of education or any school
for which the Director of Education and Workforce prescribes minimum standards
under R.C. § 3301.07, whether or not any instruction, extracurricular
activities, or training provided by the school is being conducted at the time a
violation of this section is committed.
      WEAPON OF MASS DESTRUCTION means any of the following:
         (a)   Any weapon that is designed or intended to cause death or
serious physical harm through the release, dissemination, or impact of toxic or
poisonous chemicals, or other precursors;
         (b)   Any weapon involving a disease organism or biological agent;
         (c)   Any weapon that is designed to release radiation or
radioactivity at a level dangerous to human life;
         (d)   Any of the following, except to the extent that the item or
device in question is expressly excepted from the definition of “destructive
device” pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)(4) and regulations issued under that
section:
            1.   Any explosive, incendiary, or poison gas bomb, grenade, rocket
having a propellant charge of more than four ounces, missile having an
explosive or incendiary charge of more than one-quarter ounce, mine, or similar
device;
            2.   Any combination of parts either designed or intended for use
in converting any item or device into any item or device described in division
(d)1. of this definition and from which an item or device described in that
division may be readily assembled.
(R.C. § 2917.31)
§ 132.09 MAKING FALSE ALARMS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Initiate or circulate a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime, or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false and likely to cause public inconvenience or alarm.
      (2)   Knowingly cause a false alarm of fire or other emergency to be
transmitted to or within any organization, public or private, for dealing with
emergencies involving a risk of physical harm to persons or property.
      (3)   Report to any law enforcement agency an alleged offense or other
incident within its concern, knowing that the offense did not occur.
      (4)   Initiate or circulate a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime, or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false and likely to impede the operation of a critical
infrastructure facility.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any person conducting an authorized
fire or emergency drill.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making false alarms. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, making false alarms is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If a violation of this section results in economic harm of
$1,000 or more, making false alarms is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If a violation of this section pertains to a purported,
threatened, or actual use of a weapon of mass destruction, making false alarms
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   (1)   It is not a defense to a charge under this section that pertains
to a purported or threatened use of a weapon of mass destruction that the
offender did not possess or have the ability to use a weapon of mass
destruction or that what was represented to be a weapon of mass destruction was
not a weapon of mass destruction.
      (2)   Any act that is a violation of this section and any other section
of the Ohio Revised Code or this Code of Ordinances may be prosecuted under
this section, the other section, or both sections.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2911.21.
      ECONOMIC HARM and WEAPON OF MASS DESTRUCTION. Have the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2917.31.
(R.C. § 2917.32)
§ 132.10 INCITING TO VIOLENCE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly engage in conduct designed to urge or incite
another to commit any offense of violence when either of the following apply:
      (1)   The conduct takes place under circumstances that create a clear and
present danger that any offense of violence will be committed.
      (2)   The conduct proximately results in the commission of any offense of
violence.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of inciting to violence. If
the offense of violence that the other person is being urged or incited to
commit is a misdemeanor, inciting to violence is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the offense of violence that the other person is being urged or
incited to commit is a felony, inciting to violence is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2917.01)
§ 132.11 UNLAWFUL DISPLAY OF LAW ENFORCEMENT EMBLEM.
   (A)   No person who is not entitled to do so shall knowingly display on a
motor vehicle the emblem of a law enforcement agency or an organization of law
enforcement officers.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of the unlawful display of the
emblem of a law enforcement agency or an organization of law enforcement
officers, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2913.441)
§ 132.12 IMPERSONATING A PEACE OFFICER.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. An employee of the United States who
serves in a position the duties of which are primarily the investigation,
apprehension, or detention of individuals suspected or convicted of offenses
under the criminal laws of the United States.
      IMPERSONATE. To act the part of, assume the identity of, wear the uniform
or any part of the uniform of, or display the identification of a particular
person or of a member of a class of persons with purpose to make another person
believe that the actor is that particular person or is a member of that class
of persons.
      INVESTIGATOR OF THE BUREAU OF CRIMINAL IDENTIFICATION AND INVESTIGATION.
Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.11.
      PEACE OFFICER. A Sheriff, deputy sheriff, Marshal, deputy marshal, member
of the organized police department of a municipal corporation, or township
constable, who is employed by a political subdivision of this state; a member
of a police force employed by a metropolitan housing authority under R.C. §
3735.31(D); a member of a police force employed by a regional transit authority
under R.C. § 306.35(Y); a state university law enforcement officer appointed
under R.C. § 3345.04; a veterans’ home police officer appointed under R.C. §
5907.02; a special police officer employed by a port authority under R.C. §
4582.04 or 4582.28; an officer, agent, or employee of the state or any of its
agencies, instrumentalities, or political subdivisions, upon whom, by statute,
a duty to conserve the peace or to enforce all or certain laws is imposed and
the authority to arrest violators is conferred, within limits of that statutory
duty and authority; or a state highway patrol trooper whose primary duties are
to preserve the peace, to protect life and property, and to enforce the laws,
ordinances, or rules of the state or any of its political subdivisions.
      PRIVATE POLICE OFFICER. Any security guard, special police officer,
private detective, or other person who is privately employed in a police
capacity.
   (B)   No person shall impersonate a peace officer, private police officer,
investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation, or
federal law enforcement officer.
   (C)   No person, by impersonating a peace officer, private police officer,
investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation, or
federal law enforcement officer, shall arrest or detain any person, search any
person, or search the property of any person.
   (D)   No person, with purpose to commit or facilitate the commission of an
offense, shall impersonate a peace officer, private police officer, federal law
enforcement officer, an officer, agent or employee of the municipality or the
state, or investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation.
   (E)   No person shall commit a felony while impersonating a peace officer,
private police officer, federal law enforcement officer, an officer, agent or
employee of the municipality or of the state, or investigator of the Bureau of
Criminal Identification and Investigation.
   (F)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B) of this
section that the impersonation of the peace officer, private police officer,
federal law enforcement officer, an officer, agent or employee of the
municipality or of the state, or investigator of the Bureau of Criminal
Identification and Investigation was for a lawful purpose.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the purpose of a
violation of division (D) of this section is to commit or facilitate the
commission of a felony, a violation of division (D) is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. Whoever violates division (E) of this
section is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.51)
Cross-reference:
   Personating an officer (fraud offense), see §
131.28
§ 132.13 SAFETY OF CROWDS ATTENDING SPECIAL EVENTS.
   (A)   (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         PERSON. Includes, in addition to an individual or entity specified in
R.C. § 1.59(C), any governmental entity.
         RESTRICTED ENTERTAINMENT AREA. Any wholly or partially enclosed area,
whether indoors or outdoors, that has limited access through established
entrances or established turnstiles or similar devices.
         SPECIAL EVENT or EVENT. A fair, festival, concert, parade, running/
walking/cycling events, public performance, or announced public gathering held
on a public street, right-of-way, or property owned or leased by the village
and/or events that require the closure of a public street. Special event also
includes events on private property, which are open to the public and the
expected attendance is 1,000 or more people. Special events possess one or more
of the following characteristics:
            1.   Any activity involving entertainment and/or amplified sound,
food, beverage, merchandise sales or any activity such as a festival, carnival/
circus, sports event, trade show, craft show, car show, public dance, special
event or performance;
            2.   Any activity that may substantially increase or disrupt the
normal flow of traffic on any street or highway;
            3.   Any activity which involves the use of village facilities;
            4.   Any activity which involves the use of village services that
would not be necessary in the absence of such an event;
            5.   Any activity that requires the closure of a public
thoroughfare or right-of-way and rerouting of traffic; or
            6.   Any activity which includes a mobile food vehicle, as defined
in
Chapter 120, as part of the special event.
      (2)   The Village of Mogadore School District sponsored student events
are not considered special events.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall sell, offer to sell, or offer in return for a
donation, any ticket that is not numbered and that does not correspond to a
specific seat for admission to either of the following:
         (a)   A special event that is not exempted under division (D) of this
section, that is held in a restricted entertainment area, and for which more
than 8,000 tickets are offered to the public;
         (b)   A special event that is not exempted under division (D) of this
section and for which more than 3,000 tickets are offered to the public.
      (2)   No person shall advertise any special event as described in
division (B)(1)(a) of this section or any special event as described in
division (B)(1)(b) of this section, unless the advertisement contains the words
“Reserved Seats Only.”
   (C)   Unless exempted by division (D)(1) of this section, no person who owns
or operates any restricted entertainment area shall fail to open, maintain, and
properly staff at least the number of entrances designated under division (E)
of this section for a minimum of 90 minutes before the scheduled start of any
special event that is held in the restricted entertainment area and for which
more than 3,000 tickets are sold, offered for sale or offered in return for a
donation.
   (D)   (1)   A special event, other than a concert, is exempted from the
provisions of divisions (B) and (C) of this section if both of the following
apply:
         (a)   The restricted entertainment area in which the performance is
held has at least eight entrances or, if both entrances and separate admission
turnstiles or similar devices are used, has at least eight turnstiles or
similar devices.
         (b)   The eight entrances or, if applicable, the eight turnstiles or
similar devices, are opened, maintained, and properly staffed at least one hour
prior to the scheduled start of the performance.
      (2)   (a)   1.   The Village Fire Chief and Police Chief or their
designees may, upon application of the sponsor of a concert covered by division
(B) of this section, exempt the concert from the provisions of that division if
both Chiefs find that the health, safety, and welfare of the participants and
spectators would not be substantially affected by failure to comply with the
provisions of that division. In determining whether to grant an exemption, the
Village Fire Chief and Police Chief shall consider the following factors:
               a.   The size and design of the facility in which the concert is
scheduled;
               b.   The size, age, and anticipated conduct of the crowd
expected to attend the concert;
               c.   The sale of liquor and/or alcoholic beverages; and
               d.   The ability of the sponsor to manage and control the
expected crowd.
            2.   If the sponsor of any special event desires to obtain an
exemption under this division, the sponsor shall apply to the Chief of Police
and Fire Chief on a form prescribed by them. The Fire Chief and Chief of Police
shall issue an order that grants or denies the exemption within five days after
receipt of the application. The sponsor may appeal any order that denies an
exemption to the Court of Common Pleas of the county in which the facility is
located.
         (b)   If the Village Police Chief and Fire Chief grants an exemption
under division (D)(2)(a) of this section, the village shall designate an on-
duty law enforcement officer to be present at the concert. The designated
officer has authority to issue orders to all security personnel at the conceit
to protect the health, safety and welfare of the participants and spectators.
   (E)   Unless a special event is exempted by division (D)(1) of this section,
the Village Fire Chief and Police Chief shall designate, for purposes of
division (C) of this section, the minimum number of entrances required to be
opened, maintained and staffed at each special event so as to permit crowd
control and reduce congestion at the entrances. The designation shall be based
on such factors as the size and nature of the crowd expected to attend the
special event, the length of time before the special event that crowds are
expected to congregate at the entrances, and the amount of security provided at
the restricted entertainment area.
   (F)   No person shall enter into any contract for a special event that does
not permit or require compliance with this section.
   (G)   (1)   This section does not apply to a special event held in a
restricted entertainment area if one admission ticket entitles the holder to
view or participate in three or more different games, rides, activities, or
special events occurring simultaneously at different sites within the
restricted entertainment area and if the initial admittance entrance to the
restricted entertainment area, for which the ticket is required, is separate
from the entrance to any specific special event and an additional ticket is not
required for admission to the particular special event.
      (2)   This section does not apply to a symphony orchestra performance, a
ballet performance, horse races, dances or fairs.
   (H)   This section does not prohibit the Village Council from imposing
additional requirements, not in conflict with the section, for the promotion or
holding of special events.
   (I)   Whoever violates division (B), (C) or (F) of this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If any individual suffers physical harm to
his or her person as a result of a violation of this section, the sentencing
court shall consider this factor in favor of imposing a term of imprisonment
upon the offender.
(Am. Ord. 2022-34, passed 4-20-22)
§ 132.14 MISCONDUCT INVOLVING A PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM.
   (A)   As used in this section, PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM means a county
transit system operated in accordance with R.C. §§ 306.01 through 306.13, a
regional transit authority operated in accordance with R.C. §§ 306.30 through
306.71, or a regional transit commission operated in accordance with R.C. §§
306.80 through 306.90.
   (B)   No person shall evade the payment of the known fares of a public
transportation system.
   (C)   No person shall alter any transfer, pass, ticket or token of a public
transportation system with the purpose of evading the payment of fares or of
defrauding the system.
   (D)   No person shall do any of the following while in any facility or on
any vehicle of a public transportation system:
      (1)   Play sound equipment without the proper use of a private earphone;
      (2)   Smoke, eat or drink in any area where the activity is clearly
marked as being prohibited; or
      (3)   Expectorate upon a person, facility or vehicle.
   (E)   No person shall write, deface, draw or otherwise mark on any facility
or vehicle of a public transportation system.
   (F)   No person shall fail to comply with a lawful order of a public
transportation system police officer, and no person shall resist, obstruct or
abuse a public transportation police officer in the performance of the
officer’s duties.
   (G)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of
misconduct involving a public transportation system.
      (1)   A violation of division (B), (C), or (F) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   A violation of division (D) of this section is a minor misdemeanor
on a first offense. If a person previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of any division of this section or of a municipal
ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any division of this section, a
violation of division (D) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
      (3)   A violation of division (E) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
   (H)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 75% of each fine paid to
satisfy a sentence imposed for a violation of any of the provisions of this
section shall be deposited into the treasury of the county and 25% shall be
deposited with the county transit board, regional transit authority or regional
transit commission that operates the public transportation system involved in
the violation, unless the Board of County Commissioners operates the public
transportation system, in which case 100% of each fine shall be deposited into
the treasury of the county.
(R.C. § 2917.41)
§ 132.15 CURFEW.
   (A)   No person under the age of 18 years shall be abroad upon the streets
or sidewalks of this municipality between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m.
local time, Sunday through Thursday, and between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 5:
00 a.m. local time, Friday and Saturday, unless accompanied by his or her
parent, guardian, or adult person having the legal care, custody and control of
his or her person or accompanied by an adult person having the permission of
one of the persons mentioned above or going directly to or from any lawful
activity, entertainment or employment with knowledge and consent to the parent,
guardian or adult person having the legal care, custody and control of his
person.
   (B)   It shall be the legal duty of all parents, guardians, or other persons
having the care, control, or custody of a minor child under the age of 18 years
to keep such child off the streets or sidewalks of the village between the
hours of 11:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. unless such child is accompanied by such
parent or guardian or other adult person having permission from such parent or
guardian to accompany such child or unless such parent or guardian has
consented to such child's going to or from any lawful activity, entertainment
or employment. Any breach of the aforesaid duty shall constitute a violation of
this section.
   (C)   No adult person shall be in the company of any child under the age of
18 years on the streets or sidewalks of the village between the hours of 11:00
p.m. and 5:00 a.m. unless such adult person shall have the permission from the
parent, guardian or other adult person having the legal custody and control of
such child to be in the company of such child during such hours.
(Ord. 18-1976, passed 2-4-76; Am. Ord. 28-1992, passed 4-15-92) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.16 IMPEDING PUBLIC PASSAGE OF AN EMERGENCY SERVICE RESPONDER.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall recklessly obstruct any
highway, street, sidewalk, or any other public passage in such a manner as to
render the highway, street, sidewalk, or passage impassable without
unreasonable inconvenience or hazard if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The obstruction prevents an emergency vehicle from accessing a
highway or street, prevents an emergency service responder from responding to
an emergency, or prevents an emergency vehicle or an emergency service
responder from having access to an exit from an emergency.
      (2)   Upon receipt of a request or order from an emergency service
responder to remove or cease the obstruction, the person refuses to remove or
cease the obstruction.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not limit or affect the application
of R.C. § 2921.31 or any other section of the Ohio Revised Code. Any conduct
that is a violation of division (A) of this section and that also is a
violation of R.C. § 2921.31 or any other section of the Ohio Revised Code may
be prosecuted under this section, the other section of the Ohio Revised Code,
or both sections.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawfully impeding public
passage of an emergency service responder, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   As used in this section, EMERGENCY SERVICE RESPONDER has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 2903.13.
(R.C. § 2917.14)
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST MORALS
Section
   
133.01   Definitions
   
133.02   Unlawful sexual conduct with a minor
   
133.03   Sexual imposition
   
133.04   Public indecency
   
133.05   Voyeurism
   
133.06   Polygraph examinations for victims: restrictions on use
   
133.07   Procuring; engagement in sexual activity for hire
   
133.08   Soliciting; loitering to engage in
   
133.09   Prostitution
   
133.10   Disseminating matter harmful to juveniles
   
133.11   Displaying matter harmful to juveniles
   
133.12   Residence restrictions for sexual predators
   
133.13   Deception to obtain matter harmful to juveniles
   
133.14   Rules of evidence
   
133.15   Declaratory judgement
   
133.16   Injunction; abatement of nuisance
   
133.17   Underage tobacco prohibition
   
133.18   Unlawful operation of viewing booths depicting sexual conduct
   
133.19   Juveniles on the premises of adult entertainment establishments
prohibited
   
133.20   Sexually oriented businesses; illegal operation and activity
   
133.21   Unlawful advertising of massage
   
133.22   Nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images
   133.23   Grooming
 
   
133.99   Sentencing for sexually oriented offenses; sexual predators;
registration
Statutory reference:
   Assistance to victims of sexual assault, see R.C. §§ 2907.28 et seq.
   Child victim, disposition of, see R.C. § 2945.481
   Suppression of information at trial, see R.C. § 2907.11
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 133.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   HARMFUL TO JUVENILES. That quality of any material or performance describing
or representing nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement, or sado-masochistic
abuse in any form to which all of the following apply:
      (1)   The material or performance, when considered as a whole, appeals to
the prurient interest of juveniles in sex.
      (2)   The material or performance is patently offensive to prevailing
standards in the adult community as a whole with respect to what is suitable
for juveniles.
      (3)   The material or performance, when considered as a whole, lacks
serious literary, artistic, political, and scientific value for juveniles.
   JUVENILE. Any unmarried person under 18 years of age.
   LICENSED MEDICAL PROFESSIONAL. Any of the following medical professionals:
      (1)   A physician assistant licensed under R.C. Chapter 4730;
      (2)   A physician authorized under R.C. Chapter 4731 to practice medicine
and surgery, osteopathic medicine and surgery, or podiatric medicine and
surgery;
      (3)   A massage therapist licensed under R.C. Chapter 4731.
   MATERIAL. Any book, magazine, newspaper, pamphlet, poster, print, picture,
figure, image, description, motion picture film, video cassette, laser disc,
phonograph record, cassette tape, compact disc, or other tangible thing capable
of arousing interest through sight, sound, or touch and includes an image or
text appearing on a computer monitor, television screen, liquid crystal
display, or similar display device or an image or text recorded on a computer
hard disk, computer floppy disk, compact disk, magnetic tape, or similar data
storage device.
   MENTAL HEALTH CLIENT OR PATIENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.51.
   MENTAL HEALTH PROFESSIONAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.115.
   MINOR. A person under the age of 18.
   NUDITY. The showing, representation, or depiction of human male or female
genitals, pubic area, or buttocks with less than a full, opaque covering, or of
a female breast with less than a full, opaque covering of any portion thereof
below the top of the nipple, or of covered male genitals in a discernibly
turgid state.
   OBSCENE. When considered as a whole, and judged with reference to ordinary
adults or, if it is designed for sexual deviates or other specially susceptible
group, judged with reference to that group, any material or performance is
OBSCENE if any of the following apply:
      (1)   Its dominant appeal is to prurient interest.
      (2)   Its dominant tendency is to arouse lust by displaying or depicting
sexual activity, masturbation, sexual excitement, or nudity in a way that tends
to represent human beings as mere objects of sexual appetite.
      (3)   Its dominant tendency is to arouse lust by displaying or depicting
bestiality or extreme or bizarre violence, cruelty, or brutality.
      (4)   Its dominant tendency is to appeal to scatological interest by
displaying or depicting human bodily functions of elimination in a way that
inspires disgust or revulsion in persons with ordinary sensibilities, without
serving any genuine scientific, educational, sociological, moral, or artistic
purpose.
      (5)   It contains a series of displays or descriptions of sexual
activity, masturbation, sexual excitement, nudity, bestiality, extreme or
bizarre violence, cruelty, or brutality, or human bodily functions of
elimination, the cumulative effect of which is a dominant tendency to appeal to
prurient or scatological interest, when the appeal to such an interest is
primarily for its own sake or for commercial exploitation, rather than
primarily for a genuine scientific, educational, sociological, moral, or
artistic purpose.
   PERFORMANCE. Any motion picture, preview, trailer, play, show, skit, dance,
or other exhibition performed before an audience.
   PLACE WHERE A PERSON HAS A REASONABLE EXPECTATION OF PRIVACY. A place where
a reasonable person would believe that the person could fully disrobe in
private.
   PRIVATE AREA. The genitals, pubic area, buttocks, or female breast below the
top of the areola, where nude or covered by an undergarment.
   PROSTITUTE. A male or female who promiscuously engages in sexual activity
for hire, regardless of whether the hire is paid to the prostitute or to
another.
   SADO-MASOCHISTIC ABUSE. Flagellation or torture by or upon a person or the
condition of being fettered, bound, or otherwise physically restrained.
   SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Sexual conduct or sexual contact, or both.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT. Vaginal intercourse between a male and female; anal
intercourse, fellatio, and cunnilingus between persons regardless of sex; and,
without privilege to do so, the insertion, however slight, of any part of the
body or any instrument, apparatus, or other object into the vaginal or anal
opening of another. Penetration, however slight, is sufficient to complete
vaginal or anal intercourse.
   SEXUAL CONTACT. Any touching of an erogenous zone of another, including
without limitation the thigh, genitals, buttock, pubic region, or, if the
person is a female, a breast, for the purpose of sexually arousing or
gratifying either person.
   SEXUAL EXCITEMENT. The condition of human male or female genitals when in a
state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
   SPOUSE. A person married to an offender at the time of an alleged offense,
except that such person shall not be considered the spouse when any of the
following apply:
      (1)   When the parties have entered into a written separation agreement
pursuant to R.C. § 3103.06.
      (2)   When an action is pending between the parties for annulment,
divorce, dissolution of marriage, or legal separation.
      (3)   In the case of an action for legal separation, after the effective
date of the judgment for legal separation.
(R.C. § 2907.01)
§ 133.02 UNLAWFUL SEXUAL CONDUCT WITH A MINOR.
   (A)   No person who is 18 years of age or older shall engage in sexual
conduct with another when the offender knows the other person is 13 years of
age or older but less than 16 years of age, or the offender is reckless in that
regard.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful sexual conduct
with a minor.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2), unlawful sexual
conduct with a minor is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(3) of this section, if
the offender is less than four years older than the other person, unlawful
sexual conduct with a minor is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of R.C. § 2907.02, 2907.03 or 2907.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, or a violation of former R.C. § 2907.12, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, unlawful sexual conduct with a
minor is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.04)
§ 133.03 SEXUAL IMPOSITION.
   (A)   No person shall have sexual contact with another; cause another to
have sexual contact with the offender; or cause two or more other persons to
have sexual contact when the offender knows that the sexual contact is
offensive to the other person, or one of the other persons, or is reckless in
that regard.
   (B)   No person shall be convicted of a violation of this section solely
upon the victim's testimony unsupported by other evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of sexual imposition, a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section, R.C. § 2907.02, 2907.03,
2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.06, former R.C. § 2907.12, or a substantially equivalent
state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of this section is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to three or more violations of this section, R.C. § 2907.02,
2907.03, 2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.06, former R.C. § 2907.12, or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any combination of those
sections, a violation of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree and,
notwithstanding the range of jail terms prescribed in R.C. § 2929.24, the court
may impose on the offender a definite jail term of not more than one year.
(R.C. § 2907.06)
Statutory reference:
   Gross sexual imposition, felony, see R.C. § 2907.05
   Notice to licensing board or agency upon indictment, conviction or guilty
plea of mental health professional, see R.C. §§ 2907.17 and 2907.18
§ 133.04 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following, under
circumstances in which the person’s conduct is likely to be viewed by and
affront others who are in the person’s physical proximity and who are not
members of the person’s household:
      (1)   Expose the persons’s private parts.
      (2)   Engage in sexual conduct or masturbation.
      (3)   Engage in conduct that to an ordinary observer would appear to be
sexual conduct or masturbation.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following, under circumstances
in which the person’s conduct is likely to be viewed by and affront another
person who is in the person’s physical proximity, who is a minor, and who is
not the spouse of the offender:
      (1)   Engage in masturbation.
      (2)   Engage in sexual conduct.
      (3)   Engage in conduct that to an ordinary observer would appear to be
sexual conduct or masturbation.
      (4)   Expose the person’s private parts with the purpose of personal
sexual arousal or gratification or to lure the minor into sexual activity.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of public indecency and
shall be punished as provided in divisions (C)(2), (C)(3), (C)(4), and (C)(5)
of this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(2), a violation
of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, a violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the third degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by
the offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations
of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
a violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by the
offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more
violations of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, a violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by
the offender’s conduct was a minor, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(3), a violation
of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the third
degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to
one violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the second degree or, if any person who was likely to view
and be affronted by the offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section or a substantially equivalent
state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if any person who was
likely to view and be affronted by the offender’s conduct was a minor, a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(4), a violation
of division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
second degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law
or municipal ordinance, a violation of division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this
section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(5), a violation
of division (B)(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation of
this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (B)(4) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (D)   (1)   If either of the following applies, the court may determine at
the time of sentencing whether to classify the offender as a tier I sex
offender/child-victim offender for a violation of division (B)(4) of this
section:
         (a)   The offender is less than ten years older than the other person.
         (b)   The offender is ten or more years older than the other person
and the offender has not previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any
violation of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance.
      (2)   If the offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (B)(4) of this section, is ten or more years older than the other
person, and previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation
of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the court shall issue an order at the time of sentencing that
classifies the offender as a tier I sex offender/child-victim offender subject
to registration under R.C. §§ 2950.04, 2950.041, 2950.05, and 2950.06.
(R.C. § 2907.09)
   (E)   A mother is entitled to breast-feed her baby in any location of a
place of public accommodation, as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, wherein the mother
otherwise is permitted.
(R.C. § 3781.55)
Statutory reference:
   Bail considerations for persons charged, see R.C. § 2907.41
§ 133.05 VOYEURISM.
   (A)   No person, for the purpose of sexually arousing or gratifying himself
or herself, shall commit trespass or otherwise surreptitiously invade the
privacy of another, to spy or eavesdrop upon another.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly commit trespass or otherwise secretly or
surreptitiously videotape, film, photograph, broadcast, stream, or otherwise
record another person, in a place where a person has a reasonable expectation
of privacy, for the purpose of viewing the private areas of that person.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly commit trespass or otherwise secretly or
surreptitiously videotape, film, photograph, broadcast, stream, or otherwise
record a minor, in a place where a person has a reasonable expectation of
privacy, for the purpose of viewing the private areas of the minor.
   (D)   No person shall secretly or surreptitiously videotape, film,
photograph, or otherwise record another person above, under, or through the
clothing being worn by that other person for the purpose of viewing the body
of, or the undergarments worn by, that other person.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of voyeurism.
      (1)   A violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
      (2)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
second degree.
      (3)   A violation of division (D) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (4)   A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.08)
§ 133.06 POLYGRAPH EXAMINATIONS FOR VICTIMS: RESTRICTIONS ON USE.
   (A)   (1)   A peace officer, prosecutor, other public official, defendant,
defendant's attorney, alleged juvenile offender, or alleged juvenile offender's
attorney shall not ask or require a victim of an alleged sex offense to submit
to a polygraph examination as a condition for proceeding with the investigation
or prosecution of the alleged sex offense.
      (2)   The refusal of the victim of an alleged sex offense to submit to a
polygraph examination shall not prevent the investigation of the alleged sex
offense, the filing of criminal charges with respect to the alleged sex
offense, or the prosecution of the alleged perpetrator of the alleged sex
offense.
   (B)   As used in this section:
      ALLEGED JUVENILE OFFENDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2930.01.
      PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.51.
      POLYGRAPH EXAMINATION. Means any mechanical or electrical instrument or
device of any type used or allegedly used to examine, test, or question an
individual for the purpose of determining the individual’s truthfulness.
      PROSECUTION. Means the prosecution of criminal charges in a criminal
prosecution or the prosecution of a delinquent child complaint in a delinquency
proceeding.
      PROSECUTOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
      PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 117.01.
      SEX OFFENSE. Means a violation of any provision of §§
133.02 to
133.05 or R.C. §§ 2907.02 to 2907.09.
(R.C. § 2907.10)
§ 133.07 PROCURING; ENGAGEMENT IN SEXUAL ACTIVITY FOR HIRE.
   (A)   Procuring.
      (1)   No person, knowingly and for gain, shall do either of the
following:
         (a)   Entice or solicit another to patronize a prostitute or brothel;
         (b)   Procure a prostitute for another to patronize, or take or direct
another at the other's request to any place for the purpose of patronizing a
prostitute.
      (2)   No person, having authority or responsibility over the use of
premises, shall knowingly permit the premises to be used for the purpose of
engaging in sexual activity for hire.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(1)(a) or (A)(1)(b) of this section is
guilty of procuring. Except as otherwise provided in this division, procuring
is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the prostitute who is procured,
patronized, or otherwise involved in a violation of division (A)(1)(b) of this
section is under 18 years of age at the time of the violation, regardless of
whether the offender who violates division (A)(1)(b) of this section knows the
prostitute’s age, or if a prostitute who engages in sexual activity for hire in
premises used in violation of division (A)(2) of this section is under 18 years
of age at the time of the violation, regardless of whether the offender who
violates division (A)(2) of this section knows the prostitute’s age, procuring
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.23)
   (B)   Engagement in sexual activity for hire.
      (1)   As used in this division (B):
         PERSON WITH A DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITY. Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2905.32.
         SEXUAL ACTIVITY FOR HIRE. An implicit or explicit agreement to provide
sexual activity in exchange for anything of value paid to the person engaging
in such sexual activity, to any person trafficking that person, or to any
person associated with either such person.
      (2)   No person shall recklessly induce, entice, or procure another to
engage in sexual activity for hire in exchange for the person giving anything
of value to the other person.
      (3)   No person shall recklessly induce, entice, or procure another to
engage in sexual activity for hire in exchange for the person giving anything
of value to the other person if the other person is a person with a
developmental disability and the offender knows or has reasonable cause to
believe that the other person is a person with a developmental disability.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is guilty of
engaging in prostitution, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Whoever violates
division (B)(3) of this section is guilty of engaging in prostitution with a
person with a developmental disability, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. In sentencing an offender under this division for a
violation of division (B)(2) of this section, the court shall require the
offender to attend an education or treatment program aimed at preventing
persons from inducing, enticing, or procuring another to engage in sexual
activity for hire in exchange for the person giving anything of value to the
other person. Notwithstanding the fine specified in R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a) for
a misdemeanor of the first degree, in sentencing an offender under this
division for a violation of division (B)(2) of this section, the court may
impose upon the offender a fine of not more than $1,500.
(R.C. § 2907.231)
§ 133.08 SOLICITING; LOITERING TO ENGAGE IN.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly solicit another to engage in sexual activity
for hire in exchange for the person receiving anything of value from the other
person.
   (B)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in conduct in violation of division (A) of this section.
   (C)   As used in division (A) of this section, SEXUAL ACTIVITY FOR HIRE
means an implicit or explicit agreement to provide sexual activity in exchange
for anything of value paid to the person engaging in such sexual activity, to
any person trafficking that person, or to any person associated with either
such person.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
soliciting. Soliciting is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of engaging
in solicitation after a positive HIV test, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.24)
   (E)   No person, with purpose to solicit another to engage in sexual
activity for hire and while in or near a public place, shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Beckon to, stop or attempt to stop another;
      (2)   Engage or attempt to engage another in conversation;
      (3)   Stop or attempt to stop the operator of a vehicle or approach a
stationary vehicle;
      (4)   If the offender is the operator of or a passenger in a vehicle,
stop, attempt to stop, beckon to, attempt to beckon to, or entice another to
approach or enter the vehicle of which the offender is the operator or in which
the offender is the passenger;
      (5)   Interfere with the free passage of another.
   (F)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in conduct in violation of division (E) of this section.
   (G)   As used in division (E) of this section:
      PUBLIC PLACE means any of the following:
         (a)   A street, road, highway, thoroughfare, bikeway, walkway,
sidewalk, bridge, alley, alleyway, plaza, park, driveway, parking lot or
transportation facility.
         (b)   A doorway or entrance way to a building that fronts on a place
described in division (a) of this definition.
         (c)   A place not described in division (a) or (b) of this definition
that is open to the public.
      VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   (H)   (1)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of
loitering to engage in solicitation, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (F) of this section is guilty of
loitering to engage in solicitation after a positive HIV test, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.241)
Statutory reference:
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 133.09 PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   No person shall engage in sexual activity for hire.
   (B)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in sexual activity for hire.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
prostitution, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of engaging
in prostitution after a positive HIV test, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.25)
Statutory reference:
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 133.10 DISSEMINATING MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (A)   No person, with knowledge of its character or content, shall
recklessly do any of following:
      (1)   Directly sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit,
rent, or present to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles any material or performance that is obscene or harmful to juveniles;
      (2)   Directly offer or agree to sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate,
provide, exhibit, rent, or present to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law
enforcement officer posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement
officers posing as juveniles any material or performance that is obscene or
harmful to juveniles;
      (3)   While in the physical proximity of the juvenile or law enforcement
officer posing as a juvenile, allow any juvenile or law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile to review or peruse any material or view any live
performance that is harmful to juveniles.
   (B)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under this section
that involves material or a performance that is harmful to juveniles but not
obscene:
      (1)   The defendant is the parent, guardian, or spouse of the juvenile
involved.
      (2)   The juvenile involved, at the time of the conduct in question, was
accompanied by his or her parent or guardian who, with knowledge of its
character, consented to the material or performance being furnished or
presented to the juvenile.
      (3)   The juvenile exhibited to the defendant or his or her agent or
employee a draft card, driver's license, birth record, marriage license, or
other official or apparently official document purporting to show that the
juvenile was 18 years of age or over or married, and the person to whom the
document was exhibited did not otherwise have reasonable cause to believe that
the juvenile was under the age of 18 and unmarried.
   (C)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section,
involving material or a performance that is obscene or harmful to juveniles,
that the material or performance was furnished or presented for a bona fide
medical, scientific, educational, governmental, judicial, or other proper
purpose, by a physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist, teacher,
librarian, clergy, prosecutor, judge, or other proper person.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) of this section, mistake of
age is not a defense to a charge under this section.
   (D)   (1)   A person directly sells, delivers, furnishes, disseminates,
provides, exhibits, rents, or presents or directly offers or agrees to sell,
deliver, furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit, rent, or present material or a
performance to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles in violation of this section by means of an electronic method of
remotely transmitting information if the person knows or has reason to believe
that the person receiving the information is a juvenile or the group of persons
receiving the information are juveniles.
      (2)   A person remotely transmitting information by means of a method of
mass distribution does not directly sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate,
provide, exhibit, rent, or present or directly offer or agree to sell, deliver,
furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit, rent, or present the material or
performance in question to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement
officer posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles in violation of this section if either of the following applies:
         (a)   The person has inadequate information to know or have reason to
believe that a particular recipient of the information or offer is a juvenile.
         (b)   The method of mass distribution does not provide the person the
ability to prevent a particular recipient from receiving the information.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disseminating matter
harmful to juveniles. If the material or performance involved is harmful to
juveniles except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the material or performance
involved is obscene, violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.31)
   (F)   Presumptions, notice and defense.
      (1)   An owner or manager, or agent or employee of an owner or manager,
of a bookstore, newsstand, theater, or other commercial establishment engaged
in selling material or exhibiting performances, who, in the course of business
does any of the acts prohibited by this section is presumed to have knowledge
of the character of the material or performance involved if the owner, manager,
or agent or employee of the owner or manager has actual notice of the nature of
such material or performance, whether or not the owner, manager, or agent or
employee of the owner or manager has precise knowledge of its contents.
      (2)   Without limitation on the manner in which such notice may be given,
actual notice of the character of material or a performance may be given in
writing by the chief legal officer of the municipality. Such notice, regardless
of the manner in which it is given, shall identify the sender, identify the
material or performance involved, state whether it is obscene or harmful to
juveniles, and bear the date of such notice.
      (3)   This §
133.10 does not apply to a motion picture operator or projectionist acting
within the scope of employment as an employee of the owner or manager of the
theater or other place for the showing of motion pictures to the general
public, and having no managerial responsibility or financial interest in the
operator’s or projectionist’s place of employment, other than wages.
      (4)   (a)   The provisions of §§
133.10,
133.11 and
133.12(A) do not apply to a person solely because the person provided access or
connection to or from an electronic method of remotely transferring information
not under that person’s control, including having provided capabilities that
are incidental to providing access or connection to or from the electronic
method of remotely transferring the information, and that do not include the
creation of the content of the material that is the subject of the access or
connection.
         (b)   Division (E)(4)(a) of this section does not apply to a person
who conspires with an entity actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of §
133.10,
133.11, or
133.12 or who knowingly advertises the availability of material of that nature.
         (c)   Division (E)(4)(a) of this section does not apply to a person
who provides access or connection to an electronic method of remotely
transferring information that is engaged in the violation of §
133.10,
133.11, or
133.12 and that contain content that person has selected and introduced into
the electronic method of remotely transferring information or content over
which that person exercises editorial control.
      (5)   An employer is not guilty of a violation of §
133.10,
133.11, or
133.12 based on the actions of an employee or agent of the employer unless the
employee’s or agent’s conduct is within the scope of the employee’s or agent’s
employment or agency, and the employer does either of the following:
         (a)   With knowledge of the employee’s or agent’s conduct, the
employer authorizes or ratifies the conduct.
         (b)   The employer recklessly disregards the employee’s or agent’s
conduct.
      (6)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under §
133.10 or
133.11 as the section applies to an image transmitted through the internet or
other electronic method of remotely transmitting information that the person
charged with violating the section has taken, in good faith, reasonable,
effective, and appropriate actions under the circumstances to restrict or
prevent access by juveniles to material that is harmful to juveniles, including
any method that is feasible under available technology.
(R.C. § 2907.35)
§ 133.11 DISPLAYING MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (A)   No person who has custody, control, or supervision of a commercial
establishment, with knowledge of the character or content of the material
involved, shall display at the establishment any material that is harmful to
juveniles and that is open to view by juveniles as part of the invited general
public.
   (B)   It is not a violation of division (A) of this section if the material
in question is displayed by placing it behind “blinder racks” or similar
devices that cover at least the lower two-thirds of the material, if the
material in question is wrapped or placed behind the counter, or if the
material in question otherwise is covered or located so that the portion that
is harmful to juveniles is not open to the view of juveniles.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of displaying matter harmful
to juveniles, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each day during which the
offender is in violation of this section constitutes a separate offense.
(R.C. § 2907.311)
Cross-reference:
   Presumptions, notice and defense, see §
133.10(F)
§ 133.12 RESIDENCE RESTRICTIONS FOR SEXUAL PREDATORS.
   (A)   No person who has been convicted of, is convicted of, has pleaded
guilty to, or pleads guilty to either a sexually oriented offense that is not a
registration-exempt sexually oriented offense or a child- victim offense and
has been classified as a sexual predator shall establish a residence or occupy
residential premises within 2,500 feet of any school premises, preschool,
daycare, public park, library, or public pool, that is located within the
Village of Mogadore.
   (B)   If a person to whom division (A) of this section applies violates
division (A) by establishing a residence or occupying residential premises
within 2,500 feet of any school premises, preschool, daycare, public park,
library, or public pool that is located within the Village of Mogadore, the
Director of Law has a cause of action for injunctive relief against the person.
The Village of Mogadore shall not be required to prove irreparable harm in
order to obtain the relief.
   (C)   The Village of Mogadore adopts the provisions of the law of Ohio now
or hereafter in effect concerning the definition, determination, registration,
or classification of a person who has been convicted of, is convicted of, has
plead guilty to, or pleads guilty to either a sexually oriented offense that is
not a registration-exempt sexually oriented offense or a child-victim oriented
offense and has been classified as a sexual predator.
   (D)   The village Council of the Village of Mogadore adopts the
determinations and intent of the Ohio General Assembly as articulated in R.C. §
2950.02.
   (E)   The Village of Mogadore adopts the definitions now and hereafter in
effect for school premises, preschool, daycare, public park, library, or public
pool as defined by the law of Ohio.
(Ord. 61, passed 9-22-05)
§ 133.13 DECEPTION TO OBTAIN MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (A)   No person, for the purpose of enabling a juvenile to obtain any
material or gain admission to any performance which is harmful to juveniles,
shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Falsely represent that he or she is the parent, guardian, or spouse
of the juvenile.
      (2)   Furnish the juvenile with any identification or document purporting
to show that the juvenile is 18 years of age or over or married.
   (B)   No juvenile, for the purpose of obtaining any material or gaining
admission to any performance which is harmful to juveniles, shall do either of
the following:
      (1)   Falsely represent that he or she is 18 years of age or over or
married.
      (2)   Exhibit any identification or document purporting to show that he
or she is 18 years of age or over or married.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of deception to obtain matter
harmful to juveniles, a misdemeanor of the second degree. A juvenile who
violates division (B) of this section shall be adjudged an unruly child, with
the disposition of the case as may be appropriate under R.C. Chapter 2151.
(R.C. § 2907.33)
Cross-reference:
   Presumptions, notice and defense, see §
133.10(F)
Statutory reference:
   Juvenile Court, see R.C. Chapter 2151
§ 133.14 RULES OF EVIDENCE.
   (A)   In any case in which it is necessary to prove that a place is a
brothel, evidence as to the reputation of such place and as to the reputation
of the persons who inhabit or frequent it is admissible on the question of
whether such place is or is not a brothel.
   (B)   In any case in which it is necessary to prove that a person is a
prostitute, evidence as to the reputation of such person is admissible on the
question of whether such person is or is not a prostitute.
   (C)   In any prosecution for a violation of §§
133.07 through
133.09, proof of a prior conviction of the accused of any such offense or
substantially equivalent offense is admissible in support of the charge.
   (D)   The prohibition contained in R.C. § 2317.02(D) against testimony by a
husband or wife concerning communications between them does not apply, and the
accused's spouse may testify concerning any such communication in any of the
following cases:
      (1)   When the husband or wife is charged with a violation of §
133.07 and the spouse testifying was the prostitute involved in the offense or
the person who used the offender's premises to engage in sexual activity for
hire;
      (2)   When the husband or wife is charged with a violation of §
133.08(A) or §
133.09.
(R.C. § 2907.26)
§ 133.15 DECLARATORY JUDGMENT.
   (A)   Without limitation on the persons otherwise entitled to bring an
action for a declaratory judgment pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2721, involving the
same issue, the following persons have standing to bring a declaratory judgment
action to determine whether particular materials or performances are obscene or
harmful to juveniles:
      (1)   The chief legal officer of the municipality if and when there is
reasonable cause to believe that R.C. § 2907.31 or R.C. § 2907.32, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, is being or is about to be
violated;
      (2)   Any person who, pursuant to R.C. § 2907.35(B) or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, has received notice in writing from the chief
legal officer stating that particular materials or performances are obscene or
harmful to juveniles.
   (B)   Any party to an action for a declaratory judgment pursuant to division
(A) of this section is entitled, upon the party's request, to trial on the
merits within five days after joinder of the issues, and the court shall render
judgment within five days after trial is concluded.
   (C)   An action for a declaratory judgement pursuant to division (A) of this
section shall not be brought during the pendency of any civil action or
criminal prosecution when the character of the particular materials or
performances involved is at issue in the pending case, and either of the
following applies:
      (1)   Either of the parties to the action for a declaratory judgment is a
party to the pending case;
      (2)   A judgment in the pending case will necessarily constitute res
judicata as to the character of the materials or performances involved.
   (D)   A civil action or criminal prosecution in which the character of
particular materials or performances is at issue, brought during the pendency
of an action for a declaratory judgment involving the same issue, shall be
stayed during the pendency of the action for a declaratory judgment.
   (E)   The fact that a violation of R.C. § 2907.31 or R.C. § 2907.32, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, occurs prior to a judicial
determination of the character of the material or performance involved in the
violation does not relieve the offender of criminal liability for the
violation, even though prosecution may be stayed pending the judicial
determination.
(R.C. § 2907.36)
§ 133.16 INJUNCTION; ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   Where it appears that R.C. § 2907.31 or R.C. § 2907.32, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, is being or is about to be
violated, the chief legal officer of the municipality may bring an action to
enjoin the violation. The defendant, upon his or her request, is entitled to
trial on the merits within five days after the joinder of the issues, and the
court shall render judgment within five days after the trial is concluded.
   (B)   Premises used or occupied for repeated violations of R.C. § 2907.31 or
R.C. § 2907.32, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, constitute a
nuisance subject to abatement pursuant to R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2907.37)
Statutory reference:
   Disseminating matter harmful to juveniles, felony, see R.C. § 2907.31
   Pandering obscenity, felony, see R.C. § 2907.32
§ 133.17 UNDERAGE TOBACCO PROHIBITION.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   CIGARETTES. Any roll for smoking made wholly or in part of tobacco,
irrespective of size or shape, and whether or not such tobacco is flavored,
adulterated or mixed with any other ingredient, the wrapper or cover of which
is made of paper, reconstituted cigarette tobacco, homogenized cigarette
tobacco, cigarette tobacco sheet or any similar materials.
   POSSESS or POSSESSION. Having control over a thing or substance, but may not
be inferred solely from mere access to the thing or substance through ownership
or occupation of the premises upon which the thing or substance is found.
   SMOKE. To burn any substance containing tobacco, including a lighted
cigarette, cigar, or pipe or other device used to burn tobacco.
   TOBACCO PRODUCTS. The proceeds, yield or final form of anything made up
wholly or in part of the genus of the plant know as “nicotiana.” Such products
include but are not limited to cigars, pipe tobacco, chewing tobacco and snuff.
   USE TOBACCO. To chew or maintain any substance containing tobacco, including
smokeless tobacco, in the mouth to derive the effects of tobacco.
   (B)   Possession and use by minors prohibited.
      (1)   No person under the age of 18 years shall smoke, use cigarettes or
other tobacco products, or possess any substance containing tobacco.
      (2)   No person under the age of 18 years shall order, pay for, purchase,
share the cost of or attempt to purchase cigarettes or other tobacco products.
      (3)   No person under the age of 18 years shall knowingly show or give
false information concerning his name, age or other identification for the
purpose of purchasing or otherwise obtaining cigarettes or other tobacco
products in any place in the village where cigarettes or other tobacco products
are sold.
      (4)   No person shall knowingly furnish any false information as to the
name, age or other identification of any person under 18 years of age for the
purpose of obtaining, or with the intent to obtain, cigarettes or other tobacco
products for a person under 18 years of age, by purchase or as a gift.
   (C)   Penalty. Whoever violates this section is guilty of underage tobacco
prohibition, a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been convicted
of a violation of this section they shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(Ord. 24, passed 8-5-98) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.18 UNLAWFUL OPERATION OF VIEWING BOOTHS DEPICTING SEXUAL CONDUCT.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT means an entity that is open to the public and
to which either of the following applies:
         (a)   It has a substantial or significant portion of its stock in
trade of the sale, rental, or viewing of visual materials or performances
depicting sexual conduct.
         (b)   It has as a principal business purpose the sale, rental, or
viewing of visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct.
      VISUAL MATERIALS or PERFORMANCES means films, videos, CD-ROM discs,
streaming video, or other motion pictures.
   (B)   No person who has custody, control, or supervision of a commercial
establishment, with knowledge of the character of the visual material or
performance involved, shall knowingly permit the use of, or offer the use of,
viewing booths, stalls, or partitioned portions of a room located in the
commercial establishment for the purpose of viewing visual materials or
performances depicting sexual conduct unless both of the following apply:
      (1)   The inside of each booth, stall, or partitioned room is visible
from, and at least one side of each booth, stall, or partitioned room is open
to, a continuous and contiguous main aisle or hallway that is open to the
public areas of the commercial establishment and is not obscured by any
curtain, door, or other covering or enclosure.
      (2)   No booth, stall, or partitioned room is designed, constructed,
pandered, or allowed to be used for the purpose of encouraging or facilitating
nudity or sexual activity on the part of or between patrons or members of the
public, and no booth, stall, or partitioned room has any aperture, hole, or
opening for the purpose of encouraging or facilitating nudity or sexual
activity.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that
either of the following applies to the involved visual materials or
performances:
      (1)   The visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct are
disseminated or presented for a bona fide medical, scientific, educational,
religious, governmental, judicial, or other proper purpose and by or to a
physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist, teacher, person pursuing bona
fide studies or research, librarian, member of the clergy, prosecutor, judge,
or other person having a proper interest in the visual materials or
performances.
      (2)   The visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct,
taken as a whole, would be found by a reasonable person to have serious
literary, artistic, political, or scientific value or are presented or
disseminated in good faith for a serious literary, artistic, political, or
scientific purpose and are not pandered for their prurient appeal.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of permitting unlawful
operation of viewing booths depicting sexual conduct, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 2907.38)
§ 133.19 JUVENILES ON THE PREMISES OF ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ADULT ARCADE means any place to which the public is permitted or invited
in which coin- operated, slug-operated, or electronically, electrically, or
mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other
image-producing devices are regularly maintained to show images to five or
fewer persons per machine at any one time, and in which the images so displayed
are distinguished  or characterized by their emphasis upon matter exhibiting or
describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, or ADULT VIDEO STORE.
         (a)   Means a commercial establishment that, for any form of
consideration, has as a significant or substantial portion of its stock-in-
trade in, derives a significant or substantial portion of its revenues from,
devotes a significant or substantial portion of its interior business or
advertising to, or maintains a substantial section of its sales or display
space for the sale or rental of any of the following:
            1.   Books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, compact discs, slides, or
other visual representations, that are characterized by their emphasis upon the
exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas;
            2.   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia that are designed for
use or marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of self or others.
         (b)   Includes a commercial establishment as defined in R.C. §
2907.38. An establishment may have other principal business purposes that do
not involve the offering for sale, rental, or viewing of materials exhibiting
or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas and
still be categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty store, or adult video
store. The existence of other principal business purposes does not exempt an
establishment from being categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty
store, or adult video store so long as one of its principal business purposes
is offering for sale or rental, for some form of consideration, such materials
that exhibit or describe specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
      ADULT CABARET means a nightclub, bar, juice bar, restaurant, bottle club,
or similar commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages are
served, that regularly features any of the following:
         (a)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminudity;
         (b)   Live performances that are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities;
         (c)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other
photographic reproductions that are distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis upon the exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT ENTERTAINMENT means the sale, rental, or exhibition, for any form
of consideration, of books, films, video cassettes, magazines, periodicals, or
live performances that are  characterized by an emphasis on the exposure or
display of specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activity.
      ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT means an adult arcade, adult bookstore,
adult novelty store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motion picture
theater, adult theater, nude or seminude model studio, or sexual encounter
establishment. An establishment in which a medical practitioner, psychologist,
psychiatrist, or similar professional person licensed by the state engages in
medically approved and recognized therapy, including, but not limited to,
massage therapy, as regulated pursuant to R.C. § 4731.15, is not an “adult
entertainment establishment”.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER means a commercial establishment where
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar photographic
reproductions that are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis upon
the exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas are regularly shown for any form of consideration.
      ADULT THEATER means a theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar
commercial establishment that, for any form of consideration, regularly
features persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminudity or live
performances that are characterized by their emphasis upon the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities.
      DISTINGUISHED or CHARACTERIZED BY THEIR EMPHASIS UPON means the dominant
or principal character and theme of the object described by this phrase. For
instance, when the phrase refers to films “that are distinguished or
characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas”, the films so described are
those whose dominant or principal character and theme are the exhibition or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      NUDE or SEMINUDE MODEL STUDIO means any place where a person, who
regularly appears in a state of nudity or seminudity, is provided for money or
any other form of consideration to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted,
sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by other persons. A modeling
class or studio is not a nude or seminude model studio and is not subject to
this chapter if it is operated in any of the following ways:
         (a)   By a college or university supported entirely or partly by
taxation;
         (b)   By a private college or university that maintains and operates
educational programs, the credits for which are transferable to a college or
university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
         (c)   In a structure that has no sign visible from the exterior of the
structure and no other advertising indicating that a person appearing in a
state of nudity or seminudity is available for viewing, if in order to
participate in a class in the structure, a student must enroll at least three
days in advance of the class and if not more than one nude or seminude model is
on the premises at any one time.
      NUDITY, NUDE, or STATE OF NUDITY means the showing of the human male or
female genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft, or cleavage with less
than a fully opaque covering; or the showing of the female breasts with less
than a fully opaque covering of any part of the nipple.
      REGULARLY FEATURES or REGULARLY SHOWN means a consistent or substantial
course of conduct, such that the films or performances exhibited constitute a
substantial portion of the films or performances offered as a part of the
ongoing business of the adult entertainment establishment.
      SEMINUDE or STATE OF SEMINUDITY means a state of dress in which opaque
clothing covers not more than the genitals, pubic region, and nipple of the
female breast, as well as portions of the body covered by supporting straps or
devices.
      SEXUAL ENCOUNTER ESTABLISHMENT.
         (a)   Means a business or commercial establishment that, as one of its
principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration a place where
either of the following occur:
            1.   Two or more persons may congregate, associate, or consort for
the purpose of engaging in specified sexual activities.
            2.   Two or more persons appear nude or seminude for the purpose of
displaying their nude or seminude bodies for their receipt of consideration or
compensation in any type or form.
         (b)   An establishment where a medical practitioner, psychologist,
psychiatrist, or similar professional person licensed by the state engages in
medically approved and recognized therapy, including, but not limited to,
massage therapy, as regulated pursuant to R.C. § 4731.15, is not a “sexual
encounter establishment”.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS means the cleft of the buttocks, anus, male or
female genitals, or the female breast.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY means any of the following:
         (a)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, or actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation, or sodomy;
         (b)   Excretory functions as a part of or in connection with any of
the activities described in division (a) of this definition.
   (B)   No person knowingly shall allow an individual, including, but not
limited to, a patron, customer, or employee, who is under 18 years of age on
the premises of an adult entertainment establishment.
   (C)   No individual who is under 18 years of age knowingly shall show or
give false information concerning the individual’s name or age, or other false
identification, for the purpose of gaining entrance to an adult entertainment
establishment.
   (D)   A person shall not be found guilty of a violation of division (B) of
this section if the person raises as an affirmative defense and if the jury or,
in a nonjury trial, the court finds the person has established by a
preponderance of the evidence, all of the following:
      (1)   The individual gaining entrance to the adult entertainment
establishment exhibited to an operator, employee, agent, or independent
contractor of the adult entertainment establishment a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card issued under R.C. §§ 4507.50 and
4507.52 showing that the individual was then at least 18 years of age.
      (2)   The operator, employee, agent, or independent contractor made a
bona fide effort to ascertain the true age of the individual gaining entrance
to the adult entertainment establishment by checking the identification
presented, at the time of entrance, to ascertain that the description on the
identification compared with the appearance of the individual and that the
identification had not been altered in any way.
      (3)   The operator, employee, agent, or independent contractor had reason
to believe that the individual gaining entrance to the adult entertainment
establishment was at least 18 years of age.
   (E)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense described in
division (D) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or the
Deputy Registrar who issued a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an
identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50 and 4507.52 shall be permitted to
submit certified copies of the records, in the Registrar’s or Deputy
Registrar’s possession, of the issuance of the license or identification card
in question, in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of the Bureau of Motor
Vehicles in the action.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
permitting a juvenile on the premises of an adult entertainment establishment,
a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each day a person violates this division
constitutes a separate offense.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of use by a
juvenile of false information to enter an adult entertainment establishment, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if committed by
an adult.
(R.C. § 2907.39)
§ 133.20 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; ILLEGAL OPERATION AND ACTIVITY.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. A commercial establishment that has
as a significant or substantial portion of its stock in trade or inventory in,
derives a significant or substantial  portion of its revenues from, devotes a
significant or substantial portion of its interior business or advertising to,
or maintains a substantial section of its sales or display space for the sale
or rental, for any form of consideration, of books, magazines, periodicals, or
other printed matter, or photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes,
compact discs, slides, or other visual representations, that are characterized
by their emphasis upon the exhibition or description of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT CABARET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where films,
motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or similar photographic reproductions
that are characterized by their emphasis upon the display of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas are regularly shown to more than five
individuals for any form of consideration.
      CHARACTERIZED BY. Describing the essential character or quality of an
item.
      EMPLOYEE. Any individual who performs any service on the premises of a
sexually oriented business on a full-time, part-time, or contract basis,
regardless of whether the individual is denominated an employee, independent
contractor, agent, or otherwise, but does not include an individual exclusively
on the premises for repair or maintenance of the premises or for the delivery
of goods to the premises.
      NUDITY, NUDE, or STATE OF NUDITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2907.39.
      OPERATOR. Any individual on the premises of a sexually oriented business
who causes the business to function or who puts or keeps in operation the
business or who is authorized to manage the business or exercise overall
operational control of the business premises.
      PATRON. Any individual on the premises of a sexually oriented business
except for any of the following:
         (a)   An operator or an employee of the sexually oriented business;
         (b)   An individual who is on the premises exclusively for repair or
maintenance of the premises or for the delivery of goods to the premises;
         (c)   A public employee or a volunteer firefighter emergency medical
services worker acting within the scope of the public employee’s or volunteer’s
duties as a public employee or volunteer.
      PREMISES. The real property on which the sexually oriented business is
located and all appurtenances to the real property, including, but not limited,
to the sexually oriented business, the grounds, private walkways, and parking
lots or parking garages adjacent to the real property under the ownership,
control, or supervision of the owner or operator of the sexually oriented
business.
      REGULARLY. Consistently or repeatedly.
      SEMINUDE or STATE OF SEMINUDITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2907.39.
      SEXUAL DEVICE. Any three-dimensional object designed and marketed for
stimulation of the male or female human genitals or anus or female breasts or
for sadomasochistic use or abuse of oneself or others, including, but not
limited to, dildos, vibrators, penis pumps, and physical representations of the
human genital organs, but not including devices primarily intended for
protection against sexually transmitted diseases or for preventing pregnancy.
      SEXUAL DEVICE SHOP. A commercial establishment that regularly features
sexual devices, but not including any pharmacy, drug store, medical clinic, or
establishment primarily dedicated to providing medical or healthcare products
or services, and not including any commercial establishment that does not
restrict access to its premises by reason of age.
      SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise that, as one
of its principal business purposes, purports to offer for any form of
consideration physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
individuals of the opposite sex when one or more of the individuals is nude or
seminude.
      SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult bookstore, adult video store, adult
cabaret, adult motion picture theater, sexual device shop, or sexual encounter
center, but does not include a business solely by reason of its showing,
selling, or renting materials that may depict sex.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Includes human genitals, pubic region, and
buttocks and the human female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Sexual intercourse, oral copulation,
masturbation, or sodomy, or excretory functions as a part of or in connection
with any of these activities.
   (B)   No sexually oriented business shall be or remain open for business
between 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. on any day, except that a sexually
oriented business that holds a liquor permit pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4303 may
remain open until the hour specified in that permit if it does not conduct,
offer, or allow sexually oriented entertainment activity in which the
performers appear nude.
   (C)   (1)   No patron who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family
shall knowingly touch any employee while that employee is nude or seminude or
touch the clothing of any employee while that employee is nude or seminude.
      (2)   No employee who regularly appears nude or seminude on the premises
of a sexually oriented business, while on the premises of that sexually
oriented business and while nude or seminude, shall knowingly touch a patron
who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who
is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or the clothing of a patron
who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who
is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or allow a patron who is not
a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who is not a
member of the employee’s immediate family to touch the employee or the clothing
of the employee.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of illegally
operating a sexually oriented business, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of illegal
sexually oriented activity in a sexually oriented business. If the offender
touches a specified anatomical area of the patron or employee, or the clothing
covering a specified anatomical area, a violation of division (C) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender does not touch a
specified anatomical area of the patron or employee, or the clothing covering a
specified anatomical area, a violation of division (C) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2907.40)
Statutory reference:
   State indemnification for certain municipal liability stemming from local
adult business regulations, see R.C. § 715.55
§ 133.21 UNLAWFUL ADVERTISING OF MASSAGE.
   (A)   No person, by means of a statement, solicitation, or offer in a print
or electronic publication, sign, placard, storefront display, or other medium,
shall advertise massage, relaxation massage, any other massage technique or
method, or any related service, with the suggestion or promise of sexual
activity.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful advertising of
massage, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (C)   Nothing in this section prevents the municipality from enacting any
regulation of the advertising of massage further than and in addition to the
provisions of divisions (A) and (B) of this section.
   (D)   As used in this section, SEXUAL ACTIVITY has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2907.01.
(R.C. § 2927.17)
§ 133.22 NONCONSENSUAL DISSEMINATION OF PRIVATE SEXUAL IMAGES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CABLE SERVICE PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.01.
      DIRECT-TO-HOME SATELLITE SERVICE. Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. §
303, as amended.
      DISSEMINATE. Means to post, distribute, or publish on a computer device,
computer network, web site, or other electronic device or medium of
communication.
      IMAGE. Means a photograph, film, videotape, digital recording, or other
depiction or portrayal of a person.
      INTERACTIVE COMPUTER SERVICE. Has the meaning defined in the
“Telecommunications Act of 1996”, 47 U.S.C. § 230, as amended.
      INTERNET PROVIDER. Means a provider of internet service, including all of
the following:
         (a)   Broadband service, however defined or classified by the Federal
Communications Commission;
         (b)   Information service or telecommunications service, both as
defined in the “Telecommunications Act of 1996”, 47 U.S.C. § 153, as amended;
         (c)   Internet protocol-enabled services, as defined in R.C. §
4927.01.
      MOBILE SERVICE. Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153, as amended.
      SEXUAL ACT. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Sexual activity;
         (b)   Masturbation;
         (c)   An act involving a bodily substance that is performed for the
purpose of sexual arousal or gratification;
         (d)   Sado-masochistic abuse.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIER. Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153,
as amended.
      VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly disseminate an image of another person if
all of the following apply:
      (1)   The person in the image is 18 years of age or older.
      (2)   The person in the image can be identified from the image itself or
from information displayed in connection with the image and the offender
supplied the identifying information.
      (3)   The person in the image is in a state of nudity or is engaged in a
sexual act.
      (4)   The image is disseminated without consent from the person in the
image.
      (5)   The image is disseminated with intent to harm the person in the
image.
   (C)   This section does not prohibit the dissemination of an image if any of
the following apply:
      (1)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of a criminal
investigation that is otherwise lawful.
      (2)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of, or in connection
with, the reporting of unlawful conduct.
      (3)   The image is part of a news report or commentary or an artistic or
expressive work, such as a performance, work of art, literary work, theatrical
work, musical work, motion picture, film, or audiovisual work.
      (4)   The image is disseminated by a law enforcement officer, or a
corrections officer or guard in a detention facility, acting within the scope
of the person’s official duties.
      (5)   The image is disseminated for another lawful public purpose.
      (6)   The person in the image is knowingly and willingly in a state of
nudity or engaged in a sexual act and is knowingly and willingly in a location
in which the person does not have a reasonable expectation of privacy.
      (7)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of medical treatment or
examination.
   (D)   The following entities are not liable for a violation of this section
solely as a result of an image or other information provided by another person:
      (1)   A provider of interactive computer service;
      (2)   A mobile service;
      (3)   A telecommunications carrier;
      (4)   An internet provider;
      (5)   A cable service provider;
      (6)   A direct-to-home satellite service;
      (7)   A video service provider.
   (E)   Any conduct that is a violation of this section and any other section
of this Code or the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under this section, the
other section, or both sections.
   (F)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (F)(1)(b), (F)(1)
(c), or (F)(1)(d) of this section, whoever violates this section is guilty of
nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images, a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of this section or any substantially equivalent state law
or municipal ordinance, nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images is
a misdemeanor of the second degree.
         (c)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section or any substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, nonconsensual dissemination of
private sexual images is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (d)   If the offender is under 18 years of age and the person in the
image is not more than five years older than the offender, the offender shall
not be prosecuted under this section.
      (2)   In addition to any other penalty or disposition authorized or
required by law, the court may order any person who is convicted of a violation
of this section or who is adjudicated delinquent by reason of a violation of
this section to criminally forfeit all of the following property to the state
under R.C. Chapter 2981:
         (a)   Any profits or proceeds and any property the person has acquired
or maintained in violation of this section that the sentencing court determines
to have been acquired or maintained as a result of the violation;
         (b)   Any interest in, securities of, claim against, or property or
contractual right of any kind affording a source of influence over any
enterprise that the person has established, operated, controlled, or conducted
in violation of this section that the sentencing court determines to have been
acquired or maintained as a result of the violation.
   (G)   A victim of a violation of this section may commence a civil cause of
action against the offender, as described in R.C. § 2307.66.
(R.C. § 2917.211)
§ 133.23 GROOMING.
   (A)   As used in this section, PATTERN OF CONDUCT has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2903.211.
   (B)   No person who is 18 years of age or older shall engage in a pattern of
conduct with a minor who is less than 16 years of age and who is four or more
years younger than the person, when the pattern of conduct would cause a
reasonable adult person to believe that the person is communicating with the
minor with purpose to do either of the following:
      (1)   Entice, coerce, or solicit the minor to engage in sexual activity,
and when the person’s purpose in engaging in the pattern of conduct is to
entice, coerce, or solicit the minor to engage in sexual activity with the
person or a third person;
      (2)   Prepare the minor to engage in sexual activity, and when the
person’s purpose in engaging in the pattern of conduct is to prepare the minor
to engage in sexual activity with the person or a third person that would be a
violation of R.C. § 2907.02, 2907.03, 2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.06, or 2907.07.
   (C)   No person who is 18 years of age or older shall engage in a pattern of
conduct with a minor if the person and the minor are in any of the
relationships described in R.C. § 2907.03(A)(5) to (A)(13), when the pattern of
conduct would cause a reasonable adult person to believe that the person is
communicating with the minor with purpose to do either of the following:
      (1)   Entice, coerce, or solicit the minor to engage in sexual activity,
and when the person’s purpose in engaging in the pattern of conduct is to
entice, coerce, or solicit the minor to engage in sexual activity with the
person or a third person;
      (2)   Prepare the minor to engage in sexual activity, and when the
person’s purpose in engaging in the pattern of conduct is to prepare the minor
to engage in sexual activity with the person or a third person that would be a
violation of R.C. § 2907.02, 2907.03, 2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.06, or 2907.07.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of grooming.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of
division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
victim of the offense is less than 13 years of age or if the offender supplied
alcohol or a drug of abuse to the victim of the offense, a violation of
division (B) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law. If the victim of the offense is less than 13 years of age and if the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of
this section or a sexually oriented offense or a child-victim oriented offense
or the offender supplied alcohol or a drug of abuse to the victim of the
offense, a violation of division (B) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section or a sexually
oriented offense or a child- victim oriented offense and the offender supplied
alcohol or a drug of abuse to the victim of the offense, a violation of
division (B) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of
division (C) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender supplied alcohol or a drug of abuse to the victim of the offense, a
violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If the victim of the offense is less than 13 years of
age or if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a
violation of this section or a sexually oriented offense or a child- victim
oriented offense, a violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the victim of the offense is less
than 13 years of age and if the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to a violation of this section or a sexually oriented offense or
a child-victim oriented offense or the offender supplied alcohol or a drug of
abuse to the victim of the offense, a violation of division (C) of this section
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (E)   A prosecution for a violation of this section does not preclude a
prosecution of a violation of any other section of the this code or the Ohio
Revised Code. One or more acts, a series of acts, or a course of behavior that
can be prosecuted under this section or any other section of this code or the
Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under this section, the other section of
this code or the Revised Code, or both sections.
(R.C. § 2907.071)
§ 133.99 SENTENCING FOR SEXUALLY ORIENTED OFFENSES; SEXUAL PREDATORS;
REGISTRATION.
   (A)   If an offender is being sentenced for a sexually oriented offense or
child-victim oriented offense that is a misdemeanor committed on or after
January 1, 1997, and the offender is a tier III sex offender/child-victim
offender relative to the offense or the offense is any offense listed in R.C. §
2901.07(D)(1) to (D)(3), the judge shall include in the offender’s sentence a
statement that the offender is a tier III sex offender/child-victim offender,
shall comply with the requirements of R.C. § 2950.03, and shall require the
offender to submit to a DNA specimen collection procedure pursuant to R.C. §
2901.07.
   (B)   If an offender is being sentenced for a sexually oriented offense or a
child-victim oriented offense that is a misdemeanor committed on or after
January 1, 1997, the judge shall include in the sentence a summary of the
offender’s duties imposed under R.C. §§ 2950.04, 2950.041, 2950.05, and
2950.06, and the duration of the duties. The judge shall inform the offender,
at the time of sentencing, of those duties and of their duration. If required
under R.C. § 2950.03(A)(2), the judge shall perform the duties specified in
that section or, if required under R.C. § 2950.03(A)(6), the judge shall
perform the duties specified in that division.
(R.C. § 2929.23)
Cross-reference:
   Sentencing generally, see
Chapter 130
CHAPTER 134: GAMBLING
Section
   
134.01   Definitions
   
134.02   Prohibitions against gambling; exception
   
134.03   Operating a gambling house
   
134.04   Public gaming
   
134.05   Cheating
   
134.06   Regulations concerning operation of licensed bingo game
   
134.07   Records to be kept
   
134.08   Requirements for bingo game operators
   
134.09   Bingo games for amusement only
   
134.10   Prohibitions where instant bingo game is conducted
   
134.11   Raffle drawings
   
134.12   Instant bingo other than at bingo sessions
   
134.13   Restrictions on owner or lessor of location at instant bingo
   
134.14   Skill-based amusement machines; prohibited conduct
   
134.15   Electronic instant bingo; prohibited conduct
Statutory reference:
   Conducting an illegal bingo game, felony, see R.C. § 2915.07
   Licensing bingo games by Attorney General, see R.C. § 2915.08
   Licensing distributors of bingo supplies by Attorney General, see R.C. §
2915.081
   Licensing manufacturers of bingo supplies by Attorney General, see R.C. §
2915.082
§ 134.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BET. The hazarding of anything of value upon the result of an event,
undertaking, or contingency, but does not include a bona fide business risk.
   BINGO. Either of the following:
      (1)   A game with all of the following characteristics:
         (a)   The participants use bingo cards or sheets, including paper
formats and electronic representation or image formats, that are divided into
25 spaces arranged in five horizontal and five vertical rows of spaces, with
each space, except the central space, being designated by a combination of a
letter and a number and with the central space being designated as a free
space;
         (b)   The participants cover the spaces on the bingo cards or sheets
that correspond to combinations of letters and numbers that are announced by a
bingo game operator;
         (c)   A bingo game operator announces combinations of letters and
numbers that appear on objects that a bingo game operator selects by chance,
either manually or mechanically, from a receptacle that contains 75 objects at
the beginning of each game, each object marked by a different combination of a
letter and a number that corresponds to one of the 75 possible combinations of
a letter and a number that can appear on the bingo cards or sheets;
         (d)   The winner of the bingo game includes any participant who
properly announces during the interval between the announcements of letters and
numbers, as described in division (1)(c) of this definition, that a
predetermined and pre-announced pattern of spaces has been covered on a bingo
card or sheet being used by the participant.
      (2)   Instant bingo, electronic instant bingo, and raffles.
   BINGO GAME OPERATOR. Any person, except security personnel, who performs
work or labor at the site of bingo including but not limited to collecting
money from participants, handing out bingo cards or sheets or objects to cover
spaces on bingo cards or sheets, selecting from a receptacle the objects that
contain the combination of letters and numbers that appear on bingo cards or
sheets, calling out the combinations of letters and numbers, distributing
prizes, selling or redeeming instant bingo tickets or cards, selling or
redeeming electronic instant bingo tickets, credits, or vouchers, accessing an
electronic instant bingo system other than as a participant, supervising the
operation of a punch board, selling raffle tickets, selecting raffle tickets
from a receptacle and announcing the winning numbers in a raffle, and
preparing, selling, and serving food or beverages. “Bingo game operator” does
not include a person who is installing, maintaining, updating, or repairing an
electronic instant bingo system.
   BINGO SESSION. A period that includes both of the following:
      (1)   Not to exceed five continuous hours for the conduct of one or more
games described in division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in this section,
instant bingo, and electronic instant bingo;
      (2)   A period for the conduct of instant bingo and electronic instant
bingo for not more than two hours before and not more than two hours after the
period described in division (1) of this definition.
   BINGO SUPPLIES. Bingo cards or sheets; instant bingo tickets or cards;
electronic bingo aids; raffle tickets; punch boards; seal cards; instant bingo
ticket dispensers; electronic instant bingo systems; and devices for selecting
or displaying the combination of bingo letters and numbers or raffle tickets.
Items that are “bingo supplies” are not gambling devices if sold or otherwise
provided, and used, in accordance with this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915. For
purposes of this chapter, “bingo supplies” are not to be considered equipment
used to conduct a bingo game.
   BOOKMAKING. The business of receiving or paying off bets.
   CHAMBER OF COMMERCE. Any organization of individuals, professionals, and
businesses that has the purpose to advance the commercial, financial,
industrial, and civic interests of the community and that is, and has received
from the Internal Revenue Service a determination letter that currently is in
effect stating that the organization is, exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(6).
   CHARITABLE BINGO GAME. Any bingo game described in divisions (1) or (2) of
the definition of “bingo” in this section that is conducted by a charitable
organization that has obtained a license pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08 and the
proceeds of which are used for a charitable purpose.
   CHARITABLE INSTANT BINGO ORGANIZATION. An organization that is exempt from
federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3) and
is a charitable organization as defined in this section. The term does not
include a charitable organization that is exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3) and that is created by a
veteran’s organization, a fraternal organization, or a sporting organization in
regards to bingo conducted or assisted by a veteran’s organization, a fraternal
organization, or a sporting organization pursuant to R.C. § 2915.13, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, “charitable
organization” means either of the following:
         (a)   An organization that is exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3);
         (b)   A volunteer rescue service organization, volunteer firefighter’s
organization, veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC §§ 501(c)
(4), 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10) or 501(c)(19).
      (2)   To qualify as a charitable organization, an organization shall have
been in continuous existence as such in this state for a period of two years
immediately preceding either the making of an application for a bingo license
under R.C. § 2915.08 or the conducting of any game of chance as provided in
R.C. § 2915.02(D), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   CHARITABLE PURPOSE. Means that the net profit of bingo, other than instant
bingo or electronic instant bingo, is used by, or is given, donated, or
otherwise transferred to, any of the following:
      (1)   Any organization that is described in IRC §§ 509(a)(1), 509(a)(2),
or 509(a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an organization that is tax
exempt under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3);
      (2)   A veteran’s organization that is a post, chapter, or organization
of veterans, or an auxiliary unit or society of, or a trust or foundation for,
any such post, chapter, or organization organized in the United States or any
of its possessions, at least 75% of the members of which are veterans and
substantially all of the other members of which are individuals who are
spouses, widows, or widowers of veterans, or such individuals, provided that no
part of the net earnings of such post, chapter, or organization inures to the
benefit of any private shareholder or individual, and further provided that the
net profit is used by the post, chapter, or organization for the charitable
purposes set forth in R.C. § 5739.02(B)(12), is used for awarding scholarships
to or for attendance at an institution mentioned in that division of the Ohio
Revised Code, is donated to a governmental agency, or is used for nonprofit
youth activities, the purchase of United States or Ohio flags that are donated
to schools, youth groups, or other bona fide nonprofit organizations, promotion
of patriotism, or disaster relief;
      (3)   A fraternal organization that has been in continuous existence in
this state for 15 years and that uses the net profit exclusively for religious,
charitable, scientific, literary, or educational purposes, or for the
prevention of cruelty to children or animals, if contributions for such use
would qualify as a deductible charitable contribution under IRC § 170;
      (4)   A volunteer firefighter’s organization that uses the net profit for
the purposes set forth in the definition of “volunteer firefighter’s
organization” in this section.
   COMMUNITY ACTION AGENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 122.66.
   CONDUCT. To back, promote, organize, manage, carry on, sponsor, or prepare
for the operation of bingo or a game of chance, a scheme of chance, or a
sweepstakes.
   DEAL. A single game of instant bingo tickets, or a single game of electronic
instant bingo tickets, all with the same serial number.
   DISTRIBUTOR. Any person who purchases or obtains bingo supplies and who does
either of the following:
      (1)   Sells, offers for sale, or otherwise provides or offers to provide
the bingo supplies to another person for use in this state;
      (2)   Modifies, converts, adds to, or removes parts from the bingo
supplies to further their promotion or sale for use in this state.
   ELECTRONIC BINGO AID.
      (1)   An electronic device used by a participant to monitor bingo cards
or sheets purchased at the time and place of a bingo session and that does all
of the following:
         (a)   It provides a means for a participant to input numbers and
letters announced by a bingo caller.
         (b)   It compares the numbers and letters entered by the participant
to the bingo faces previously stored in the memory of the device.
         (c)   It identifies a winning bingo pattern.
      (2)   The term does not include any device into which a coin, currency,
token, or an equivalent is inserted to activate play.
   ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO.
      (1)   A form of bingo that consists of an electronic or digital
representation of instant bingo in which a participant wins a prize if the
participant’s electronic instant bingo ticket contains a combination of numbers
or symbols that was designated in advance as a winning combination, and to
which all of the following apply:
         (a)   Each deal has a predetermined, finite number of winning and
losing tickets and a predetermined prize amount and deal structure, provided
that there may be multiple winning combinations in each deal and multiple
winning tickets.
         (b)   Each electronic instant bingo ticket within a deal has a unique
serial number that is not regenerated.
         (c)   Each electronic instant bingo ticket within a deal is sold for
the same price.
         (d)   After a participant purchases an electronic instant bingo
ticket, the combination of numbers or symbols on the ticket is revealed to the
participant.
         (e)   The reveal of numbers or symbols on the ticket may incorporate
an entertainment or bonus theme, provided that the reveal does not include
spinning reels that resemble a slot machine.
         (f)   The reveal theme, if any, does not require additional
consideration or award any prize other than any predetermined prize associated
with the electronic instant bingo ticket.
      (2)   The term shall not include any of the following:
         (a)   Any game, entertainment, or bonus theme that replicates or
simulates any of the following:
            1.   The gambling games of keno, blackjack, roulette, poker, craps,
other casino-style table games;
            2.   Horse racing;
            3.   Gambling games offered in this state on slot machines or video
lottery terminals. As used in this division, “video lottery terminal” has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 3770.21.
         (b)   Any device operated by dropping one or more coins or tokens into
a slot and pulling a handle or pushing a button or touchpoint on a touchscreen
to activate one to three or more rotating reels marked into horizontal segments
by varying symbols, where the predetermined prize amount depends on how and how
many of the symbols line up when the rotating reels come to a rest;
         (c)   Any device that includes a coin or token slot, tray, or hopper
and the ability to dispense coins, cash, tokens, or anything of value other
than a credit ticket voucher.
   ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO SYSTEM. Means both of the following:
      (1)   A mechanical, electronic, digital, or video device and associated
software to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   It is used by not more than one player at a time to play
electronic instant bingo on a single screen that is physically connected to the
device;
         (b)   It is located on the premises of the principal place of business
of a veteran’s or fraternal organization that holds a type II or type III bingo
license to conduct electronic instant bingo at that location issued under R.C.
§ 2915.08.
      (2)   Any associated equipment or software used to manage, monitor, or
document any aspect of electronic instant bingo.
   EXPENSES. The reasonable amount of gross profit actually expended for all of
the following:
      (1)   The purchase or lease of bingo supplies;
      (2)   The annual license fee required under R.C. § 2915.08;
      (3)   Bank fees and service charges for a bingo session or game account
described in R.C. § 2915.10;
      (4)   Audits and accounting services;
      (5)   Safes;
      (6)   Cash registers;
      (7)   Hiring security personnel;
      (8)   Advertising bingo;
      (9)   Renting premises in which to conduct a bingo session;
      (10)   Tables and chairs;
      (11)   Expenses for maintaining and operating a charitable organization’s
facilities, including but not limited to a post home, club house, lounge,
tavern, or canteen and any grounds attached to the post home, club house,
lounge, tavern, or canteen;
      (12)   Payment of real property taxes and assessments that are levied on
a premises on which bingo is conducted;
      (13)   Any other product or service directly related to the conduct of
bingo that is authorized in rules adopted by the Attorney General under R.C. §
2915.08(F)(1).
   FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION. Any society, order, state headquarters, or
association within this state, except a college or high school fraternity, that
is not organized for profit, that is a branch, lodge, or chapter of a national
or state organization, that exists exclusively for the common business or
sodality of its members.
   GAMBLING DEVICE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A book, totalizer, or other equipment used for recording bets;
      (2)   A ticket, token, or other device representing a chance, share, or
interest in a scheme of chance or evidencing a bet;
      (3)   A deck of cards, dice, gaming table, roulette wheel, slot machine,
or other apparatus designed for use in connection with a game of chance;
      (4)   Any equipment, device, apparatus, or paraphernalia specially
designed for gambling purposes;
      (5)   Bingo supplies sold or otherwise provided, or used, in violation of
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
   GAMBLING OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. Chapter 2915;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States substantially equivalent to any
provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 or a violation of R.C. § 2915.06
as it existed prior to July 1, 1996;
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former municipal ordinance or law
of this or any other state or of the United States, of which gambling is an
element;
      (4)   A conspiracy or attempt to commit, or complicity in committing, any
offense under division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   GAME FLARE. The board or placard, or electronic representation of a board or
placard, that accompanies each deal of instant bingo or electronic instant
bingo tickets and that includes the following information for the game:
      (1)   The name of the game;
      (2)   The manufacturer’s name or distinctive logo;
      (3)   The form number;
      (4)   The ticket count;
      (5)   The prize structure, including the number of winning tickets by
denomination and the respective winning symbol or number combinations for the
winning tickets;
      (6)   The cost per play;
      (7)   The serial number of the game.
   GAME OF CHANCE. Poker, craps, roulette, or other game in which a player
gives anything of value in the hope of gain, the outcome of which is determined
largely by chance, but does not include bingo.
   GAME OF CHANCE CONDUCTED FOR PROFIT. Any game of chance designed to produce
income for the person who conducts or operates the game of chance, but does not
include bingo.
   GROSS ANNUAL REVENUES. The annual gross receipts derived from the conduct of
bingo described in division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in this section
plus the annual net profit derived from the conduct of bingo described in
division (2) of the definition of “bingo” in this section.
   GROSS PROFIT. Gross receipts minus the amount actually expended for the
payment of prize awards.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. All money or assets, including admission fees, that a person
receives from bingo without the deduction of any amounts for prizes paid out or
for the expenses of conducting bingo. The term does not include any money
directly taken in from the sale of food or beverages by a charitable
organization conducting bingo, or by a bona fide auxiliary unit or society of a
charitable organization conducting bingo, provided all of the following apply:
      (1)   The auxiliary unit or society has been in existence as a bona fide
auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization for at least two years
prior to conducting bingo.
      (2)   The person who purchases the food or beverage receives nothing of
value except the food or beverage and items customarily received with the
purchase of that food or beverage.
      (3)   The food and beverages are sold at customary and reasonable prices.
   HISTORIC RAILROAD. All or a portion of the tracks and right-of-way of a
railroad that was owned and operated by a for profit common carrier in this
state at any time prior to January 1, 1950.
   INSTANT BINGO. A form of bingo that shall use folded or banded tickets or
paper cards with perforated break-open tabs, a face of which is covered or
otherwise hidden from view to conceal a number, letter, or symbol, or set of
numbers, letters, or symbols, some of which have been designated in advance as
prize winners, and may also include games in which some winners are determined
by the random selection of one or more bingo numbers by the use of a seal card
or bingo blower. “Instant bingo” also includes a punch board game. In all
“instant bingo” the prize amount and structure shall be predetermined. The term
does not include electronic instant bingo or any device that is activated by
the insertion of a coin, currency, token, or an equivalent, and that contains
as one of its components a video display monitor that is capable of displaying
numbers, letters, symbols, or characters in winning or losing combinations.
   INSTANT BINGO TICKET DISPENSER. A mechanical device that dispenses an
instant bingo ticket or card as the sole item of value dispensed and that has
the following characteristics:
      (1)   It is activated upon the insertion of United States currency.
      (2)   It performs no gaming functions.
      (3)   It does not contain a video display monitor or generate noise.
      (4)   It is not capable of displaying any numbers, letters, symbols, or
characters in winning or losing combinations.
      (5)   It does not simulate or display rolling or spinning reels.
      (6)   It is incapable of determining whether a dispensed bingo ticket or
card is a winning or non-winning ticket or card and requires a winning ticket
or card to be paid by a bingo game operator.
      (7)   It may provide accounting and security features to aid in
accounting for the instant bingo tickets or cards it dispenses.
      (8)   It is not part of an electronic network and is not interactive.
   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE (IRC). The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 100 Stat.
2085, 26 U.S.C. §§ 1 et seq., as now or hereafter amended.
   MANUFACTURER. Any person who assembles completed bingo supplies from raw
materials, other items, or subparts or who modifies, converts, adds to, or
removes parts from bingo supplies to further their promotion or sale.
   MERCHANDISE PRIZE. Any item of value, but shall not include any of the
following:
      (1)   Cash, gift cards, or any equivalent thereof;
      (2)   Plays on games of chance, state lottery tickets, or bingo;
      (3)   Firearms, tobacco, or alcoholic beverages; or
      (4)   A redeemable voucher that is redeemable for any of the items listed
in division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   NET PROFIT. Gross profit minus expenses.
   NET PROFIT FROM THE PROCEEDS OF THE SALE OF INSTANT BINGO OR ELECTRONIC
INSTANT BINGO. Gross profit minus the ordinary, necessary, and reasonable
expense expended for the purchase of bingo supplies for the purpose of
conducting instant bingo or electronic instant bingo, and, in the case of
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conducted by a veteran’s, fraternal,
or sporting organization, minus the payment by that organization of real
property taxes and assessments levied on a premises on which instant bingo or
electronic instant bingo is conducted.
   PARTICIPANT. Any person who plays bingo.
   PERSON. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1.59 and includes any firm or any
other legal entity, however organized.
   POOL NOT CONDUCTED FOR PROFIT. A scheme in which a participant gives a
valuable consideration for a chance to win a prize and the total amount of
consideration wagered is distributed to a participant or participants.
   PUNCH BOARD. A form of instant bingo that uses a board containing a number
of holes or receptacles of uniform size in which are placed, mechanically and
randomly, serially numbered slips of paper that may be punched or drawn from
the hole or receptacle. A player may punch or draw the numbered slips of paper
from the holes or receptacles and obtain the prize established for the game if
the number drawn corresponds to a winning number or, if the punch board
includes the use of a seal card, a potential winning number.
   RAFFLE. A form of bingo in which the one or more prizes are won by one or
more persons who have purchased a raffle ticket. The one or more winners of the
raffle are determined by drawing a ticket stub or other detachable section from
a receptacle containing ticket stubs or detachable sections corresponding to
all tickets sold for the raffle. The term does not include the drawing of a
ticket stub or other detachable section of a ticket purchased to attend a
professional sporting event if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The ticket stub or other detachable section is used to select the
winner of a free prize given away at the professional sporting event; and
      (2)   The cost of the ticket is the same as the cost of a ticket to the
professional sporting event on days when no free prize is given away.
   REDEEMABLE VOUCHER. Any ticket, token, coupon, receipt, or other noncash
representation of value.
   RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION. Any church, body of communicants, or group that is
not organized or operated for profit and that gathers in common membership for
regular worship and religious observances.
   REVOKE. To void permanently all rights and privileges of the holder of a
license issued under R.C. § 2915.08, 2915.081, or 2915.082 or a charitable
gaming license issued by another jurisdiction.
   SCHEME OF CHANCE.
      (1)   A slot machine unless authorized under R.C. Chapter 3772, lottery
unless authorized under R.C. Chapter 3770, numbers game, pool conducted for
profit, or other scheme in which a participant gives a valuable consideration
for a chance to win a prize, but does not include bingo, a skill-based
amusement machine, or a pool not conducted for profit. “Scheme of chance”
includes the use of an electronic device to reveal the results of a game entry
if valuable consideration is paid, directly or indirectly, for a chance to win
a prize. Valuable consideration is deemed to be paid for a chance to win a
prize in the following instances:
         (a)   Less than 50% of the goods or services sold by a scheme of
chance operator in exchange for game entries are used or redeemed by
participants at any one location;
         (b)   Less than 50% of participants who purchase goods or services at
any one location do not accept, use, or redeem the goods or services sold or
purportedly sold;
         (c)   More than 50% of prizes at any one location are revealed to
participants through an electronic device simulating a game of chance or a
“casino game” as defined in R.C. § 3772.01;
         (d)   The good or service sold by a scheme of chance operator in
exchange for a game entry cannot be used or redeemed in the manner advertised;
         (e)   A participant pays more than fair market value for goods or
services offered by a scheme of chance operator in order to receive one or more
game entries;
         (f)   A participant may use the electronic device to purchase
additional game entries;
         (g)   A participant may purchase additional game entries by using
points or credits won as prizes while using the electronic device;
         (h)   A scheme of chance operator pays out in prize money more than
20% of the gross revenue received at one location; or
         (i)   A participant makes a purchase or exchange in order to obtain
any good or service that may be used to facilitate play on the electronic
device.
      (2)   As used in this division, “electronic device” means a mechanical,
video, digital, or electronic machine or device that is capable of displaying
information on a screen or other mechanism and that is owned, leased, or
otherwise possessed by any person conducting a scheme of chance, or by that
person’s partners, affiliates, subsidiaries, or contractors. “Electronic
device” does not include an electronic instant bingo system.
   SEAL CARD. A form of instant bingo that uses instant bingo tickets in
conjunction with a board or placard that contains one or more seals that, when
removed or opened, reveal predesignated winning numbers, letters, or symbols.
   SECURITY PERSONNEL. Includes any person who either is a Sheriff, deputy
sheriff, Marshal, deputy marshal, township constable, or member of an organized
police department of a municipal corporation or has successfully completed a
peace officer’s training course pursuant to R.C. §§ 109.71 through 109.79 and
who is hired to provide security for the premises on which bingo is conducted.
   SKILL-BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINE.
      (1)   (a)   A mechanical, video, digital, or electronic device that
rewards the player or players, if at all, only with merchandise prizes or with
redeemable vouchers redeemable only for merchandise prizes, provided that with
respect to rewards for playing the game all of the following apply:
            1.   The wholesale value of a merchandise prize awarded as a result
of the single play of a machine does not exceed $10;
            2.   Redeemable vouchers awarded for any single play of a machine
are not redeemable for a merchandise prize with a wholesale value of more than
$10;
            3.   Redeemable vouchers are not redeemable for a merchandise prize
that has a wholesale value of more than $10 times the fewest number of single
plays necessary to accrue the redeemable vouchers required to obtain that
prize; and
            4.   Any redeemable vouchers or merchandise prizes are distributed
at the site of the skill-based amusement machine at the time of play.
         (b)   A card for the purchase of gasoline is a redeemable voucher for
purposes of division (1) of this definition even if the skill-based amusement
machine for the play of which the card is awarded is located at a place where
gasoline may not be legally distributed to the public or the card is not
redeemable at the location of, or at the time of playing, the skill-based
amusement machine.
      (2)   A device shall not be considered a skill-based amusement machine
and shall be considered a slot machine if it pays cash or one or more of the
following apply:
         (a)   The ability of a player to succeed at the game is impacted by
the number or ratio of prior wins to prior losses of players playing the game;
         (b)   Any reward of redeemable vouchers is not based solely on the
player achieving the object of the game or the player’s score;
         (c)   The outcome of the game, or the value of the redeemable voucher
or merchandise prize awarded for winning the game, can be controlled by a
source other than any player playing the game;
         (d)   The success of any player is or may be determined by a chance
event that cannot be altered by player actions;
         (e)   The ability of any player to succeed at the game is determined
by game features not visible or known to the player;
         (f)   The ability of the player to succeed at the game is impacted by
the exercise of a skill that no reasonable player could exercise.
      (3)   All of the following apply to any machine that is operated as
described in division (1) of this definition:
         (a)   As used in this definition of “skill-based amusement machine”,
GAME and PLAY mean one event from the initial activation of the machine until
the results of play are determined without payment of additional consideration.
An individual utilizing a machine that involves a single game, play, contest,
competition, or tournament may be awarded redeemable vouchers or merchandise
prizes based on the results of play.
         (b)   Advance play for a single game, play, contest, competition, or
tournament participation may be purchased. The cost of the contest,
competition, or tournament participation may be greater than a single non-
contest, competition, or tournament play.
         (c)   To the extent that the machine is used in a contest,
competition, or tournament, that contest, competition, or tournament has a
defined starting and ending date and is open to participants in competition for
scoring and ranking results toward the awarding of redeemable vouchers or
merchandise prizes that are stated prior to the start of the contest,
competition, or tournament.
      (4)   For purposes of division (1) of this definition, the mere presence
of a device, such as a pin-setting, ball-releasing, or scoring mechanism, that
does not contribute to or affect the outcome of the play of the game does not
make the device a skill-based amusement machine.
   SLOT MACHINE.
      (1)   Either of the following:
         (a)   Any mechanical, electronic, video, or digital device that is
capable of accepting anything of value, directly or indirectly, from or on
behalf of a player who gives the thing of value in the hope of gain;
         (b)   Any mechanical, electronic, video, or digital device that is
capable of accepting anything of value, directly or indirectly, from or on
behalf of a player to conduct bingo or a scheme or game of chance.
      (2)   The term does not include a skill-based amusement machine, an
instant bingo ticket dispenser, or an electronic instant bingo system.
   SPORTING ORGANIZATION. A hunting, fishing, or trapping organization, other
than a college or high school fraternity or sorority, that is not organized for
profit, that is affiliated with a state or national sporting organization,
including but not limited to the League of Ohio Sportsmen, and that has been in
continuous existence in this state for a period of three years.
   SUSPEND. To interrupt temporarily all rights and privileges of the holder of
a license issued under R.C. § 2915.08, 2915.081, or 2915.082 or a charitable
gaming license issued by another jurisdiction.
   SWEEPSTAKES. Any game, contest, advertising scheme or plan, or other
promotion where consideration is not required for a person to enter to win or
become eligible to receive any prize, the determination of which is based upon
chance. “Sweepstakes” does not include bingo as authorized under R.C. Chapter
2915, pari-mutuel wagering as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3769, lotteries
conducted by the State Lottery Commission as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3770,
and casino gaming as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3772.
   SWEEPSTAKES TERMINAL DEVICE.
      (1)   A mechanical, video, digital, or electronic machine or device that
is owned, leased, or otherwise possessed by any person conducting a
sweepstakes, or by that person’s partners, affiliates, subsidiaries, or
contractors, that is intended to be used by a sweepstakes participant, and that
is capable of displaying information on a screen or other mechanism. A device
is a sweepstakes terminal device if any of the following apply:
         (a)   The device uses a simulated game terminal as a representation of
the prizes associated with the results of the sweepstakes entries.
         (b)   The device utilizes software such that the simulated game
influences or determines the winning of or value of the prize.
         (c)   The device selects prizes from a predetermined finite pool of
entries.
         (d)   The device utilizes a mechanism that reveals the content of a
predetermined sweepstakes entry.
         (e)   The device predetermines the prize results and stores those
results for delivery at the time the sweepstakes entry results are revealed.
         (f)   The device utilizes software to create a game result.
         (g)   The device reveals the prize incrementally, even though the
device does not influence the awarding of the prize or the value of any prize
awarded.
         (h)   The device determines and associates the prize with an entry or
entries at the time the sweepstakes is entered.
      (2)   As used in this definition and in §
134.02:
         ENTER. The act by which a person becomes eligible to receive any prize
offered in a sweepstakes.
         ENTRY. One event from the initial activation of the sweepstakes
terminal device until all the sweepstakes prize results from that activation
are revealed.
         PRIZE. Any gift, award, gratuity, good, service, credit, reward, or
any other thing of value that may be transferred to a person, whether
possession of the prize is actually transferred, or placed on an account or
other record as evidence of the intent to transfer the prize.
         SWEEPSTAKES TERMINAL DEVICE FACILITY. Any location in this state where
a sweepstakes terminal device is provided to a sweepstakes participant, except
as provided in § 134.02(G) and R.C. § 2915.02(G).
   VETERAN’S ORGANIZATION. Any individual post or state headquarters of a
national veteran’s association or an auxiliary unit of any individual post of a
national veteran’s association, which post, state headquarters, or auxiliary
unit is incorporated as a nonprofit corporation and either has received a
letter from the state headquarters of the national veteran’s association
indicating that the individual post or auxiliary unit is in good standing with
the national veteran’s association or has received a letter from the national
veteran’s association indicating that the state headquarters is in good
standing with the national veteran’s association. As used in this definition,
NATIONAL VETERAN’S ASSOCIATION means any veteran’s association that has been in
continuous existence as such for a period of at least five years and either is
incorporated by an act of the United States Congress or has a national dues-
paying membership of at least 5,000 persons.
   VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTER’S ORGANIZATION. Any organization of volunteer
firefighters, as defined in R.C. § 146.01, that is organized and operated
exclusively to provide financial support for a volunteer fire department or a
volunteer fire company and that is recognized or ratified by a county,
municipal corporation, or township.
   VOLUNTEER RESCUE SERVICE ORGANIZATION. Any organization of volunteers
organized to function as an emergency medical service organization, as defined
in R.C. § 4765.01.
   YOUTH ATHLETIC ORGANIZATION. Any organization, not organized for profit,
that is organized and operated exclusively to provide financial support to, or
to operate, athletic activities for persons who are 21 years of age or younger
by means of sponsoring, organizing, operating, or contributing to the support
of an athletic team, club, league, or association.
   YOUTH ATHLETIC PARK ORGANIZATION. Any organization, not organized for
profit, that satisfies both of the following:
      (1)   It owns, operates, and maintains playing fields that satisfy both
of the following:
         (a)   The playing fields are used for athletic activities by one or
more organizations, not organized for profit, each of which is organized and
operated exclusively to provide financial support to, or to operate, athletic
activities for persons who are 18 years of age or younger by means of
sponsoring, organizing, operating, or contributing to the support of an
athletic team, club, league, or association.
         (b)   The playing fields are not used for any profit-making activity
at any time during the year.
      (2)   It uses the proceeds of bingo it conducts exclusively for the
operation, maintenance, and improvement of its playing fields of the type
described in division (1) of this definition.
(R.C. § 2915.01)
§ 134.02 PROHIBITIONS AGAINST GAMBLING; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Engage in bookmaking, or knowingly engage in conduct that
facilitates bookmaking.
      (2)   Establish, promote, or operate or knowingly engage in conduct that
facilitates any game of chance conducted for profit or any scheme of chance.
      (3)   Knowingly procure, transmit, exchange, or engage in conduct that
facilitates the procurement, transmission, or exchange of information for use
in establishing odds or determining winners in connection with bookmaking or
with any game of chance conducted for profit or any scheme of chance.
      (4)   Engage in betting or in playing any scheme or game of chance as a
substantial source of income or livelihood.
      (5)   Conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a sweepstakes with the
use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes terminal device facility
and either:
         (a)   Give to another person any item described in R.C. § 2915.01(VV)
(1), (VV)(2), (VV)(3), or (VV)(4) as a prize for playing or participating in a
sweepstakes; or
         (b)   Give to another person any merchandise prize, or a redeemable
voucher for a merchandise prize, the wholesale value of which is in excess of
$10 and which is awarded as a single entry for playing or participating in a
sweepstakes. Redeemable vouchers shall not be redeemable for a merchandise
prize that has a wholesale value of more than $10.
      (6)   Conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a sweepstakes with the
use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes terminal device facility
without first obtaining a current annual “certificate of registration” from the
Attorney General as required by R.C. § 2915.02(F).
      (7)   With purpose to violate division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
(A)(5), or (A)(6) of this section, acquire, possess, control, or operate any
gambling device.
   (B)   For purposes of division (A)(1) of this section, a person facilitates
bookmaking if the person in any way knowingly aids an illegal bookmaking
operation, including, without limitation, placing a bet with a person engaged
in or facilitating illegal bookmaking. For purposes of division (A)(2) of this
section, a person facilitates a game of chance conducted for profit or a scheme
of chance if the person in any way knowingly aids in the conduct or operation
of any such game or scheme, including, without limitation, playing any such
game or scheme.
   (C)   This section does not prohibit conduct in connection with gambling
expressly permitted by law.
   (D)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   Games of chance, if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The games of chance are not craps for money or roulette for
money.
         (b)   The games of chance are conducted by a charitable organization
that is and has received from the Internal Revenue Service a determination
letter that is currently in effect, stating that the organization is exempt
from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3).
         (c)   The games of chance are conducted at festivals of the charitable
organization that are conducted not more than a total of five days a calendar
year, and are conducted on premises owned by the charitable organization for a
period of no less than one year immediately preceding the conducting of the
games of chance, on premises leased from a governmental unit, or on premises
that are leased from a veteran's or fraternal organization and that have been
owned by the lessor veteran's or fraternal organization for a period of no less
than one year immediately preceding the conducting of the games of chance. A
charitable organization shall not lease premises from a veteran's or fraternal
organization to conduct a festival described in this division, if the veteran's
or fraternal organization already has leased the premises twelve times during
the preceding year to charitable organizations for that purpose. If a
charitable organization leases premises from a veteran's or fraternal
organization to conduct a festival described in this division, the charitable
organization shall not pay a rental rate for the premises per day of the
festival that exceeds the rental rate per bingo session that a charitable
organization may pay under R.C. § 2915.09(B)(1) or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance when it leases premises from another charitable
organization to conduct bingo games.
         (d)   All of the money or assets received from the games of chance
after deduction only of prizes paid out during the conduct of the games of
chance are used by, given, donated or otherwise transferred to any organization
that is described in IRC 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a
governmental unit or an organization that is tax exempt under IRC 501(a) and
described in IRC 501(c)(3).
         (e)   The games of chance are not conducted during or within ten hours
of a bingo game conducted for amusement purposes only pursuant to R.C. §
2915.12 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance. No person shall
receive any commission, wage, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity, or other
form of compensation, directly or indirectly, for operating or assisting in the
operation of any game of chance.
      (2)   Any tag fishing tournament, as defined in R.C. § 1531.01, operated
under a permit issued under R.C. § 1533.92.
      (3)   Bingo conducted by a charitable organization that holds a license
issued under R.C. § 2915.08.
   (E)   Division (D) of this section shall not be construed to authorize the
sale, lease, or other temporary or permanent transfer of the right to conduct
games of chance, as granted by that division, by any charitable organization
that is granted that right.
   (F)   Any person desiring to conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a
sweepstakes with the use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes
terminal device facility shall first register with the Office of the Attorney
General and obtain an annual certificate of registration by providing a filing
fee of $200 and all information as required by rule adopted under R.C. §
2915.02(H). Not later than the tenth day of each month, each sweepstakes
terminal device operator shall file a sweepstakes terminal device monthly
report with the Attorney General and provide a filing fee of $50 and all
information required by rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.02(H). All information
provided to the Attorney General under this division shall be available to law
enforcement upon request.
   (G)   (1)   A person may apply to the Attorney General, on a form prescribed
by the Attorney General, for a certificate of compliance that the person is not
operating a sweepstakes terminal device facility. The form shall require the
person to include the address of the business location where sweepstakes
terminal devices will be used and to make the following certifications:
         (a)   That the person will not use more than two sweepstakes terminal
devices at the business location;
         (b)   That the retail value of sweepstakes prizes to be awarded at the
business location using sweepstakes terminal devices during a reporting period
will be less than 3% of the gross revenue received at the business location
during the reporting period;
         (c)   That no other form of gaming except lottery ticket sales as
authorized under R.C. Chapter 3770 will be conducted at the business location
or in an adjoining area of the business location;
         (d)   That any sweepstakes terminal device at the business location
will not allow any deposit of any money, coin, or token, or the use of any
credit card, debit card, prepaid card, or any other method of similar payment
to be used, directly or indirectly, to participate in a sweepstakes;
         (e)   That notification of any prize will not take place on the same
day as a participant’s sweepstakes entry; and
         (f)   That the person consents to provide any other information to the
Attorney General as required by rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.02(H).
      (2)   The filing fee for a certificate of compliance is $250. The
Attorney General may charge up to an additional $250 for reasonable expenses
resulting from any investigation related to an application for a certificate of
compliance.
      (3)   A certificate of compliance is effective for one year. The
certificate holder may reapply for a certificate of compliance. A person issued
a certificate of compliance shall file semiannual reports with the Attorney
General stating the number of sweepstakes terminal devices at the business
location and that the retail value of prizes awarded at the business location
using sweepstakes terminal devices is less than 3% of the gross revenue
received at the business location.
   (H)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of gambling, a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling
offense, gambling is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
Notwithstanding this division, failing to file a sweepstakes terminal device
monthly report as required by division (F) of this section or the semiannual
report required by division (G) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 2915.02(A) - (G), (K))
§ 134.03 OPERATING A GAMBLING HOUSE.
   (A)   No person, being the owner or lessee, or having custody, control, or
supervision of premises, shall:
      (1)   Use or occupy the premises for gambling in violation of R.C. §
2915.02 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   Recklessly permit the premises to be used or occupied for gambling
in violation of R.C. § 2915.02 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of operating a
gambling house, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously
has been convicted of a gambling offense, operating a gambling house is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   Premises used or occupied in violation of this section constitute a
nuisance subject to abatement under R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2915.03)
§ 134.04 PUBLIC GAMING.
   (A)   No person, while at a hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall,
or other place of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort shall
make a bet or play any game of chance or scheme of chance.
   (B)   No person, being the owner or lessee, or having custody, control, or
supervision of a hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall, or other place
of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort shall recklessly permit
those premises to be used or occupied in violation of division (A) of this
section.
   (C)   Divisions (A) and (B) of this section do not prohibit conduct in
connection with gambling expressly permitted by law.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of public gaming. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, public gaming is a minor misdemeanor. If
the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling offense, public
gaming is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (E)   Premises used or occupied in violation of division (B) of this section
constitute a nuisance subject to abatement under R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2915.04)
§ 134.05 CHEATING.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall engage in conduct designed to corrupt the outcome
of any of the following:
      (1)   The subject of a bet.
      (2)   A contest of knowledge, skill, or endurance that is not an athletic
or sporting event.
      (3)   A scheme or game of chance.
      (4)   Bingo.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Offer, give, solicit, or accept anything of value to corrupt the
outcome of an athletic or sporting event.
      (2)   Engage in conduct designed to corrupt the outcome of an athletic or
sporting event.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
cheating. Except as otherwise provided in this division, cheating is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the potential gain from the cheating is
$1,000 or more or if the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling
offense or of any theft offense as defined in R.C. § 2913.01, cheating is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
corrupting sports. Corrupting sports is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.05)
§ 134.06 REGULATIONS CONCERNING OPERATION OF LICENSED BINGO GAME.
   (A)   No charitable organization that conducts bingo shall fail to do any of
the following:
      (1)   Own all of the equipment used to conduct bingo or lease that
equipment from a charitable organization that is licensed to conduct bingo, or
from the landlord of a premises where bingo is conducted, for a rental rate
that is not more than is customary and reasonable for that equipment;
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(3) of this section,
use all of the gross receipts from bingo for paying prizes, for reimbursement
of expenses for or for renting premises in which to conduct bingo, for
reimbursement of expenses for or for purchasing or leasing bingo supplies used
in conducting bingo, for reimbursement of expenses for or for hiring security
personnel, for reimbursement of expenses for or for advertising bingo, or for
reimbursement of other expenses or for other expenses listed in the definition
for “expenses” in R.C. § 2915.01, provided that the amount of the receipts so
spent is not more than is customary and reasonable for a similar purchase,
lease, hiring, advertising, or expense. If the building in which bingo is
conducted is owned by the charitable organization conducting bingo and the
bingo conducted includes a form of bingo described in division (1) of the
definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01, the charitable organization may deduct
from the total amount of the gross receipts from each session a sum equal to
the lesser of $600 or 45% of the gross receipts from the bingo described in
that division as consideration for the use of the premises;
      (3)   Use, or give, donate, or otherwise transfer, all of the net profit
derived from bingo described in R.C. § 2915.01(O)(1) for a charitable purpose
listed in its license application and described in R.C. § 2915.01(V), or
distribute all of the net profit from the proceeds of the sale of instant bingo
or electronic instant bingo as stated in its license application and in
accordance with R.C. § 2915.101, as applicable.
   (B)   No charitable organization that conducts a bingo game described in
division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01 shall fail to do
any of the following:
      (1)   Conduct the bingo game on premises that are owned by the charitable
organization, on premises that are owned by another charitable organization and
leased from that charitable organization for a rental rate not in excess of the
lesser of $650 per bingo session or 45% of the gross receipts of the bingo
session, on premises that are leased from a person other than a charitable
organization for a rental rate that is not more than is customary and
reasonable for premises that are similar in location, size, and quality but not
in excess of $450 per bingo session, or on premises that are owned by a person
other than a charitable organization, that are leased from that person by
another charitable organization, and that are subleased from that other
charitable organization by the charitable organization for a rental rate not in
excess of $450 per bingo session. No charitable organization is required to pay
property taxes or assessments on premises that the charitable organization
leases from another person to conduct bingo sessions. If the charitable
organization leases from a person other than a charitable organization the
premises on which it conducts bingo sessions, the lessor of the premises shall
provide only the premises to the organization and shall not provide the
organization with bingo game operators, security personnel, concessions or
concession operators, bingo supplies, or any other type of service. A
charitable organization shall not lease or sublease premises that it owns or
leases to more than three other charitable organizations per calendar week for
conducting bingo sessions on the premises. A person that is not a charitable
organization shall not lease premises that it owns, leases, or otherwise is
empowered to lease to more than three charitable organizations per calendar
week for conducting bingo sessions on the premises. In no case shall more than
nine bingo sessions be conducted on any premises in any calendar week;
      (2)   Display its license conspicuously at the premises where the bingo
session is conducted;
      (3)   Conduct the bingo session in accordance with division (1) of the
definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01.
   (C)   No charitable organization that conducts a bingo game described in
division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01 shall not do any of
the following:
      (1)   Pay any compensation to a bingo game operator for operating a bingo
session that is conducted by the charitable organization or for preparing,
selling, or serving food or beverages at the site of the bingo session, permit
any auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization to pay
compensation to any bingo game operator who prepares, sells, or serves food or
beverages at a bingo session conducted by the charitable organization, or
permit any auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization to prepare,
sell, or serve food or beverages at a bingo session conducted by the charitable
organization, if the auxiliary unit or society pays any compensation to the
bingo game operators who prepare, sell, or serve the food or beverages;
      (2)   Pay consulting fees to any person for any services performed in
relation to the bingo session;
      (3)   Pay concession fees to any person who provides refreshments to the
participants in the bingo session;
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(4) of this section,
conduct more than three bingo sessions in any seven-day period. A volunteer
firefighter's organization or a volunteer rescue service organization that
conducts not more than five bingo sessions in a calendar year may conduct more
than three bingo sessions in a seven-day period after notifying the Attorney
General when it will conduct the sessions;
      (5)   Pay out more than $6,000 in prizes for bingo games described in
R.C. § 2915.01(S)(1) during any bingo session that is conducted by the
charitable organization. “Prizes” does not include awards from the conduct of
instant bingo.
      (6)   Conduct a bingo session at any time during the eight-hour period
between 2:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m., at any time during, or within ten hours of, a
bingo game conducted for amusement only pursuant to R.C. § 2915.12 or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, at any premises not specified on
its license, or on any day of the week or during any time period not specified
on its license. This division does not prohibit the sale of instant bingo
tickets beginning at 9:00 a.m. for a bingo session that begins at 10:00 a.m. If
circumstances make it impractical for the charitable organization to conduct a
bingo session at the premises, or on the day of the week or at the time
specified on its license or if a charitable organization wants to conduct bingo
sessions on a day of the week or at a time other than the day or time specified
on its license, the charitable organization may apply in writing to the
Attorney General for an amended license pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08(J). A
charitable organization may apply twice in each calendar year for an amended
license to conduct bingo sessions on a day of the week or at a time other than
the day or time specified on its license. If the amended license is granted,
the organization may conduct bingo sessions at the premises, on the day of the
week, and at the time specified on its amended license;
      (7)   Permit any person whom the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, is under the age of 18 to work as a bingo game operator;
      (8)   Permit any person whom the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any
jurisdiction to be a bingo game operator;
      (9)   Permit the lessor of the premises on which the bingo session is
conducted, if the lessor is not a charitable organization, to provide the
charitable organization with bingo game operators, security personnel,
concessions, bingo supplies, or any other type of service;
      (10)   Purchase or lease bingo supplies from any person except a
distributor issued a license under R.C. § 2915.081;
      (11)   (a)   Use or permit the use of electronic bingo aids except under
the following circumstances:
            1.   For any single participant, not more than 90 bingo faces can
be played using an electronic bingo aid or aids.
            2.   The charitable organization shall provide a participant using
an electronic bingo aid with corresponding paper bingo cards or sheets.
            3.   The total price of bingo faces played with an electronic bingo
aid shall be equal to the total price of the same number of bingo faces played
with a paper bingo card or sheet sold at the same bingo session but without an
electronic bingo aid.
            4.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be part of an electronic
network other than a network that includes only bingo aids and devices that are
located on the premises at which the bingo is being conducted or be interactive
with any device not located on the premises at which the bingo is being
conducted.
            5.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be used to participate in bingo
that is conducted at a location other than the location at which the bingo
session is conducted and at which the electronic bingo aid is used.
            6.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be used to provide for the
input of numbers and letters announced by a bingo caller other than the bingo
caller who physically calls the numbers and letters at the location at which
the bingo session is conducted and at which the electronic bingo aid is used.
         (b)   The Attorney General may adopt rules in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 119 that govern the use of electronic bingo aids. The rules may include
a requirement that an electronic bingo aid be capable of being audited by the
Attorney General to verify the number of bingo cards or sheets played during
each bingo session.
      (12)   Permit any person the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, to be under 18 years of age to play bingo described in division (1)
of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01.
   (D)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) of this section,
no charitable organization shall provide to a bingo game operator, and no bingo
game operator shall receive or accept, any commission, wage, salary, reward,
tip, donation, gratuity, or other form of compensation, directly or indirectly,
regardless of the source, for conducting bingo or providing other work or labor
at the site of bingo during a bingo session.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) of this section, no
charitable organization shall provide to a bingo game operator any commission,
wage, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity, or other form of compensation,
directly or indirectly regardless of the source, for conducting instant bingo,
electronic instant bingo, or both other than at a bingo session at the site of
instant bingo, electronic instant bingo, or both other than at a bingo session.
      (3)   Nothing in this division (D) of this section prohibits an employee
of a fraternal organization, veteran's organization, or sporting organization
from selling instant bingo tickets or cards to the organization's members or
invited guests, as long as no portion of the employee's compensation is paid
from any receipts of bingo.
   (E)   Notwithstanding division (B)(1) of this section, a charitable
organization that, prior to December 6, 1977, has entered into written
agreements for the lease of premises it owns to another charitable organization
or other charitable organizations for the conducting of bingo sessions so that
more than two bingo sessions are conducted per calendar week on the premises,
and a person that is not a charitable organization and that, prior to December
6, 1977, has entered into written agreements for the lease of premises it owns
to charitable organizations for the conducting of more than two bingo sessions
per calendar week on the premises, may continue to lease the premises to those
charitable organizations, provided that no more than four sessions are
conducted per calendar week, that the lessor organization or person has
notified the Attorney General in writing of the organizations that will conduct
the sessions and the days of the week and the times of the day on which the
sessions will be conducted, that the initial lease entered into with each
organization that will conduct the sessions was filed with the Attorney General
prior to December 6, 1977, and that each organization that will conduct the
sessions was issued a license to conduct bingo games by the Attorney General
prior to December 6, 1977.
   (F)   This section does not prohibit a bingo licensed charitable
organization or a game operator from giving any person an instant bingo ticket
as a prize.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of
illegally conducting a bingo game, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law. Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A)(1), (A)(3), (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), (C)(1) through (C)(11), or (D)
of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously
has been convicted of a violation of division (A)(1), (A)(3), (B)(1), (B)(2),
(B)(3), (C)(1) through (C)(11), or (D) of this section, a violation of division
(A)(1), (A)(3), (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), (C)(1) through (C)(11), or (D) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Whoever violates division (C)(12)
of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of division (C)(12) of this
section, a violation of division (C)(12) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.09)
§ 134.07 RECORDS TO BE KEPT.
   (A)   No charitable organization that conducts bingo or a game of chance
pursuant to R.C. § 2915.02(D), or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, shall fail to maintain the following records for at least three
years from the date on which the bingo or game of chance is conducted:
      (1)   An itemized list of the gross receipts of each bingo session, each
game of instant bingo by serial number, each electronic instant bingo game by
serial number, each raffle, each punch board game, and each game of chance, and
an itemized list of the gross profits of each game of instant bingo by serial
number and each electronic instant bingo game by serial number;
      (2)   An itemized list of all expenses, other than prizes, that are
incurred in conducting bingo, the name of each person to whom the expenses are
paid, and a receipt for all of the expenses;
      (3)   A list of all prizes awarded during each bingo session, each
raffle, each punch board game, and each game of chance conducted by the
charitable organization, the total prizes awarded from each game of instant
bingo by serial number and each electronic instant bingo game by serial number,
and the name, address, and social security number of all persons who are
winners of prizes of $600 or more in value;
      (4)   An itemized list of the recipients of the net profit of bingo or
game of chance, including the name and address of each recipient to whom the
money is distributed, and if the organization uses the net profit of bingo, or
the money or assets received from a game of chance, for any charitable or other
purpose set forth in R.C. § 2915.01(Z), R.C. § 2915.02(D), or R.C. § 2915.101,
a list of each purpose and an itemized list of each expenditure for each
purpose;
      (5)   The number of persons who participate in any bingo session or game
of chance that is conducted by the charitable organization;
      (6)   A list of receipts from the sale of food and beverages by the
charitable organization or one of its auxiliary units or societies, if the
receipts were excluded from “gross receipts” under R.C. § 2915.01(T);
      (7)   An itemized list of all expenses incurred at each bingo session,
each raffle, each punch board game, or each game of instant bingo or electronic
instant bingo conducted by the charitable organization in the sale of food and
beverages by the charitable organization or by an auxiliary unit or society of
the charitable organization, the name of each person to whom the expenses are
paid, and a receipt for all of the expenses.
   (B)   A charitable organization shall keep the records that it is required
to maintain pursuant to division (A) of this section at its principal place of
business in this state or at its headquarters in this state and shall notify
the Attorney General of the location at which those records are kept.
   (C)   The gross profit from each bingo session or game described in division
(1) or (2) of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01 shall be deposited
into a checking account devoted exclusively to the bingo session or game.
Payments for allowable expenses incurred in conducting the bingo session or
game and payments to recipients of some or all of the net profit of the bingo
session or game shall be made only by checks or electronic fund transfers drawn
on the bingo session or game account.
   (D)   Each charitable organization shall conduct and record an inventory of
all of its bingo supplies as of the first day of November of each year.
   (E)   The Attorney General may adopt rules in accordance with R.C. Chapter
119 that establish standards of accounting, record keeping, and reporting to
ensure that gross receipts from bingo or games of chance are properly accounted
for.
   (F)   A distributor shall maintain, for a period of three years after the
date of its sale or other provision, a record of each instance of its selling
or otherwise providing to another person bingo supplies for use in this state.
The record shall include all of the following for each instance:
      (1)   The name of the manufacturer from which the distributor purchased
the bingo supplies and the date of the purchase;
      (2)   The name and address of the charitable organization or other
distributor to which the bingo supplies were sold or otherwise provided;
      (3)   A description that clearly identifies the bingo supplies;
      (4)   Invoices that include the nonrepeating serial numbers of all paper
bingo cards and sheets and all instant bingo deals sold or otherwise provided
to each charitable organization.
   (G)   A manufacturer shall maintain, for a period of three years after the
date of its sale or other provision, a record of each instance of its selling
or otherwise providing bingo supplies for use in this state. The record shall
include all of the following for each instance:
      (1)   The name and address of the distributor to whom the bingo supplies
were sold or otherwise provided;
      (2)   A description that clearly identifies the bingo supplies, including
serial numbers;
      (3)   Invoices that include the nonrepeating serial numbers of all paper
bingo cards and sheets and all instant bingo deals sold or otherwise provided
to each distributor.
   (H)   (1)   The Attorney General or any law enforcement agency may do all of
the following:
         (a)   Investigate any charitable organization, distributor, or
manufacturer or any officer, agent, trustee, member, or employee of the
organization, distributor, or manufacturer;
         (b)   Examine the accounts and records of the charitable organization,
distributor, or manufacturer or of any officer, agent, trustee, member, or
employee of the organization, distributor, or manufacturer;
         (c)   Conduct inspections, audits, and observations of bingo or games
of chance;
         (d)   Conduct inspections of the premises where bingo or games of
chance are conducted or where bingo supplies are manufactured or distributed;
         (e)   Take any other necessary and reasonable action to determine if a
violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 has occurred
and to determine whether R.C. § 2915.11, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, has been complied with.
      (2)   If any law enforcement agency has reasonable grounds to believe
that a charitable organization, distributor, or manufacturer or an officer,
agent, trustee, member, or employee of the organization, distributor, or
manufacturer has violated any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915,
the law enforcement agency may proceed by action in the proper court to enforce
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915, provided that the law enforcement agency
shall give written notice to the Attorney General when commencing an action as
described in this division.
   (I)   No person shall destroy, alter, conceal, withhold, or deny access to
any accounts or records of a charitable organization, distributor, or
manufacturer that have been requested for examination, or obstruct, impede, or
interfere with any inspection, audit, or observation of bingo or a game of
chance, of premises where bingo or a game of chance is conducted, or of
premises where bingo supplies are manufactured or distributed, or refuse to
comply with any reasonable request of, or obstruct, impede, or interfere with
any other reasonable action undertaken by, the Attorney General or a law
enforcement agency pursuant to division (H) of this section.
   (J)   Whoever violates division (A) or (I) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2915.10)
§ 134.08 REQUIREMENTS FOR BINGO GAME OPERATORS.
   (A)   No person shall be a bingo game operator unless the person is 18 years
of age or older.
   (B)   No person who has been convicted of a felony or a gambling offense in
any jurisdiction shall be a bingo game operator.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. Whoever violates division (B) of this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2915.11)
§ 134.09 BINGO GAMES FOR AMUSEMENT ONLY.
   (A)   Sections
134.06 through
134.13 and 134.15 do not apply to bingo games that are conducted for the
purpose of amusement only. A bingo game is conducted for the purpose of
amusement only if it complies with all of the requirements specified in either
division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section.
      (1)   (a)   The participants do not pay any money or any other thing of
value, including an admission fee or any fee, for bingo cards or sheets,
objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in playing bingo, for the
privilege of participating in the bingo game, or to defray any costs of the
game, or pay tips or make donations during or immediately before or after the
bingo game.
         (b)   All prizes awarded during the course of the game are non-
monetary, and in the form of merchandise, goods, or entitlement to goods or
services only, and the total value of all prizes awarded during the game is
less than $100.
         (c)   No commission, wages, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity,
or other form of compensation, either directly or indirectly, and regardless of
the source, is paid to any bingo game operator for work or labor performed at
the site of the bingo game.
         (d)   The bingo game is not conducted either during or within ten
hours of any of the following:
            1.   A bingo session during which a charitable bingo game is
conducted pursuant to R.C. §§ 2915.07 through 2915.11 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
            2.   A scheme or game of chance, or bingo described in R.C. §
2915.01(O)(2).
         (e)   The number of players participating in the bingo game does not
exceed 50.
      (2)   (a)   The participants do not pay money or any other thing of value
as an admission fee, and no participant is charged more than $0.25 to purchase
a bingo card or sheet, objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in
playing bingo.
         (b)   The total amount of money paid by all of the participants for
bingo cards or sheets, objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in
playing bingo does not exceed $100.
         (c)   All of the money paid for bingo cards or sheets, objects to
cover spaces, or other devices used in playing bingo is used only to pay
winners monetary and nonmonetary prizes and to provide refreshments.
         (d)   The total value of all prizes awarded during the game does not
exceed $100.
         (e)   No commission, wages, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity,
or other form of compensation, either directly or indirectly, and regardless of
the source, is paid to any bingo game operator for work or labor performed at
the site of the bingo game.
         (f)   The bingo game is not conducted during or within ten hours of
either of the following:
            1.   A bingo session during which a charitable bingo game is
conducted pursuant to R.C. §§ 2915.07 through 2915.15 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance;
            2.   A scheme of chance or a game of chance, or bingo described in
R.C. § 2915.01(O)(2).
         (g)   All of the participants reside at the premises where the bingo
game is conducted.
         (h)   The bingo games are conducted on different days of the week and
not more than twice in a calendar week.
   (B)   The Attorney General or any local law enforcement agency may
investigate the conduct of a bingo game that purportedly is conducted for
purposes of amusement only if there is reason to believe that the purported
amusement bingo game does not comply with the requirements of either division
(A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section. A local law enforcement agency may proceed by
action in the proper court to enforce this section if the local law enforcement
agency gives written notice to the Attorney General when commencing the action.
(R.C. § 2915.12)
§ 134.10 PROHIBITIONS WHERE INSTANT BINGO GAME IS CONDUCTED.
   (A)   No charitable organization that conducts instant bingo shall do any of
the following:
      (1)   Fail to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 2915.09(A)(1), (A)
(2), and (A)(3), or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   Conduct instant bingo unless either of the following applies:
         (a)   That organization is, and has received from the Internal Revenue
Service a determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the
organization is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a), is
described in IRC 501(c)(3), is a charitable organization as defined in R.C. §
2915.01, is in good standing in the state pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08, and is in
compliance with R.C. Chapter 1716;
         (b)   That organization is, and has received from the Internal Revenue
Service a determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the
organization is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC 501(a), is
described in IRC 501(c)(7), (c)(8), (c)(10), or (c)(19) or is a veteran's
organization described in IRC 501(c)(4), and conducts instant bingo under R.C.
§ 2915.13.
      (3)   Conduct instant bingo on any day, at any time, or at any premises
not specified on the organization's license issued pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08;
      (4)   Permit any person whom the organization knows or should have known
has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any jurisdiction to be a
bingo game operator in the conduct of instant bingo;
      (5)   Purchase or lease supplies used to conduct instant bingo or punch
board games from any person except a distributor licensed under R.C. §
2915.081;
      (6)   Sell or provide any instant bingo ticket or card for a price
different from the price printed on it by the manufacturer on either the
instant bingo ticket or card or on the game flare;
      (7)   Sell an instant bingo ticket or card to a person under 18 years of
age;
      (8)   Fail to keep unsold instant bingo tickets or cards for less than
three years;
      (9)   Pay any compensation to a bingo game operator for conducting
instant bingo that is conducted by the organization or for preparing, selling,
or serving food or beverages at the site of the instant bingo game, permit any
auxiliary unit or society of the organization to pay compensation to any bingo
game operator who prepares, sells, or serves food or beverages at an instant
bingo game conducted by the organization, or permit any auxiliary unit or
society of the organization to prepare, sell, or serve food or beverages at an
instant bingo game conducted by the organization, if the auxiliary unit or
society pays any compensation to the bingo game operators who prepare, sell, or
serve the food or beverages;
      (10)   Pay fees to any person for any services performed in relation to
an instant bingo game, except as provided in R.C. § 2915.093(D);
      (11)   Pay fees to any person who provides refreshments to the
participants in an instant bingo game;
      (12)   (a)   Allow instant bingo tickets or cards to be sold to bingo
game operators at a premises at which the organization sells instant bingo
tickets or cards or to be sold to employees of a D permit holder who are
working at a premises at which instant bingo tickets or cards are sold;
         (b)   Division (A)(12)(a) of this section does not prohibit a licensed
charitable organization or a bingo game operator from giving any person an
instant bingo ticket as a prize in place of a cash prize won by a participant
in an instant bingo game. In no case shall an instant bingo ticket or card be
sold or provided for a price different from the price printed on it by the
manufacturer on either the instant bingo ticket or card or on the game flare.
      (13)   Fail to display its bingo license, and the serial numbers of the
deal of instant bingo tickets or cards to be sold, conspicuously at each
premises at which it sells instant bingo tickets or cards;
      (14)   Possess a deal of instant bingo tickets or cards that was not
purchased from a distributor licensed under R.C. § 2915.081 as reflected on an
invoice issued by the distributor that contains all of the information required
by R.C. § 2915.10(E);
      (15)   Fail, once it opens a deal of instant bingo tickets or cards, to
continue to sell the tickets or cards in that deal until the tickets or cards
with the top two highest tiers of prizes in that deal are sold;
      (16)   Possess bingo supplies that were not obtained in accordance with
R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (B)   A charitable organization may purchase, lease, or use instant bingo
ticket dispensers to sell instant bingo tickets or cards.
   (C)   Pursuant to R.C. § 2915.091(C), the Attorney General may adopt rules
in accordance with R.C. Chapter 119 that govern the conduct of instant bingo by
charitable organizations.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section or a rule adopted under
division (C) of this section is guilty of illegal instant bingo conduct. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, illegal instant bingo conduct is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of a violation of division (A) of this section or of such a rule adopted under
division (C) of this section, illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.091)
§ 134.11 RAFFLE DRAWINGS.
   (A)   (1)   Subject to division (A)(2) of this section, a person or entity
may conduct a raffle to raise money for the person or entity and does not need
a license to conduct bingo in order to conduct a raffle drawing that is not for
profit if the person or entity is any of the following:
         (a)   Exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and
described in IRC § 501(c)(3);
         (b)   A school district, community school established under R.C.
Chapter 3314, STEM school established under R.C. Chapter 3326, college-
preparatory boarding school established under R.C. Chapter 3328, or chartered
nonpublic school;
         (c)   Exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and
described in IRC § 501(c)(4), 501(c)(6), 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10), or
501(c)(19).
      (2)   If a person or entity that is described in division (A)(1)(c) of
this section conducts a raffle, the person or entity shall distribute at least
50% of the net profit from the raffle to a charitable purpose described in R.C.
§ 2915.01(V) or to a department or agency of the federal government, the state,
or any political subdivision.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (A) of this section, no person shall
conduct a raffle drawing that is for profit or a raffle drawing that is not for
profit.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of illegal
conduct of a raffle. Except as otherwise provided in this division, illegal
conduct of a raffle is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of division (B) of this section,
illegal conduct of a raffle is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2915.092)
§ 134.12 INSTANT BINGO OTHER THAN AT BINGO SESSIONS.
   (A)   As used in this section, RETAIL INCOME FROM ALL COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY
means the income that a person receives from the provision of goods, services,
or activities that are provided at the location where instant bingo other than
at a bingo session is conducted, including the sale of instant bingo tickets. A
religious organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC
501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3), at not more than one location at which
it conducts its charitable programs, may include donations from its members and
guests as retail income.
   (B)   (1)   If a charitable instant bingo organization conducts instant
bingo other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued under R.C.
§ 2915.08, the charitable instant bingo organization shall enter into a written
contract with the owner or lessor of the location at which the instant bingo is
conducted to allow the owner or lessor to assist in the conduct of instant
bingo other than at a bingo session, identify each location where the instant
bingo other than at a bingo session is being conducted, and identify the owner
or lessor of each location.
      (2)   A charitable instant bingo organization that conducts instant bingo
other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued under R.C. §
2915.08 is not required to enter into a written contract with the owner or
lessor of the location at which the instant bingo is conducted provided that
the owner or lessor is not assisting in the conduct of the instant bingo other
than at a bingo session and provided that the conduct of the instant bingo
other than at a bingo session at that location is not more than five days per
calendar year and not more than ten hours per day.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (F) of this section, no charitable
instant bingo organization shall conduct instant bingo other than at a bingo
session at a location where the primary source of retail income from all
commercial activity at that location is the sale of instant bingo tickets.
   (D)   (1)   The owner or lessor of a location that enters into a contract
pursuant to division (B) of this section shall pay the full gross profit to the
charitable instant bingo organization, in return for the deal of instant bingo
tickets. The owner or lessor may retain the money that the owner or lessor
receives for selling the instant bingo tickets, provided, however, that after
the deal has been sold, the owner or lessor shall pay to the charitable instant
bingo organization the value of any unredeemed instant bingo prizes remaining
in the deal of instant bingo tickets.
      (2)   The charitable instant bingo organization shall pay 6% of the total
gross receipts of any deal of instant bingo tickets for the purpose of
reimbursing the owner or lessor for expenses described in this division.
      (3)   As used in this division, EXPENSES means those items provided for
in R.C. § 2915.01(GG)(4), (GG)(5), (GG)(6), (GG)(7), (GG)(8), (GG)(12), and
(GG)(13) and that percentage of the owner’s or lessor’s rent for the location
where instant bingo is conducted. Expenses, in the aggregate, shall not exceed
6% of the total gross receipts of any deal of instant bingo tickets.
      (4)   As used in this division, FULL GROSS PROFIT means the amount by
which the total receipts of all instant bingo tickets, if the deal has been
sold in full, exceeds the amount that would be paid out if all prizes were
redeemed.
   (E)   A charitable instant bingo organization shall provide the Attorney
General with all of the following information:
      (1)   That the charitable instant bingo organization has terminated a
contract entered into pursuant to division (B) of this section with an owner or
lessor of a location;
      (2)   That the charitable instant bingo organization has entered into a
written contract pursuant to division (B) of this section with a new owner or
lessor of a location;
      (3)   That the charitable instant bingo organization is aware of conduct
by the owner or lessor of a location at which instant bingo is conducted that
is in violation of R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (F)   Division (C) of this section does not apply to a volunteer
firefighter's organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under
IRC 501(a) and described in IRC 501(c)(3), that conducts instant bingo other
than at a bingo session on the premises where the organization conducts
firefighter training, that has conducted instant bingo continuously for at
least five years prior to July 1, 2003, and that, during each of those five
years, had gross receipts of at least $1,500,000.
(R.C. § 2915.093)
   (G)   (1)   Subject to the requirements of R.C. §§ 2915.14 and 2915.15
concerning electronic instant bingo, a veteran’s organization, a fraternal
organization, or a sporting organization authorized to conduct a bingo session
pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2915 may conduct instant bingo, electronic instant
bingo, or both other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued
under R.C. § 2915.08 if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization limits the sale of instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to 12
hours during any day, provided that the sale does not begin earlier than 10:00
a.m. and ends not later than 2:00 a.m.
         (b)   The veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization limits the sale of instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to
its own premises and to its own members and invited guests.
         (c)   The veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization is raising money for an organization that is described in IRC §
509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an
organization that maintains its principal place of business in this state, that
is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC
§ 501(c)(3), and that is in good standing in this state and executes a written
contract with that organization as required in division (G)(2) of this section.
      (2)   If a veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization authorized to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant bingo
pursuant to division (G)(1) of this section is raising money for another
organization that is described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is
either a governmental unit or an organization that maintains its principal
place of business in this state, that is exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c), and that is in good standing
in this state, the veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization shall execute a written contract with the organization that is
described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a governmental
unit or an organization that maintains its principal place of business in this
state, that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and
described in IRC § 501(c), and that is in good standing in this state in order
to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant bingo. That contract shall
include a statement of the percentage of the net proceeds that the veteran’s,
fraternal, or sporting organization will be distributing to the organization
that is described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a
governmental unit or an organization that maintains its principal place of
business in this state, that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC §
501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3), and that is in good standing in this
state.
      (3)   (a)   If a veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or
sporting organization authorized to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant
bingo pursuant to division (G)(1) of this section has been issued a liquor
permit under R.C. Chapter 4303, that permit may be subject to suspension,
revocation, or cancellation if the veteran’s organization, fraternal
organization, or sporting organization violates a provision of this chapter or
R.C. Chapter 2915.
         (b)   No veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization that enters into a written contract pursuant to division (G)(2) of
this section shall violate any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915,
or permit, aid, or abet any other person in violating any provision of this
chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
(R.C. § 2915.13)
§ 134.13 RESTRICTIONS ON OWNER OR LESSOR OF LOCATION AT INSTANT BINGO.
   (A)   No owner or lessor of a location shall assist a charitable instant
bingo organization in the conduct of instant bingo other than at a bingo
session at that location unless the owner or lessor has entered into a written
contract, as described in R.C. § 2915.093, with the charitable instant bingo
organization to assist in the conduct of instant bingo other than at a bingo
session.
   (B)   The location of the lessor or owner shall be designated as a location
where the charitable instant bingo organization conducts instant bingo other
than at a bingo session.
   (C)   No owner or lessor of a location that enters into a written contract
as prescribed in division (A) of this section shall violate any provision of
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915, or permit, aid, or abet any other person in
violating any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (D)   No owner or lessor of a location that enters into a written contract
as prescribed in division (A) of this section shall violate the terms of the
contract.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty
of illegal instant bingo conduct. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, illegal instant bingo conduct is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of division (C) or
(D) of this section, illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If an owner or lessor of a location knowingly, intentionally, or
recklessly violates division (C) or (D) of this section, any license that the
owner or lessor holds for the retail sale of any goods on the owner's or
lessor's premises that is issued by the state or a political subdivision is
subject to suspension, revocation, or payment of a monetary penalty at the
request of the Attorney General.
(R.C. § 2915.094)
§ 134.14 SKILL-BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINES; PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall give to another person any item described in division
(1), (2), (3), or (4) of the definition for “merchandise prize” in §
134.01 in exchange for a noncash prize, toy, or novelty received as a reward
for playing or operating a skill-based amusement machine or for a free or
reduced-price game won on a skill-based amusement machine.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of skill-based
amusement machine prohibited conduct. A violation of division (A) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree for each redemption of a prize
that is involved in the violation. If the offender previously has been
convicted of a violation of division (A) of this section, a violation of that
division is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.06)
   (C)   Any regulation of skill-based amusement machines shall be governed by
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 and not by R.C. Chapter 1345.
(R.C. § 2915.061)
§ 134.15 ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO; PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No charitable organization shall conduct electronic instant bingo
unless all of the following are true:
      (1)   The organization is a veteran’s organization described in R.C. §
2915.01(J), or is a fraternal organization described in R.C. § 2915.01(L), and
the organization qualified as a veteran’s organization or fraternal
organization, as applicable, on or before June 30, 2021.
      (2)   The organization is a veteran’s organization described in IRC § 501
(c)(4) or is, and has received from the Internal Revenue Service a
determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the organization
is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a), and is described in
IRC § 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10), or 501(c)(19).
      (3)   The organization has not conducted a raffle in violation of R.C. §
2915.092(B) using an electronic raffle machine, as described in Ohio Veterans
and Fraternal Charitable Coalition v. DeWine, Case No. 13-CV-13610 (C.P.
Franklin Co. February 23, 2018), at any time on or after January 1, 2022.
   (B)   No charitable organization that conducts electronic instant bingo
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Possess an electronic instant bingo system that was not obtained in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 2915 or with any rule adopted under R.C. Chapter
2915;
      (2)   Conduct electronic instant bingo on any day, at any time, or on any
premises not specified on the organization’s type II or type III license issued
under R.C. § 2915.08;
      (3)   Hold more than one valid license to conduct electronic instant
bingo at any one time;
      (4)   Conduct electronic instant bingo on more than one premises or on
any premises other than the charitable organization’s principal place of
business;
      (5)   Operate more than ten electronic bingo systems at the premises on
which the charitable organization conducts electronic instant bingo under its
license;
      (6)   Fail to display both of the following conspicuously at the premises
on which the charitable organization conducts electronic instant bingo:
         (a)   The charitable organization’s bingo license;
         (b)   The serial number of each deal of electronic instant bingo
tickets being sold.
      (7)   Permit any person the charitable organization knows, or should have
known, to be under 18 years of age to play electronic instant bingo;
      (8)   Sell or provide to any person an electronic instant bingo ticket
for a price different from the price displayed on the game flare for that deal,
except that the charitable organization may give a participant who wins an
electronic instant bingo game an electronic instant bingo ticket as a prize in
place of a cash prize;
      (9)   Fail, once an electronic instant bingo deal is begun, to continue
to sell tickets in that deal until all prizes have been awarded;
      (10)   Permit any person whom the organization knows, or should have
known, has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any jurisdiction
to be a bingo game operator in the conduct of electronic instant bingo;
      (11)   Permit a bingo game operator to play electronic instant bingo;
      (12)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(12)(b) of this
section, pay compensation to a bingo game operator for conducting electronic
instant bingo.
         (b)   Division (B)(12)(a) of this section does not prohibit an
employee of a veteran’s organization or fraternal organization from redeeming
electronic instant bingo tickets or vouchers for the organization’s members or
invited guests, so long as no portion of the employee’s compensation is paid
from any bingo receipts.
      (13)   Pay consulting fees to any person in relation to electronic
instant bingo.
   (C)   No person shall sell, offer to sell, or otherwise provide or offer to
provide an electronic instant bingo system to any person for use in this
municipality unless the electronic instant bingo system has been approved under
R.C. § 2915.15.
   (D)   Whoever knowingly violates division (A), (B), or (C) of this section
or a rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.14(D) is guilty of illegal electronic
instant bingo conduct. Illegal electronic instant bingo conduct is a
misdemeanor of the first degree, except that if the offender previously has
been convicted of a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or state law, or of a rule adopted
under R.C. § 2915.14(D), illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.14)
CHAPTER 135: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
Section
   
135.01   Definitions
   
135.02   Negligent homicide
   
135.03   Vehicular homicide; vehicular manslaughter; vehicular assault
   
135.04   Assault; negligent assault
   
135.05   Injury to persons by hunters
   
135.06   Menacing; aggravated menacing; menacing by stalking; menacing of
public employees
   
135.07   Unlawful restraint
   
135.08   Reserved
   
135.09   Coercion
   
135.10   Bigamy
   
135.11   Illegal use of a tracking device or application
   
135.12   Misrepresentation relating to provision of child care
   
135.13   Nonsupport of dependents
   
135.14   Endangering children
   
135.15   Interference with custody; interference with support orders
   
135.16   Domestic violence
   
135.17   Hazing prohibited
   
135.18   Contributing to unruliness or delinquency of a child
   
135.19   Failure to provide for a person with a functional impairment
   
135.20   Patient abuse or neglect; patient endangerment; exceptions; false
statements; retaliation
   
135.21   Interference with right of person to engage in housing transactions
because of race, religion, or the like
   
135.22   Ethnic intimidation
   
135.23   Violating a protection order, consent agreement, anti-stalking
protection order or order issued by a court of another state
   
135.24   Adulteration of food
   
135.25   Illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products; transaction scans
   
135.26   Nonsmoking areas in places of public assembly
   
135.27   Spreading contagion
   
135.28   Abuse of a corpse
   
135.29   Unlawful collection of bodily substances
Statutory reference:
   Child care, misrepresentations by providers and failure to disclose death or
serious injuries, misdemeanors, see R.C. §§ 2919.223 et seq.
   Extortionate extension of credit, see R.C. §§ 2905.21 through 2905.24
   Failure to send child to school, see R.C. § 3321.38
   Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.15
   Reckless homicide, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.041
   Rights of victims of crimes, see R.C. Chapter 2930
§ 135.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of §§
135.01 through
135.06, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ANOTHER'S UNBORN or OTHER PERSON'S UNBORN. A member of the species Homo
sapiens who is or was carried in the womb of another during a period that
begins with fertilization and that continues unless and until live birth
occurs.
      UNLAWFUL TERMINATION OF ANOTHER'S PREGNANCY. Causing the death of an
unborn member of the species Homo sapiens who is or was carried in the womb of
another, as a result of injuries inflicted during the period that begins with
fertilization and that continues unless and until live birth occurs.
   (B)   Notwithstanding division (A) of this section, in no case shall the
definitions of the terms ANOTHER'S UNBORN, OTHER PERSON'S UNBORN and UNLAWFUL
TERMINATION OF ANOTHER'S PREGNANCY that are set forth in division (A) of this
section be applied or construed in any of the following manners:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(1) of this section, in
a manner so that the offense prohibits or is construed as prohibiting any
pregnant woman or her physician from performing an abortion with the consent of
the pregnant woman, with the consent of the pregnant woman implied by law in a
medical emergency, or with the approval of one otherwise authorized by law to
consent to medical treatment on behalf of the pregnant woman. An abortion that
violates the conditions described in the immediately preceding sentence may be
punished as any violation of R.C. § 2903.01, 2903.02, 2903.03, 2903.04,
2903.05, 2903.06, 2903.08, 2903.11, 2903.12, 2903.13, 2903.14, 2903.21 or
2903.22, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, as applicable. An
abortion that does not violate the conditions described in the second
immediately preceding sentence but that does violate R.C. § 2919.12, 2919.13
(B), 2919.15, 2919.151, 2919.17 or 2919.18, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, may be punished as a violation of such section, as
applicable.
      (2)   In a manner so that the offense is applied or is construed as
applying to a woman based on an act or omission of the woman that occurs while
she is or was pregnant and that results in any of the following:
         (a)   Her delivery of a stillborn baby.
         (b)   Her causing, in any other manner, the death in utero of a
viable, unborn human that she is carrying.
         (c)   Her causing the death of her child who is born alive but who
dies from one or more injuries that are sustained while the child is a viable,
unborn human.
         (d)   Her causing her child who is born alive to sustain one or more
injuries while the child is a viable, unborn human.
         (e)   Her causing, threatening to cause, or attempting to cause, in
any other manner, an injury, illness, or other psychological illness or
condition, regardless of its duration or gravity, to a viable, unborn human
that she is carrying.
(R.C. § 2903.09)
§ 135.02 NEGLIGENT HOMICIDE.
   (A)   No person shall negligently cause the death of another or the unlawful
termination of another's pregnancy by means of a deadly weapon or dangerous
ordnance, as defined in R.C. § 2923.11.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of negligent homicide, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2903.05)
Statutory reference:
   Reckless homicide, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.041
§ 135.03 VEHICULAR HOMICIDE; VEHICULAR MANSLAUGHTER; VEHICULAR ASSAULT.
   (A)   No person, while operating or participating in the operation of a
motor vehicle, motorcycle, utility vehicle, mini-truck, snowmobile, locomotive,
watercraft, or aircraft, shall cause the death of another or the unlawful
termination of another’s pregnancy in any of the following ways:
      (1)   As the proximate result of committing an OVI offense.
      (2)   In one of the following ways:
         (a)   Recklessly;
         (b)   As the proximate result of committing, while operating or
participating in the operation of a motor vehicle, utility vehicle, mini-truck,
or motorcycle in a construction zone, a reckless operation offense, provided
that this division applies only if the person whose death is caused or whose
pregnancy is unlawfully terminated is in the construction zone at the time of
the offender’s commission of the reckless operation offense in the construction
zone and does not apply as described in division (D) of this section.
      (3)   In one of the following ways:
         (a)   Negligently;
         (b)   As the proximate result of committing, while operating or
participating in the operation of a motor vehicle, utility vehicle, mini-truck,
or motorcycle in a construction zone, a speeding offense, provided that this
division applies only if the person whose death is caused or whose pregnancy is
unlawfully terminated is in the construction zone at the time of the offender’s
commission of the speeding offense in the construction zone and does not apply
as described in division (D) of this section.
      (4)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of any provision
of any section contained in R.C. Title 45 that is a minor misdemeanor or of a
municipal ordinance that, regardless of the penalty set by ordinance for the
violation, is substantially equivalent to any provision of any section
contained in R.C. Title 45 that is a minor misdemeanor.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
guilty of aggravated vehicular homicide, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(3) of this section is guilty of
vehicular homicide. Except as otherwise provided in this division, vehicular
homicide is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Vehicular homicide committed in
violation of division (A)(3) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if, at the time of the offense, the offender was driving
under a suspension or cancellation imposed under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other
provision of the Ohio Revised Code or was operating a motor vehicle or
motorcycle, did not have a valid driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege, and was not eligible for renewal of the offender’s driver’s license
or commercial driver’s license without examination under R.C. § 4507.10 or if
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation
of this section or any traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault
offense.
         (b)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed pursuant to this
division, the court shall impose upon the offender a class four suspension of
the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of
vehicular manslaughter. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
vehicular manslaughter is a misdemeanor of the second degree. Vehicular
manslaughter is a misdemeanor of the first degree if, at the time of the
offense, the offender was driving under a suspension or cancellation imposed
under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other provision of the Revised Code or was
operating a motor vehicle or motorcycle, did not have a valid driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary
license, or nonresident operating privilege, and was not eligible for renewal
of the offender’s driver’s license or commercial driver’s license without
examination under R.C. § 4507.10 or if the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section or any traffic-
related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense.
         (b)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed pursuant to this
division, the court shall impose upon the offender a class six suspension of
the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6) or, if the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section, any
traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense, or a traffic-
related murder, felonious assault, or attempted murder offense, a class four
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
   (C)   The court shall impose a mandatory jail term of at least 15 days on an
offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor violation of
division (A)(3)(b) of this section and may impose upon the offender a longer
jail term as authorized pursuant to R.C. § 2929.24.
   (D)   Divisions (A)(2)(b) and (A)(3)(b) of this section do not apply in a
particular construction zone unless signs of the type described in R.C. §
2903.081 are erected in that construction zone in accordance with the
guidelines and design specifications established by the Director of
Transportation under R.C. § 5501.27. The failure to erect signs of the type
described in R.C. § 2903.081 in a particular construction zone in accordance
with those guidelines and design specifications does not limit or affect the
application of division (A)(1), (A)(2)(a), (A)(3)(a), or (A)(4) of this section
in that construction zone or the prosecution of any person who violates any of
those divisions in that construction zone.
   (E)   (1)   As used in this section:
         CONSTRUCTION ZONE has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5501.27.
         MANDATORY PRISON TERM and MANDATORY JAIL TERM have the same meanings
as in R.C. § 2929.01.
         MINI-TRUCK. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
         MOTOR VEHICLE has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
         OVI OFFENSE. Means a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), a violation R.C.
§ 1547.11(A), a violation of R.C. § 4561.15(A)(3), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
         RECKLESS OPERATION OFFENSE means a violation of R.C. § 4511.20 or a
municipal ordinance substantially equivalent to R.C. § 4511.20.
         SPEEDING OFFENSE means a violation of R.C. § 4511.21 or a municipal
ordinance pertaining to speed.
         TRAFFIC-RELATED HOMICIDE, MANSLAUGHTER, OR ASSAULT OFFENSE means a
violation of R.C. § 2903.04 in circumstances in which division (D) of that
section applies, a violation of R.C. § 2903.06 or 2903.08, or a violation of
R.C. § 2903.06, 2903.07, or 2903.08 as they existed prior to March 23, 2000.
         TRAFFIC-RELATED MURDER, FELONIOUS ASSAULT, OR ATTEMPTED MURDER OFFENSE
means a violation of R.C. § 2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02 in circumstances in which
the offender used a motor vehicle as the means to commit the violation, a
violation of R.C. § 2903.11(A)(2) in circumstances in which the deadly weapon
used in the commission of the violation is a motor vehicle, or an attempt to
commit aggravated murder or murder in violation of R.C. § 2923.02 in
circumstances  in which the offender used a motor vehicle as the means to
attempt to commit the aggravated murder or murder.
         UTILITY VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, when a penalty or suspension is
enhanced because of a prior or current violation of a specified law or a prior
or current specified offense, the reference to the violation of the specified
law or the specified offense includes any violation of any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, former law of this state, or current or former
law of this or another state or the United States.
(R.C. § 2903.06)
   (F)   Vehicular assault.
      (1)   No person, while operating or participating in the operation of a
motor vehicle, motorcycle, utility vehicle, or mini-truck, shall cause serious
physical harm to another person or another’s unborn as the proximate result of
committing, while operating or participating in the operation of a motor
vehicle, utility vehicle, mini-truck, or motorcycle in a construction zone, a
speeding offense, provided that this division applies only if the person to
whom the serious physical harm is caused or to whose unborn the serious
physical harm is caused is in the construction zone at the time of the
offender’s commission of the speeding offense in the construction zone and does
not apply as described in division (F)(4) of this section.
      (2)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, vehicular
assault committed in violation of division (F)(1) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. Vehicular assault committed in violation of
division (F)(1) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law if, at the time of the offense, the offender was driving under a
suspension imposed under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other provision of the Ohio
Revised Code or if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (F)(1) of this section, R.C. § 2903.08, or
any traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense.
         (b)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed, the court shall
impose upon the offender a class four suspension of the offender’s driver’s
license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit,
probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
      (3)   The court shall impose a mandatory jail term of at least seven days
on an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor violation
of division (F)(1) of this section and may impose upon the offender a longer
jail term as authorized pursuant to R.C. § 2929.24.
      (4)   Division (F)(1) of this section does not apply in a particular
construction zone unless signs of the type described in R.C. § 2903.081 are
erected in that construction zone in accordance with the guidelines and design
specifications established by the Director of Transportation under R.C. §
5501.27.
      (5)   As used in this division (F):
         CONSTRUCTION ZONE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5501.27.
         MANDATORY JAIL TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
         SPEEDING OFFENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.06.
         TRAFFIC-RELATED HOMICIDE, MANSLAUGHTER, OR ASSAULT OFFENSE. Has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.06.
      (6)   For the purposes of this division (F), when a penalty or suspension
is enhanced because of a prior or current violation of a specified law or a
prior or current specified offense, the reference to the violation of the
specified law or the specified offense includes any violation of any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, former law of this state, or
current or former law of another state or the United States.
(R.C. 2903.08(A)(3), (C)(3), (D)(3), (E) - (G))
Statutory reference:
   Vehicular assault and aggravated vehicular assault, felony offenses, see
R.C. § 2903.08
   Trial court to suspend driver's license, see R.C. § 4510.05
§ 135.04 ASSAULT; NEGLIGENT ASSAULT.
   (A)   Assault.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly cause or attempt to cause physical harm
to another or to another's unborn.
      (2)   No person shall recklessly cause serious physical harm to another
or to another's unborn.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
guilty of assault. Except as provided in R.C. § 2903.13(C), assault is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (4)   If an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to assault when
it is a misdemeanor also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a specification as
described in R.C. § 2941.1423 (victim of the offense was a woman whom the
defendant knew was pregnant at the time of the offense) that was included in
the indictment, count in the indictment, or information charging the offense,
the court shall sentence the offender to a mandatory jail term as provided in
R.C. § 2929.24(F).
      (5)   A prosecution for a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this
section does not preclude a prosecution of a violation of any other section of
the Ohio Revised Code. One or more acts, a series of acts, or a course of
behavior that can be prosecuted under division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section
or any other section of the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under division
(A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section, the other section of the Ohio Revised Code,
or both sections. However, if an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section and also is convicted of
or pleads guilty to a violation of R.C. § 2903.22, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, based on the same conduct involving the same
victim that was the basis of the violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this
section, the offenses are allied offenses of similar import under R.C. §
2941.25.
(R.C. § 2903.13)
   (B)   Negligent assault.
      (1)   No person shall negligently, by means of a deadly weapon or
dangerous ordnance as defined in R.C. § 2923.11, cause physical harm to another
or to another's unborn.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of
negligent assault, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 2903.14)
Cross-reference:
   Jurisdictional limitation on Mayor regarding violations of division (A) of
this section, see §
33.01(E)
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated and felonious assault, see R.C. §§ 2903.11 and 2903.12
   Aggravated vehicular assault, felony, see R.C. § 2903.08
   Felony assault offenses: see R.C. § 2903.13(C)
   Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.15
   Persons who may seek relief under anti-stalking protection order; ex parte
orders, see R.C. § 2903.214
   Protection order as pretrial condition of release, see R.C. § 2903.213
   Strangulation, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.18
§ 135.05 INJURY TO PERSONS BY HUNTERS.
   (A)   No person in the act of hunting, pursuing, taking, or killing a wild
animal shall act in a negligent, careless, or reckless manner so as to injure
persons.
(R.C. § 1533.171(A))
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 1533.99(C))
Statutory Reference:
   Violation, license revocation, see R.C. § 1533.171(B) through (E)
§ 135.06 MENACING; AGGRAVATED MENACING; MENACING BY STALKING; MENACING OF
PUBLIC EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Menacing.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly cause another to believe that the
offender will cause physical harm to the person or property of the other
person, the other person's unborn, or a member of the other person's immediate
family. In addition to any other basis for the other person's belief that the
offender will cause physical harm to the person or property of the other
person, the other person's unborn, or a member of the other person's immediate
family, the other person's belief may be based on words or conduct of the
offender that are directed at or identify a corporation, association, or other
organization that employs the other person or to which the other person
belongs.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of
menacing. Except as otherwise provided in this division (A)(2), menacing is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If the victim of the offense is an officer or
employee of a public children services agency or a private child placing agency
and the offense relates to the officer's or employee's performance or
anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties, menacing is a
misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to an offense of violence, the victim of that
prior offense was an officer or employee of a public children services agency
or private child placing agency, and that prior offense related to the
officer's or employee's performance or anticipated performance of official
responsibilities or duties, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (3)   As used in this division (A), ORGANIZATION includes an entity that
is a governmental employer.
   (B)   Aggravated menacing.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly cause another to believe that the
offender will cause serious physical harm to the person or property of the
other person, such other person's unborn, or a member of such other person's
immediate family. In addition to any other basis for the other person's belief
that the offender will cause serious physical harm to the person or property of
the other person, the other person's unborn, or a member of the other person's
immediate family, the other person's belief may be based on words or conduct of
the offender that are directed at or identify a corporation, association, or
other organization that employs the other person or to which the other person
belongs.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of
aggravated menacing. Except as otherwise provided in this division (B)(2),
aggravated menacing is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the victim of the
offense is an officer or employee of a public children services agency or a
private child placing agency and the offense relates to the officer's or
employee's performance or anticipated performance of official responsibilities
or duties, aggravated menacing is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law or, if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to an offense of violence, the victim of that prior offense was an
officer or employee of a public children services agency or private child
placing agency, and that prior offense related to the officer's or employee's
performance or anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties,
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   As used in this division (B), ORGANIZATION includes an entity that
is a governmental employer.
   (C)   Menacing by stalking.
      (1)   (a)   No person by engaging in a pattern of conduct shall knowingly
cause another person to believe that the offender will cause physical harm to
the other person or a family or household member of the other person or cause
mental distress to the other person or a family or household member of the
other person. In addition to any other basis for the other person's belief that
the offender will cause physical harm to the other person or the other person's
family or household member or mental distress to the other person or the other
person's family or household member, the other person's belief or mental
distress may be based on words or conduct of the offender that are directed at
or identify a corporation, association, or other organization that employs the
other person or to which the other person belongs.
         (b)   No person, through the use of any form of written communication
or any electronic method of remotely transferring information, including but
not limited to any computer, computer network, computer program, computer
system, or telecommunication device, shall post a message or use any
intentionally written or verbal graphic gesture with purpose to urge do either
of the following:
            1.   Violate division (C)(1)(a) of this section;
            2.   Urge or incite another to commit a violation of division (C)
(1)(a) of this section.
         (c)   No person, with a sexual motivation, shall violate division (C)
(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this section.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C)(1) of this section is guilty of
menacing by stalking.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2)(b) of this
section, menacing by stalking is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   Menacing by stalking is a felony, to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law, if any of the following applies:
            1.   The offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 2903.21 l or a violation of R.C. § 2911.211, or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to either of these offenses.
            2.   In committing the offense under division (C)(1)(a), (C)(1)(b)
or (C)(1)(c) of this section, the offender made a threat of physical harm to or
against the victim, or as a result of an offense committed under division (C)
(1)(b) or (C)(1)(c) of this section, a third person induced by the offender's
posted message made a threat of physical harm to or against the victim.
            3.   In committing the offense under division (C)(1)(a), (C)(1)(b)
or (C)(1)(c) of this section, the offender trespassed on the land or premises
where the victim lives, is employed, or attends school, or as a result of an
offense committed under division (C)(1)(b) or (C)(1)(c) of this section, a
third person induced by the offender's posted message trespassed on the land or
premises where the victim lives, is employed, or attends school.
            4.   The victim of the offense is a minor.
            5.   The offender has a history of violence towards the victim or
any other person or a history of other violent acts towards the victim or any
other person.
            6.   While committing the offense under division (C)(1)(a) of this
section or a violation of division (C)(1)(c) of this section based on conduct
in violation of division (C)(1)(a) of this section, the offender had a deadly
weapon on or about the offender's person or under the offender's control.
Division (C)(2)(b)6. of this section does not apply in determining the penalty
for a violation of division (C)(1)(b) of this section or a violation of
division (C)(1)(c) of this section based on conduct in violation of division
(C)(1)(b) of this section.
            7.   At the time of the commission of the offense, the offender was
the subject of a protection order issued under R.C.§ 2903.213 or R.C.§
2903.214, regardless of whether or not the person to be protected under the
order is the victim of the offense or another person.
            8.   In committing the offense under division (C)(1)(a), (C)(1)(b)
or (C)(1)(c) of this section, the offender caused serious physical harm to the
premises at which the victim resides, to the real property on which that
premises is located, or to any personal property located on that premises, or
as a result of an offense committed under division (C)(1)(b) of this section or
an offense committed under division (C)(1)(c) of this section based on a
violation of division (C)(1)(b) of this section, a third person induced by the
offender's posted message caused serious physical harm to that premises, that
real property, or any personal property on that premises.
            9.   Prior to committing the offense, the offender had been
determined to represent a substantial risk of physical harm to others as
manifested by evidence of then-recent homicidal or other violent behavior,
evidence of then-recent threats that placed another in reasonable fear of
violent behavior and serious harm, or other evidence of then-present
dangerousness.
            10.   The victim of the offense is an officer or employee of a
public children services agency or a private child placing agency and the
offense relates to the officer's or employee's performance or anticipated
performance of official responsibilities or duties.
            11.   The offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded gui
lty to an offense of violence, the victim of that prior offense was an officer
or employee of a public children services agency or private child placing
agency, and that prior offense related to the officer's or employee's
performance or anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties.
      (3)   R.C. § 2919.271 applies in relation to a defendant charged with a
violation of this section.
      (4)   As used in division (C) of this section:
         COMPUTER, COMPUTER NETWORK, COMPUTER PROGRAM, COMPUTER SYSTEM, and
TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2909.04
         EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON. Is the singular of "emergency
medical
services personnel" as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
         FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Any of the following:
            1.   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
person against whom the act prohibited in division (C)(1)(a) of this section is
committed:
               a.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse, or a former spouse
of the person;
               b.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the person, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the person;
               c.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse,
or former spouse of the person, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
person.
            2.   The natural parent of any child of whom the person against
whom the act prohibited in division (C)(1)(a) of this section is committed is
the other natural parent or is the putative other natural parent.
         MENTAL DISTRESS. Any of the following:
            1.   Any mental illness or condition that involves some temporary
substantial incapacity;
            2.   Any mental illness or condition that would normally require
psychiatric treatment,
psychological treatment, or other mental health services, whether or not any
person requested or received psychiatric treatment, psychological treatment, or
other mental health services.
         ORGANIZATION. Includes an entity that is a governmental employer.
         PATTERN OF CONDUCT. Two or more actions or incidents closely related
in time, whether or not there has been a prior conviction based on any of those
actions or incidents, or two or more actions or incidents closely related in
time, whether or not there has been a prior conviction based on any of those
actions or incidents, directed at one or more persons employed by or belonging
to the same corporation, association, or other organization. Actions or
incidents that prevent, obstruct, or delay the performance by a public
official, firefighter, rescuer, emergency medical services person, or emergency
facility person of any authorized act within the public official's,
firefighter's, rescuer's, emergency medical services person's, or emergency
facility person's official capacity, or the posting of messages, use of
intentionally written or verbal graphic gestures, or receipt of information or
data through the use of any form of written communication or an electronic
method of remotely transferring information, including but not limited to a
computer, computer network, computer program, computer system, or
telecommunications device, may constitute a PATTERN OF CONDUCT.
         PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE. Means a person who is living or has lived
with the person against whom the act prohibited in division (C)(1)(a) of this
section is committed in a common law marital relationship, who otherwise is
cohabiting with that person, or who otherwise has cohabited with the person
within five years prior to the date of the alleged commission of the act in
question.
         POST A MESSAGE. Transferring, sending, posting, publishing,
disseminating, or otherwise communicating, or attempting to transfer, send,
post, publish, disseminate, or otherwise communicate, any message or
information, whether truthful or untruthful, about an individual, and whether
done under one's own name, under the name of another, or while impersonating
another.
         PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.01.
         SEXUAL MOTIVATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2971.01.
         THIRD PERSON. In relation to conduct as described in division (C)(1)
(b) of this section,  an individual who is neither the offender nor the victim
of the conduct.
      (5)   The prosecution does not need to prove in a prosecution under
division (C) of this section that a person requested or received psychiatric
treatment, psychological treatment, or other mental health services in order to
show that the person was caused mental distress as described in division 2. of
the definition for "mental distress" in this section.
      (6)   (a)   Division (C) of this section does not apply to a person
solely because the person provided access or connection to or from an
electronic method of remotely transferring information not under that person's
control, including having provided capabilities that are incidental to
providing access or connection to or from the electronic method of remotely
transferring the information, and that do not include the creation of the
content of the material that is the subject of the access or connection. In
addition, any person providing access or connection to or from an electronic
method of remotely transferring information not under that person's control
shall not be liable for any action voluntarily taken in good faith to block the
receipt or transmission through its service of any information that it believes
is or will be sent in violation of division (C) of this section.
         (b)   Division (C)(6)(a) of this section does not create an
affirmative duty for any person providing access or connection to or from an
electronic method of remotely transferring information not under that person's
control to block the receipt or transmission through its service of any
information that it believes is or will be sent in violation of division (C) of
this section except as otherwise provided by law.
         (c)   Division (C)(6)(a) of this section does not apply to a person
who conspires with a person actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of division (C) of this section or who
knowingly advertises the availability of material of that nature.
   (D)   Menacing of a public employee.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly cause a public employee to believe that
the offender will cause physical harm to that person during the public
employee's performance or attempted performance of official responsibilities or
duties.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly cause a utility worker to believe that
the offender will cause physical harm to that person during the utility
workers' performance or attempted performance of job-related responsibilities
or duties.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, whoever violates this
division (D) of this section is guilty of menacing of a public employee, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (4)   As used in division (D) of this section:
         PUBLIC EMPLOYEE. Any person holding a position by appointment or
employment in the service of a public employer.
         UTILITY. An entity that provides gas, electric, steam, water, sewage,
communication services, or cable and broadband services, whether publicly or
privately owned.
         UTILITY WORKER. An employee of a person or entity whose primary
responsibility is the operation of maintenance of a utility.
(Am. Ord. 2022-60, passed 10-5-22) Penalty, see §
130.99
Cross-reference:
   Jurisdictional limitation on Mayor regarding violations of division (C) of
this section, see §
33.01(E)
   Violation of protection orders, see §
135.23
Statutory reference:
   Authority of corporations to seek protection orders in certain
circumstances, see R.C. § 2903.215
   Conditions of bail for violators, see R.C. § 2903.212
   Persons who may seek relief under anti-stalking protection order; ex parte
orders, see R.C. § 2903.214
   Protection order as pretrial condition of release, see R.C. § 2903.213
§ 135.07 UNLAWFUL RESTRAINT.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly restrain
another of the other person’s liberty.
   (B)   No person, without privilege to do so and with a sexual motivation,
shall knowingly restrain another of the other person’s liberty.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful restraint, a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   As used in this section, SEXUAL MOTIVATION has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2971.01
(R.C. § 2905.03)
§ 135.08 RESERVED.
Editor's note: This section was formerly based on R.C. § 2905.05, Criminal
Child Enticement. The Ohio Supreme Court held that R.C. § 2905.05(A) was
unconstitutionally overbroad in violation of the First Amendment. See State v.
Romage, 138 Ohio St. 3d. 390 (2014).
§ 135.09 COERCION.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to coerce another into taking or refraining
from action concerning which he or she has a legal freedom of choice, shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Threaten to commit any offense.
      (2)   Utter or threaten any slander against any person.
      (3)   Expose or threaten to expose any matter tending to subject any
person to hatred, contempt, or ridicule, or to damage his or her personal or
business repute, or to impair his or her credit.
      (4)   Institute or threaten criminal proceedings against any person.
      (5)   Take or withhold, or threaten to take or withhold official action,
or cause or threaten to cause official action to be taken or withheld.
   (B)   Divisions (A)(4) and (A)(5) of this section shall not be construed to
prohibit a prosecutor or court from doing any of the following in good faith
and in the interests of justice:
      (1)   Offering or agreeing to grant, or granting immunity from
prosecution pursuant to R.C. § 2945.44.
      (2)   In return for a plea of guilty to one or more offenses charged or
to one or more other or lesser offenses, or in return for the testimony of the
accused in a case to which he or she is not a party, offering or agreeing to
dismiss, or dismissing one or more charges pending against an accused, or
offering or agreeing to impose, or imposing a certain sentence or modification
of sentence.
      (3)   Imposing probation on certain conditions, including without
limitation requiring the offender to make restitution or redress to the victim
of his or her offense.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(3), (A)
(4), or (A)(5) of this section that the actor's conduct was a reasonable
response to the circumstances which occasioned it, and that his or her purpose
was limited to:
      (1)   Compelling another to refrain from misconduct or to desist from
further misconduct.
      (2)   Preventing or redressing a wrong or injustice.
      (3)   Preventing another from taking action for which the actor
reasonably believed the other person to be disqualified.
      (4)   Compelling another to take action which the actor reasonably
believed the other person to be under a duty to take.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of coercion, a misdemeanor of
the second degree.
   (E)   As used in this section, THREAT includes a direct threat and a threat
by innuendo.
(R.C. § 2905.12)
§ 135.10 BIGAMY.
   (A)   No married person shall marry another or continue to cohabit with such
other person in this municipality.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that the
actor's spouse was continuously absent for five years immediately preceding the
purported subsequent marriage, and was not known by the actor to be alive
within that time.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of bigamy, a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
(R.C. § 2919.01)
§ 135.11 ILLEGAL USE OF A TRACKING DEVICE OR APPLICATION.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      BUSINESS ENTITY. Means any form of corporation, partnership, association,
cooperative, joint venture, business trust, or sole proprietorship that
conducts business in this state.
      BUSINESS OF PRIVATE INVESTIGATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
4749.01.
      DISABLED ADULT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      ELDERLY PERSON. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      ELECTRONIC MONITORING. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      ELECTRONIC MONITORING DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. Means any organization or unit comprised of law
enforcement officers, and also includes any federal or military law enforcement
agency.
      OHIO PROTECTION ORDER. Means a protection order filed or issued or a
consent agreement approved pursuant to R.C. § 2919.26 or 3113.31, a protection
order filed or issued pursuant to R.C. § 2151.34, 2903.213, or 2903.214, or a
no contact order issued as any of the following:
         (a)   As part of a person’s sentence under a community control
sanction imposed under R.C. § 2929.16, 2929.17, 2929.26, or 2929.27;
         (b)   As a term or condition of a person’s release under R.C. §
2929.20;
         (c)   As a post-release control sanction imposed as a condition of a
person’s post-release control under R.C. § 2967.28;
         (d)   As a term of supervision for a person transferred to
transitional control under R.C. § 2967.26;
         (e)   As a term or condition of the intervention plan of a person
granted intervention in lieu of conviction under R.C. § 2951.041.
      PERSON. Means an individual, but does not include a business entity.
      PRIVATE INVESTIGATOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4749.01.
      PROTECTION ORDER ISSUED BY A COURT OF ANOTHER STATE. Has the same meaning
as in R.C. § 2919.27.
      TRACKING APPLICATION. Means any software program that permits a person to
remotely determine or track the position or movement of another person or
another person’s property.
      TRACKING DEVICE. Means an electronic or mechanical device that permits a
person to remotely determine or track the position or movement of another
person or another person’s property, including an electronic monitoring device.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D) of this section, no
person shall knowingly do either of the following:
      (1)   Install a tracking device or tracking application on another
person’s property without the other person’s consent or cause a tracking device
or tracking application to track the position or movement of another person or
another person’s property without the other person’s consent;
      (2)   If the person installed a tracking device or tracking application
on another’s property with the other person’s consent and the other person
subsequently revokes that consent, fail to remove or ensure the removal of the
device or application after the other person revokes the consent.
   (C)   (1)   For purposes of this section, if a person has given consent for
another to install a tracking device or tracking application on the consenting
person’s property, it is presumed that the consenting person has revoked that
consent if any of the following applies:
         (a)   The consenting person and the person to whom consent was given
are lawfully married and one of them files a complaint for divorce or a
petition for dissolution of marriage from the other. Not later than 72 hours
after being served with a complaint for divorce or a petition for dissolution
of marriage, the person to whom consent was given shall lawfully uninstall or
discontinue use of the tracking device or tracking application. If the person
to whom consent was given cannot lawfully uninstall or discontinue use of the
tracking device or tracking application, the person to whom consent was given
shall notify the court in which the complaint for divorce or the petition for
dissolution of marriage was filed in writing.
         (b)   The consenting person or the person to whom consent was given
files an Ohio protection order against the other person or an Ohio protection
order is issued against the other person, and the person to be protected under
the order is the consenting person. Not later than 72 hours after being served
with the Ohio protection order, the person to whom consent was given shall
lawfully uninstall or discontinue use of the tracking device or tracking
application. If the person to whom consent was given cannot lawfully uninstall
or discontinue use of the tracking device or tracking application, the person
to whom consent was given shall notify the court that issued the Ohio
protection order in writing that the person to whom consent was given has
installed or is using a tracking device or tracking application on the
previously consenting person’s person or the person’s property and cannot
uninstall or discontinue its use without violating the Ohio protection order.
      (2)   Revocation of consent under this division is effective upon the
service of the petition or motion or an Ohio protection order.
   (D)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   A law enforcement officer, or any law enforcement agency, that
installs a tracking device or tracking application on another person’s property
or causes a tracking device or tracking application to track the position or
movement of another person or another person’s property as part of a criminal
investigation, or a probation officer, parole officer, or employee of the
department of rehabilitation and correction, a halfway house, or a community-
based correctional facility when engaged in the lawful performance of the
officer’s or employee’s official duties;
      (2)   A parent or legal guardian of a minor child who installs or uses a
tracking device or tracking application to track the minor child if any of the
following applies:
         (a)   The parents or legal guardians of the child are lawfully married
to each other and are not separated or otherwise living apart, and either of
those parents or legal guardians consents to the installation of the tracking
device or tracking application;
         (b)   The parent or legal guardian of the child is the sole surviving
parent or legal guardian of the child;
         (c)   The parent or legal guardian of the child has sole custody of
the child;
         (d)   The parents or legal guardians of the child are divorced,
separated, or otherwise living apart and neither parent has sole custody of the
child, and both consent to the installation of the tracking device or tracking
application;
         (e)   The parents or legal guardians of the child are divorced,
separated, or otherwise living apart, neither parent has sole custody of the
child, and either only one parent consents to the installation of the tracking
device or tracking application or one parent revokes consent, if the consenting
parent only uses the tracking device or tracking application during that
parent’s parenting or custodial time and disables or removes the tracking
device or application during the nonconsenting parent’s parenting or custodial
time.
      (3)   A caregiver of an elderly person or disabled adult, if the elderly
person’s or disabled adult’s treating physician certifies that the installation
of a tracking device or tracking application onto the elderly person’s or
disabled adult’s property is necessary to ensure the safety of the elderly
person or disabled adult;
      (4)   A person acting in good faith on behalf of a business entity for a
legitimate business purpose, provided that this division does not apply to a
private investigator engaged in the business of private investigation on behalf
of another person;
      (5)   (a)   A private investigator or other person licensed under R.C. §
4749.03, who is acting in the normal course of the investigator’s business of
private investigation on behalf of another person and who has the consent of
the owner of the property upon which the tracking device or tracking
application is installed, for the purpose of obtaining information with
reference to any of the following:
            1.   Criminal offenses committed, threatened, or suspected against
the United States, a territory of the United States, a state, or any person or
legal entity;
            2.   Locating an individual known to be a fugitive from justice;
            3.   Locating lost or stolen property or other assets that have
been awarded by the court;
            4.   Investigating claims related to workers’ compensation.
         (b)   This division does not apply if the person on whose behalf the
private investigator is working is the subject of an Ohio protection order or a
protection order issued by a court of another state or if the private
investigator knows or reasonably should know that the person on whose behalf
the private investigator is working seeks the investigator’s services to aid in
the commission of a crime.
      (6)   An owner or lessee of a motor vehicle who installs, or directs the
installation of, a tracking device or tracking application on the vehicle
during the period of ownership or lease, if any of the following applies:
         (a)   The tracking device or tracking application is removed before
the vehicle’s title is transferred or the vehicle’s lease expires;
         (b)   The new owner of the vehicle, in the case of a sale, or the
lessor of the vehicle, in the case of an expired lease, consents in writing to
the non-removal of the tracking device or tracking application;
         (c)   The owner of the vehicle at the time of the installation of the
tracking device or tracking application was the original manufacturer of the
vehicle.
      (7)   A person who installs a tracking device or application on property
in which the person has an ownership or contractual interest, unless the person
is the subject of a protective order and the property is likely to be used by
the person who obtained the protective order;
      (8)   A person or business entity that installs a tracking device or
tracking application on any fixed wing aircraft or rotorcraft operated or
managed by the person or business entity pursuant to 14 C.F.R. part 91 or part
135 to track the position or movement of the fixed wing aircraft or rotorcraft;
      (9)   A surety bail bond agent, or any employee or contractor of a surety
bail bond agent, that installs a tracking device or tracking application on
another person’s property or causes a tracking device or tracking application
to track the position or movement of another person or another person’s
property as part of the surety bail bond agent’s, employee’s, or contractor’s
official responsibilities or duties.
   (E)   For purposes of division (D)(1) of this section, a probation officer,
parole officer, or employee of the department of rehabilitation and correction,
a halfway house, or a community-based correctional facility is engaged in the
lawful performance of the officer’s or employee’s duties if both of the
following apply:
      (1)   The court or the Department of Rehabilitation and Correction
imposes electronic monitoring on a person.
      (2)   The officer or employee installs or uses an electronic monitoring
device on that person in accordance with the court’s or department’s imposition
of electronic monitoring of that person.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal use of a tracking
device or application.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (F)(2) of this section,
illegal use of a tracking device or application is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (2)   Illegal use of a tracking device or application is a felony to be
prosecuted under state law if any of the following applies:
         (a)   The offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of this section, R.C. § 2903.216, or R.C. § 2903.211 or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
         (b)   At the time of the commission of the offense, the offender was
the subject of a protection order issued under R.C. § 2903.213 or 2903.214,
regardless of whether the person to be protected under the order is the victim
of the offense or another person.
         (c)   Prior to committing the offense, the offender had been
determined to represent a substantial risk of physical harm to others as
manifested by evidence of then-recent homicidal or other violent behavior,
evidence of then-recent threats that placed another in reasonable fear of
violent behavior and serious physical harm, or other evidence of then-present
dangerousness.
         (d)   The offender has a history of violence toward the victim or a
history of other violent acts towards the victim.
(R.C. § 2903.216)
§ 135.12 MISREPRESENTATION RELATING TO PROVISION OF CHILD CARE.
   (A)   No child care provider shall knowingly misrepresent any factor or
condition that relates to the provision of child care and that substantially
affects the health or safety of any child or children in that provider’s
facility or receiving child care from that provider to any of the following:
      (1)   A parent, guardian, custodian, or other person responsible for the
care of a child in the provider’s facility or receiving child care from the
provider;
      (2)   A parent, guardian, custodian, or other person responsible for the
care of a child who is considering the provider as a child care provider for
the child;
      (3)   A public official responsible for issuing the provider a license or
certificate to provide child care;
      (4)   A public official investigating or inquiring about the provision of
child care by the provider;
      (5)   A peace officer.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, “any factor or condition that
relates to the provision of child care” includes, but is not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   The person or persons who will provide child care to the child of
the parent, guardian, custodian, or other person responsible for the care of
the child, or to the children in general;
      (2)   The qualifications to provide child care of the child care
provider, of a person employed by the provider, or of a person who provides
child care as a volunteer;
      (3)   The number of children to whom child care is provided at one time
or the number of children receiving child care in the child care facility at
one time;
      (4)   The conditions or safety features of the child care facility;
      (5)   The area of the child care facility in which child care is
provided.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
misrepresentation by a child care provider, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2919.224)
§ 135.13 NONSUPPORT OF DEPENDENTS.
   (A)   No person shall abandon, or fail to provide adequate support to:
      (1)   The person's spouse, as required by law;
      (2)   The person's child who is under age 18, or the persons's child with
a mental or physical disability who is under age 21;
      (3)   The person's aged or infirm parent or adoptive parent, who from
lack of ability and means is unable to provide adequately for the parent's own
support.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall abandon, or fail to provide support as
established by a court order to, another person whom, by court order or decree,
the person:
         (a)   Is legally obligated to support; or
         (b)   Was legally obligated to support, and an amount for support:
            1.   Was due and owing prior to the date the person’s duty to pay
current support terminated; and
            2.   Remains unpaid.
      (2)   The period of limitation under R.C. § 2901.13 applicable to
division (B)(1)(b) of this section shall begin to run on the date the person’s
duty to pay current support terminates.
   (C)   No person shall aid, abet, induce, cause, encourage, or contribute to
a child or a ward of the juvenile court becoming a dependent child, as defined
in R.C. § 2151.04, or a neglected child, as defined in R.C. § 2151.03.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of failure to provide
adequate support under division (A) of this section or a charge of failure to
provide support established by a court order under division (B) of this section
that the accused was unable to provide adequate support or the established
support, but did provide the support that was within his or her ability and
means.
   (E)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(3) of this
section that the parent abandoned the accused or failed to support the accused
as required by law, while the accused was under age 18, or had a mental or
physical disability and was under age 21.
   (F)   It is not a defense to a charge under division (B) of this section
that the person whom a court has ordered the accused to support is being
adequately supported by someone other than the accused.
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) or (B) of this section is guilty of nonsupport of dependents, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (A)(2) or (B) of this section
or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or if the
offender has failed to provide support under division (A)(2) or (B) of this
section for a total accumulated period of 26 weeks out of 104 consecutive
weeks, whether or not the 26 weeks were consecutive, then a violation of
division (A)(2) or (B) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to a felony violation of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(2) or
(B) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the offender is guilty of nonsupport of dependents by reason of
failing to provide support to his or her child as required by a child support
order issued on or after April 15, 1985, pursuant to R.C. § 2151.23, 2151.231,
2151.232, 2151.33, 3105.21, 3109.05, 3111.13, 3113.04, 3113.31, 3115.401, or
former R.C. § 3115.31, the court, in addition to any other sentence imposed,
shall assess all court costs arising out of the charge against the person and
require the person to pay any reasonable attorney's fees of any adverse party
other than the state, as determined by the court, that arose in relation to the
charge.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of
contributing to the nonsupport of dependents, a misdemeanor of the first
degree. Each day of a violation of division (C) of this section is a separate
offense.
(R.C. § 2919.21)
§ 135.14 ENDANGERING CHILDREN.
   (A)   No person, who is the parent, guardian, custodian, person having
custody or control, or person in loco parentis of a child under 18 years of age
or a child with a mental or physical disability under 21 years of age, shall
create a substantial risk to the health or safety of the child by violating a
duty of care, protection, or support. It is not a violation of a duty of care,
protection, or support under this division when the parent, guardian,
custodian, or person having custody or control of a child treats the physical
or mental illness or disability of the child by spiritual means through prayer
alone, in accordance with the tenets of a recognized religious body.
   (B)   No person shall do any of the following to a child under 18 years of
age or a child with a mental or physical disability under 21 years of age:
      (1)   Abuse the child.
      (2)   Torture or cruelly abuse the child.
      (3)   Administer corporal punishment or other physical disciplinary
measure, or physically restrain the child in a cruel manner or for a prolonged
period, which punishment, discipline or restraint is excessive under the
circumstances and creates a substantial risk of serious physical harm to the
child.
      (4)   Repeatedly administer unwarranted disciplinary measures to a child
when there is a substantial risk that such conduct, if continued, will
seriously impair or retard the child's mental health or development.
      (5)   Entice, coerce, permit, encourage, compel, hire, employ, use, or
allow the child to act, model, or in any other way participate in, or be
photographed for, the production, presentation, dissemination, or advertisement
of any material or performance that the offender knows or reasonably should
know is obscene, is sexually oriented matter, or is nudity-oriented matter;
      (6)   Allow the child to be on the same parcel of real property and
within 100 feet of, or, in the case of more than one housing unit on the same
parcel of real property, in the same housing unit and within 100 feet of, any
act in violation of R.C. § 2925.04 or 2925.041 when the person knows that the
act is occurring, whether or not any person is prosecuted for or convicted of
the violation of R.C. § 2925.04 or 2925.041 that is the basis of the violation
of this division.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle, as defined by R.C. § 4511.01,
within the municipality and in violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, when one or more children under
18 years of age are in the vehicle. Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
a person may be convicted at the same trial or proceeding of a violation of
this division and a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that constitutes the basis of the charge of the
violation of this division. For purposes of R.C. §§ 4511.191 through 4511.197
and all related provisions of law, a person arrested for a violation of this
division shall be considered to be under arrest for operating a vehicle while
under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them or
for operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a
controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
      (2)   As used in division (C)(1) of this section:
         CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
         VEHICLE has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   (D)   (1)   Division (B)(5) of this section does not apply to any material
or performance that is produced, presented, or disseminated for a bona fide
medical, scientific, educational, religious, governmental, judicial, or other
proper purpose, by or to a physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist,
teacher, person pursing bona fide studies for research, librarian, member of
the clergy, prosecutor, judge, or other person having a proper interest in the
material or performance.
      (2)   Mistake of age is not a defense to a charge under division (B)(5)
of this section.
      (3)   In a prosecution under division (B)(5) of this section, the trier
of fact may infer that an actor, model, or participant in the material or
performance involved is a juvenile if the material or performance, through its
title, text, visual representation, or otherwise, represents or depicts the
actor, model, or participant as a juvenile.
      (4)   As used in this division and division (B)(5) of this section:
         MATERIAL, PERFORMANCE, OBSCENE, and SEXUAL ACTIVITY have the same
meanings as in R.C. § 2907.01.
         NUDITY-ORIENTED MATTER means any material or performance that shows a
minor in a state of nudity and that, taken as a whole by the average person
applying contemporary community standards, appeals to the prurient interest.
         SEXUALLY ORIENTED MATTER means any material or performance that shows
a minor participating or engaging in sexual activity, masturbation, or
bestiality.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of endangering children.
      (1)   If the offender violates division (A) or (B)(1) of this section,
endangering children is one of the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (E)(1)(b), (E)(1)(c) or
(E)(1)(d), a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of an offense
under this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, or of any offense involving neglect, abandonment, or contributing to
the delinquency of or physical abuse of a child, except as otherwise provided
in division (E)(1)(c) or (E)(1)(d) of this section, endangering children is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   If the violation is a violation of division (A) of this section
and results in serious physical harm to the child involved, endangering
children is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (d)   If the violation is a violation of division (B)(1) of this
section and results in serious physical harm to the child involved, endangering
children is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the offender violates division (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(5) or
(B)(6) of this section, endangering children is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the offender violates division (C) of this section, the offender
shall be punished as follows:
         (a)   Except as provided in (E)(3)(b) or (E)(3)(c), endangering
children in violation of division (C) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
         (b)   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the child
or if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this section
or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any
offense involving neglect, abandonment, or contributing to the delinquency of
or physical abuse of a child, except as otherwise provided in division (E)(3)
(c) of this section, endangering children in violation of division (C) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the child
and if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this
section, R.C. § 2903.06, 2903.08, 2919.22(C) or former R.C. § 2903.07 as it
existed prior to March 23, 2000, or R.C. § 2903.04, in a case in which the
offender was subject to the sanctions described in division (D) of that
section, endangering children in violation of division (C) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (d)   In addition to any term of imprisonment, fine, or other
sentence, penalty or sanction it imposes upon the offender pursuant to
divisions (E)(3)(a), (E)(3)(b) or (E)(3)(c) of this section or pursuant to any
other provision of law, and in addition to any suspension of the offender’s
driver’s license or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privilege under R.C. Chapter 4506, 4509, 4510, or 4511, or any other
provision of law, the court also may impose upon the offender a class seven
suspension of the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02
(A)(7).
         (e)   In addition to any term of imprisonment, fine, or other
sentence, penalty or sanction imposed upon the offender pursuant to division
(E)(3)(a), (E)(3)(b), (E)(3)(c) or (E)(3)(d) of this section or pursuant to any
other provision of law for the violation of division (C) of this section, if as
a part of the same trial or proceeding the offender also is convicted of or
pleads guilty to a separate charge charging the violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A),
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the
charge of the violation of division (C) of this section, the offender also
shall be sentenced in accordance with R.C. § 4511.19, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, for that violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (F)   (1)   If a person violates division (C) of this section and if, at the
time of the violation, there were two or more children under 18 years of age in
the motor vehicle involved in the violation, the offender may be convicted of a
violation of division (C) of this section for each of the children, but the
court may sentence the offender for only one of the violations.
      (2)   (a)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation
of division (C) of this section but the person is not also convicted of and
does not also plead guilty to a separate charge of violating R.C. § 4511.19(A),
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the
charge of the violation of division (C) of this section, both the following
apply:
            1.   For purposes of the provisions of R.C. § 4511.19, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that set forth the penalties and
sanctions for a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, the conviction of or plea of guilty to the violation of
division (C) of this section shall not constitute a violation of R.C. § 4511.19
(A), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
            2.   For purposes of the provisions of law that refers to a
conviction of or plea of guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and that is not described in
division (F)(2)(a)1. of this section, the conviction of or plea of guilty to
the violation of division (C) of this section shall constitute a conviction or
plea of guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
         (b)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (C) of this section and the person also is convicted of or pleads
guilty to a separate charge of violating R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the charge of the
violation of division (C) of this section, the conviction of or plea of guilty
to the violation of division (C) of this section shall not constitute, for the
purposes of any provision of law that refers to a conviction of or a plea of
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, a conviction of or a plea of guilty to a violation of R.C.
§ 4511.19(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 2919.22(A) - (E), (H))
Statutory reference:
   Community service, requirements, see R.C. § 2919.22(F)
   License suspension, requirements, see R.C. § 2919.22(G)
   Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.15
§ 135.15 INTERFERENCE WITH CUSTODY; INTERFERENCE WITH SUPPORT ORDERS.
   (A)   Interference with custody.
      (1)   No person, knowing that he or she is without privilege to do so or
being reckless in that regard, shall entice, take, keep, or harbor a person
identified in division (A)(1)(a), (A)(1)(b) or (A)(1)(c) of this section from
the parent, guardian, or custodian of the person identified in division (A)(1)
(a), (A)(1)(b) or (A)(1)(c) of this section:
         (a)   A child under the age of 18, or a child with a mental or
physical disability under the age of 21;
         (b)   A person committed by law to an institution for delinquent,
unruly, neglected, abused, or dependent children;
         (c)   A person committed by law to an institution for persons with
mental illnesses or an institution for persons with intellectual disabilities.
      (2)   No person shall aid, abet, induce, cause, or encourage a child or a
ward of the juvenile court who has been committed to the custody of any person,
department, or public or private institution to leave the custody of that
person, department, or institution without legal consent.
      (3)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of enticing or taking
under division (A)(1)(a) of this section that the actor reasonably believed
that his or her conduct was necessary to preserve the child's health or safety.
It is an affirmative defense to a charge of keeping or harboring under division
(A)(1) of this section that the actor in good faith gave notice to law
enforcement or judicial authorities within a reasonable time after the child or
committed person came under his or her shelter, protection, or influence.
      (4)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interference with
custody.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this subdivision, a violation of
division (A)(1)(a) above is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the child who
is the subject of a violation of division (A)(1)(a) is removed from the state
or if the offender previously has been convicted of an offense under this
section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (A)(1)(a) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law. If the child who is the subject of a violation of
division (A)(1)(a) suffers physical harm as a result of the violation, a
violation of division (A)(1)(a) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
         (b)   A violation of division (A)(1)(b) or (A)(1)(c) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
         (c)   A violation of division (A)(2) of this section is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. Each day of a violation of division (A)(2) is a separate
offense.
(R.C. § 2919.23)
   (B)   Interference with support orders.
      (1)   No person, by using physical harassment or threats of violence
against another person, shall interfere with the other person's initiation or
continuance of, or attempt to prevent the other person from initiating or
continuing, an action to issue or modify a support order under R.C. Chapter
3115, or under R.C. § 2151.23, 2151.231, 2151.232, 2151.33, 2151.36, 2151.361,
2151.49, 3105.18, 3105.21, 3109.05, 3109.19, 3111.13, 3113.04, 3113.07, or
3113.31.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of interfering with an
action to issue or modify a support order, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a
violation of this division (B) or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, or R.C. § 3111.19, interfering with an action to issue or
modify a support order is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
(R.C. § 2919.231)
§ 135.16 DOMESTIC VIOLENCE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cause or attempt to cause physical harm to a
family or household member.
   (B)   No person shall recklessly cause serious physical harm to a family or
household member.
   (C)   No person, by threat of force, shall knowingly cause a family or
household member to believe that the offender will cause imminent physical harm
to the family or household member.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of domestic violence,
and the court shall sentence the offender as provided in divisions (D)(2) to
(D)(5) of this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3), (D)(4) or (D)(5)
of this section, a violation of division (C) of this section is a misdemeanor
of the fourth degree and a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section is
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(4) of this section, if
the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted of domestic
violence, a violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or the United States that is substantially equivalent
to domestic violence, a violation of R.C. § 2903.14, 2909.06, 2909.07, 2911.12,
2911.211, or 2919.22 if the victim of the violation was a family or household
member at the time of the violation, a violation of an existing or former
municipal ordinance or law of this or any other state or the United States that
is substantially equivalent to any of those sections if the victim of the
violation was a family or household member at the time of the commission of the
violation, or any offense of violence if the victim of the offense was a family
or household member at the time of the commission of the offense, a violation
of division (A) or (B) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law, and a violation of division (C) is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (4)   If the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted
of two or more offenses of domestic violence or two or more violations or
offenses of the type described in division (D)(3) of this section involving a
person who was a family or household member at the time of the violations or
offenses, a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of division (C) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has
pleaded guilty to or been convicted of two or more offenses of domestic
violence or two or more violations or offenses of the type described in
division (D)(3) of this section involving a person who was a family or
household member at the time of the violations or offenses, and the offender
knew that the victim of the violation was pregnant at the time of the
violation, a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) or (D)(4) of this
section, if the offender knew that the victim of the violation was pregnant at
the time of the violation, a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law, and a violation of
division (C) of this section is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no court or unit
of state or local government shall charge any fee, cost, deposit, or money in
connection with the filing of charges against a person alleging that the person
violated this section or a municipal ordinance substantially equivalent to this
section or in connection with the prosecution of any charges so filed.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
offender:
            1.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse as defined below, or a
former spouse of the offender;
            2.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the offender, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the offender;
            3.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse, or
former spouse of the offender, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
offender.
         (b)   The natural parent of any child of whom the offender is the
other natural parent or is the putative other natural parent.
      PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE. Means a person who is living or has lived with
the offender in a common law marital relationship, who otherwise is cohabiting
with the offender, or who otherwise has cohabited with the offender within five
years prior to the date of the alleged commission of the act in question.
(R.C. § 2919.25)
Cross-reference:
   Jurisdictional limitation on Mayor regarding violations of this section, see
§
33.01(E)
   Violation of protection orders, see §
135.23
Statutory reference:
   Temporary protection orders, see R.C. § 2919.26
   Violation of protection order or consent agreement, factors to consider,
bail, see R.C. § 2919.251
§ 135.17 HAZING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      HAZING. Means doing any act or coercing another, including the victim, to
do any act of initiation into any student or other organization or any act to
continue or reinstate membership in or affiliation with any student or other
organization that causes or creates a substantial risk of causing mental or
physical harm to any person, including coercing another to consume alcohol or a
drug of abuse, as defined in R.C. § 3719.011.
      ORGANIZATION. Includes a national or international organization with
which a fraternity or sorority is affiliated.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall recklessly participate in the hazing of another.
      (2)   No administrator, employee, faculty member, teacher, consultant,
alumnus, or volunteer of any organization, including any primary, secondary, or
post-secondary school or any other educational institution, public or private,
shall recklessly permit the hazing of any person associated with the
organization.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall recklessly participate in the hazing of another
when the hazing includes coerced consumption of alcohol or drugs of abuse
resulting in serious physical harm to the other person.
      (2)   No administrator, employee, faculty member, teacher, consultant,
alumnus, or volunteer of any organization, including any primary, secondary, or
post-secondary school or any other educational institution, public or private,
shall recklessly permit the hazing of any person associated with the
organization when the hazing includes coerced consumption of alcohol or drugs
of abuse resulting in serious physical harm to that person.
   (D)   Whoever violates divisions (B) or (C) of this section is guilty of
hazing. A violation of division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the second degree. A violation of division (C)(1) or (C)(2) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.31)
   (E)   Reckless failure to immediately report knowledge of hazing.
      (1)   No administrator, employee, faculty member, teacher, consultant,
alumnus, or volunteer of any organization, including any primary, secondary, or
post-secondary school or any other public or private educational institution,
who is acting in an official and professional capacity shall recklessly fail to
immediately report the knowledge of hazing to a law enforcement agency in the
county in which the victim of hazing resides or in which the hazing is
occurring or has occurred.
      (2)   A violation of division (E)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree, except that the violation is a misdemeanor of the first
degree if the hazing causes serious physical harm.
(R.C. § 2903.311(B), (C))
Statutory reference:
   Civil liability for hazing, see R.C. § 2307.44
§ 135.18 CONTRIBUTING TO UNRULINESS OR DELINQUENCY OF A CHILD.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      DELINQUENT CHILD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2152.02.
      UNRULY CHILD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2151.022.
   (B)   No person, including a parent, guardian, or other custodian of a
child, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Aid, abet, induce, cause, encourage, or contribute to a child or a
ward of the juvenile court becoming an unruly child or a delinquent child;
      (2)   Act in a way tending to cause a child or a ward of the juvenile
court to become an unruly child or a delinquent child;
      (3)   Act in a way that contributes to an adjudication of the child as a
delinquent child based on the child’s violation of a court order adjudicating
the child an unruly child for being an habitual truant;
      (4)   If the person is the parent, guardian, or custodian of a child who
has the duties under R.C. Chapters 2152 and 2950 to register, register a new
residence address, and periodically verify a residence address, and, if
applicable, to send a notice of intent to reside, and if the child is not
emancipated, as defined in R.C. § 2919.121, fail to ensure that the child
complies with those duties under R.C. Chapters 2152 and 2950.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of contributing to the
unruliness or delinquency of a child, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each
day of violation of this section is a separate offense.
(R.C. § 2919.24)
Statutory reference:
   Failure to send child to school, see R.C. § 3321.38
§ 135.19 FAILURE TO PROVIDE FOR A PERSON WITH A FUNCTIONAL IMPAIRMENT.
   (A)   No caretaker shall knowingly fail to provide a person with a
functional impairment under the caretaker's care with any treatment, care,
goods, or service that is necessary to maintain the health or safety of the
person with a functional impairment when this failure results in physical harm
or serious physical harm to the person with a functional impairment.
   (B)   No caretaker shall recklessly fail to provide a person with a
functional impairment under the caretaker's care with any treatment, care,
goods, or service that is necessary to maintain the health or safety of the
person with a functional impairment when this failure results in serious
physical harm to the person with a functional impairment.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
knowingly failing to provide for a person with a functional impairment, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the person with a functional impairment
under the offender's care suffers serious physical harm as a result of the
violation of this section, a violation of division (A) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
recklessly failing to provide for a person with a functional impairment, a
misdemeanor of the second degree. If the person with a functional impairment
under the offender's care suffers serious physical harm as a result of the
violation of this section, a violation of division (B) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.16)
   (D)   As used in this section:
      CARETAKER. A person who assumes the duty to provide for the care and
protection of a person with a functional impairment on a voluntary basis, by
contract, through receipt of payment for care and protection, as a result of a
family relationship, or by order of a court of competent jurisdiction. The term
does not include a person who owns, operates, or administers, or who is an
agent or employee of, a care facility, as defined in R.C. § 2903.33.
      PERSON WITH A FUNCTIONAL IMPAIRMENT. Any person who has a physical or
mental impairment that prevents the person from providing for the person's own
care or protection or whose infirmities caused by aging prevent the person from
providing for the person's own care or protection.
(R.C. § 2903.10)
§ 135.20 PATIENT ABUSE OR NEGLECT; PATIENT ENDANGERMENT; EXCEPTIONS; FALSE
STATEMENTS; RETALIATION.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABUSE. Knowingly causing physical harm or recklessly causing serious
physical harm to a person by physical contact with the person or by the
inappropriate use of a physical or chemical restraint, medication or isolation
on the person.
      CARE FACILITY. Any of the following:
         (a)   Any “home” as defined in R.C. § 3721.10.
         (b)   Any “residential facility” as defined in R.C. § 5119.34 or
5123.19.
         (c)   Any institution or facility operated or provided by the
Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services or by the Department of
Developmental Disabilities pursuant to R.C. §§ 5119.14 and 5123.03.
         (d)   Any unit of any hospital, as defined in R.C. § 3701.01, that
provided the same services as a nursing home, as defined in R.C. § 3721.01.
         (e)   Any institution, residence or facility that provides, for a
period of more than 24 hours, whether for consideration or not, accommodations
to one individual or two unrelated individuals who are dependent upon the
services of others.
      GROSS NEGLECT. Knowingly failing to provide a person with any treatment,
care, goods or service that is necessary to maintain the health or safety of
the person when the failure results in serious physical harm to the person.
      INAPPROPRIATE USE OF A PHYSICAL OR CHEMICAL RESTRAINT, MEDICATION OR
ISOLATION. The use of physical or chemical restraint, medication or isolation
as punishment, for staff convenience, excessively, as a substitute for
treatment, or in quantities that preclude habilitation and treatment.
      NEGLECT. Recklessly failing to provide a person with any treatment, care,
goods or service that is necessary to maintain the health or safety of the
person when the failure results in serious physical harm to the person.
(R.C. § 2903.33)
   (B)   Patient abuse or neglect; spiritual treatment; defense.
      (1)   No person who owns, operates, or administers, or who is an agent or
employee of a care facility shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Commit abuse against a resident or patient of the facility.
         (b)   Commit gross neglect against a resident or patient of the
facility.
         (c)   Commit neglect against a resident or patient of the facility.
      (2)   (a)   A person who relies upon treatment by spiritual means through
prayer alone, in accordance with the tenets of a recognized religious
denomination, shall not be considered neglectful under division (B)(1)(c) of
this section for that reason alone.
         (b)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of gross neglect or
neglect under this section that the actor's conduct was committed in good faith
solely because the actor was ordered to commit the conduct by a person with
supervisory authority over the actor.
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(a) is guilty of patient
abuse, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (b)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(b) is guilty of gross patient
neglect, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been
convicted of, or pleaded guilty to, any violation of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, gross patient
neglect is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(c) is guilty of patient
neglect, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of, or pleaded guilty to, any violation of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, gross patient
neglect is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.34)
   (C)   Patient endangerment; spiritual treatment; defense.
      (1)   As used in this section:
         DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES CARETAKER. Means any developmental
disabilities employee or any person who assumes the duty to provide for the
care and protection of a person with a developmental disability on a voluntary
basis, by contract, through receipt of payment for care and protection, as a
result of a family relationship, or by order of a court of competent
jurisdiction. The phrase includes a person who is an employee of a care
facility and a person who is an employee of an entity under contract with a
provider. The phrase does not include a person who owns, operates, or
administers a care facility or who is an agent of a care facility unless that
person also personally provides care to a person with a developmental
disability.
         DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES EMPLOYEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5123.50.
         DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5123.01.
      (2)   No developmental disabilities caretaker shall create a substantial
risk to the health or safety of a person with a developmental disability. A
developmental disabilities caretaker does not create a substantial risk to the
health or safety of a person with a developmental disability under this
division when the developmental disabilities caretaker treats a physical or
mental illness or disability of the person with a developmental disability by
spiritual means through prayer alone, in accordance with the tenets of a
recognized religious body.
      (3)   No person who owns, operates, or administers a care facility or who
is an agent of a care facility shall condone, or knowingly permit, any conduct
by a developmental disabilities caretaker who is employed by or under the
control of the owner, operator, administrator, or agent that is in violation of
division (C)(2) of this section and that involves a person with a developmental
disability who is under the care of the owner, operator, administrator, or
agent. A person who relies upon treatment by spiritual means through prayer
alone, in accordance with the tenets of a recognized religious denomination,
shall not be considered endangered under this division for that reason alone.
      (4)   (a)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of
division (C)(2) or (C)(3) of this section that the actor’s conduct was
committed in good faith solely because the actor was ordered to commit the
conduct by a person to whom one of the following applies:
            1.   The person has supervisory authority over the actor.
            2.   The person has authority over the actor’s conduct pursuant to
a contract for the provision of services.
         (b)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of
division (C)(3) of this section that the person who owns, operates, or
administers a care facility or who is an agent of a care facility and who is
charged with the violation is following the individual service plan for the
involved person with a developmental disability or that the admission,
discharge, and transfer rule set forth in the Ohio Administrative Code is being
followed.
         (c)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of
division (C)(3) of this section that the actor did not have readily available a
means to prevent either the harm to the person with a developmental disability
or the death of such a person and the actor took reasonable steps to summon
aid.
      (5)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(5)(b) or (C)(5)(c) of this
section, whoever violates division (C)(2) or (C)(3) of this section is guilty
of patient endangerment, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of, or pleaded
guilty to, a violation of this section, patient endangerment is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the person
with a developmental disability, patient endangerment is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.341)
   (D)   False statements.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement, or knowingly
swear or affirm the truth of a false statement previously made, alleging a
violation of division (B) of this section when the statement is made with
purpose to incriminate another.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (D) is guilty of filing a false
patient abuse or neglect complaint, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2903.35)
   (E)   Retaliation against person reporting patient abuse or neglect. No care
facility shall discharge or in any manner discriminate or retaliate against any
person solely because such person, in good faith, filed a complaint, affidavit,
or other document alleging a violation of division (B) of this section or a
violation of R.C. § 2903.34.
(R.C. § 2903.36)
Statutory reference:
   License revocation for felony violations, see R.C. § 2903.37
§ 135.21 INTERFERENCE WITH RIGHT OF PERSON TO ENGAGE IN HOUSING TRANSACTIONS
BECAUSE OF RACE, RELIGION, OR THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person, whether or not acting under color of law, shall by force or
threat of force willfully injure, intimidate, or interfere with, or attempt to
injure, intimidate, or interfere with any of the following:
      (1)   Any person because of race, color, religion, sex, familial status,
as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, national origin, military status as defined in
that section, disability as defined in that section, or ancestry and because
that person is or has been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying,
contracting, or negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing, or
occupation of any housing accommodations, or applying for or participating in
any service, organization, or facility relating to the business of selling or
renting housing accommodations.
      (2)   Any person because that person is or has been doing, or in order to
intimidate that person or any other person or any class of persons from doing
either of the following:
         (a)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, familial status, as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, national origin,
military status as defined in that section, disability as defined in that
section, or ancestry, in any of the activities, services, organizations, or
facilities described in division (A)(1) of this section;
         (b)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
      (3)   Any person because that person is or has been, or in order to
discourage that person or any other person from, lawfully aiding or encouraging
other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, familial status as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, national origin,
military status as defined in that section, disability as defined in that
section, or ancestry, in any of the activities, services, organizations, or
facilities described in division (A)(1) of this section, or participating
lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of the opportunity
to so participate.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2927.03)
§ 135.22 ETHNIC INTIMIDATION.
   (A)   No person shall violate R.C. § 2903.21, 2903.22, 2909.06, or 2909.07,
or R.C. § 2917.21(A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5), by reason of the race, color,
religion, or national origin of another person or group of persons.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of ethnic intimidation. Ethnic
intimidation is an offense of the next higher degree than the offense the
commission of which is a necessary element of ethnic intimidation. In the case
of an offense that is a misdemeanor of the first degree, ethnic intimidation is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.12)
§ 135.23 VIOLATING A PROTECTION ORDER, CONSENT AGREEMENT, ANTI- STALKING
PROTECTION ORDER OR ORDER ISSUED BY A COURT OF ANOTHER STATE.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly violate the terms of any of the following:
      (1)   A protection order issued or consent agreement approved pursuant to
R.C. § 2919.26 or R.C. § 3113.31;
      (2)   A protection order issued pursuant to R.C. § 2151.34, 2903.213 or
2903.214;
      (3)   A protection order issued by a court of another state.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of violating a
protection order.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(3) or (B)(4) of this
section, violating a protection order is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   Violating a protection order is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the offender previously has been convicted of, pleaded
guilty to, or been adjudicated a delinquent child for any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of a protection order issued or consent agreement
approved pursuant to R.C. § 2151.34, 2903.213, 2903.214, 2919.26, or 3113.31,
or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance;
         (b)   Two or more violations of R.C. § 2903.21, 2903.211, 2903.22, or
2911.211, or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or
any combination of those offenses, that involved the same person who is the
subject of the protection order or consent agreement;
         (c)   One or more violations of this section, or any substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance.
      (4)   If the offender violates a protection order or consent agreement
while committing a felony offense, violating a protection order is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   If the protection order violated by the offender was an order
issued pursuant to R.C. §§ 2151.34 or 2903.214 that required electronic
monitoring of the offender pursuant to that section, the court may require in
addition to any other sentence imposed upon the offender that the offender be
electronically monitored for a period not exceeding five years by a law
enforcement agency designated by the court. If the court requires under this
division that the offender be electronically monitored, unless the court
determines that the offender is indigent, the court shall order that the
offender pay the costs of the installation of the electronic monitoring device
and the cost of monitoring the electronic monitoring device.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(3) of this
section that the protection order issued by a court of another state does not
comply with the requirements specified in 18 U.S.C. § 2265(b) for a protection
order that must be accorded full faith and credit by a court of this state or
that it is not entitled to full faith and credit under 18 U.S.C. § 2265(c).
   (D)   In a prosecution for a violation of this section, it is not necessary
for the prosecution to prove that the protection order or consent agreement was
served on the defendant if the prosecution proves that the defendant was shown
the protection order or consent agreement or a copy of either or a judge,
magistrate, or law enforcement officer informed the defendant that a protection
order or consent agreement had been issued, and proves that the defendant
recklessly violated the terms of the order or agreement.
   (E)   As used in this section, PROTECTION ORDER ISSUED BY A COURT OF ANOTHER
STATE means an injunction or another order issued by a criminal court of
another state for the purpose of preventing violent or threatening acts or
harassment against, contact or communication with, or physical proximity to
another person including a temporary order, and means an injunction or order of
that nature issued by a civil court of another state, including a temporary
order and a final order issued in an independent action or as a pendente lite
order in a proceeding for other relief, if the court issued it in response to a
complaint, petition or motion filed by or on behalf of a person seeking
protection. The term does not include an order for support or for custody of a
child issued pursuant to the divorce and child custody laws of another state,
except to the extent that the order for support or for custody of a child is
entitled to full faith and credit under the laws of the United States.
(R.C. § 2919.27)
Cross-reference:
   Jurisdictional limitation on Mayor regarding violations of this section, see
§
33.01(E)
§ 135.24 ADULTERATION OF FOOD.
   (A)   No person shall do either of the following, knowing or having
reasonable cause to believe that any person may suffer physical harm or be
seriously inconvenienced or annoyed thereby:
      (1)   Place a pin, razor blade, glass, laxative, drug of abuse, or other
harmful or hazardous object or substance in any food or confection.
      (2)   Furnish to any person any food or confection which has been
adulterated in violation of division (A)(1) of this section.
(R.C. § 3716.11)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 3716.99(C))
Statutory reference:
   Adulteration of food generally, see R.C. § 3715.59
§ 135.25 ILLEGAL DISTRIBUTION OF CIGARETTES, OTHER TOBACCO PRODUCTS, OR
ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCTS; TRANSACTION SCANS.
   (A)   Illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products.
      (1)   As used in this section:
         AGE VERIFICATION. A service provided by an independent third party
(other than a manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of
cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers
used to roll cigarettes) that compares information available from a
commercially available database, or aggregate of databases, that regularly are
used by government and businesses for the purpose of age and identity
verification to personal information provided during an internet sale or other
remote method of sale to establish that the purchaser is 21 years of age or
older.
         ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT.
            1.   Subject to division 2. of this definition, an electronic
cigarette or any other product or device that consists of or contains nicotine
that can be ingested into the body by any means, including, but not limited to,
chewing, smoking, absorbing, dissolving, or inhaling.
            2.   The phrase does not include any of the following:
               a.   Any cigarette or other tobacco product;
               b.   Any product that is a “drug” as that term is defined in 21
U.S.C. § 321(g)(1);
               c.   Any product that is a “device” as that term is defined in
21 U.S.C. § 321(h);
               d.   Any product that is a “combination product” as described in
21 U.S.C. § 353(g).
         CHILD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2151.011.
         CIGARETTE. Includes clove cigarettes and hand-rolled cigarettes.
         DISTRIBUTE. Means to furnish, give, or provide cigarettes, other
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes to the ultimate consumer of the cigarettes, other tobacco products,
alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes.
         ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE.
            1.   Subject to division 2. of this definition, any electronic
product or device that produces a vapor that delivers nicotine or any other
substance to the person inhaling from the device to simulate smoking and that
is likely to be offered to or purchased by consumers as an electronic
cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, or electronic pipe.
            2.   The phrase does not include any item, product, or device
described in division 2. of the definition for “alternative nicotine product”
in this section.
         ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE. Means any device that can be used to
deliver aerosolized or vaporized nicotine to the person inhaling from the
device, including, but not limited to, an e-cigarette, e-cigar, e-pipe, vape
pen or e-hookah, electronic smoking device includes any component, part or
accessory of such a device, whether or not sold separately, and includes any
substance intended to be aerosolized or vaporized during the use of the device,
electronic smoking device does not include drugs, devices, or combination
products authorized for sale by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, as those
terms are defined in the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act.
         PERSON UNDER 21. For purposes of this section, means a person who has
reached the age of 18 years but has not vet reached the age of 21 years.
         PROOF OF AGE. Means a driver’s license, a commercial driver’s license,
a military identification card, a passport, or an identification card issued
under R.C. §§ 4507.50 to 4507.52 that shows that a person is 18 years of age or
older.
         TOBACCO PRODUCT.Means any product that is made from or derived from
tobacco, and is intended for human consumption or is likely to be consumed,
whether smoked, heated, chewed, absorbed, dissolved, inhaled or ingested by any
other means, including, but not limited to, a cigarette, a cigar, pipe tobacco,
chewing tobacco, snuff, or snus, the term also includes tobacco product
paraphernalia, including but not limited to, electronic smoking devices and any
component or accessory used in the consumption of a tobacco product such as
filters, rolling papers, pipes, or liquids used in electronic smoking devices,
whether or not they contain nicotine. TOBACCO PRODUCT does not include drugs,
devices, or combination products authorized for sale by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration, as those terms are defined in the Federal Food, Drug and
Cosmetic Act.
         TOBACCO PRODUCT PARAPHERNALIA. Means any product that is used to
assist in chewing, smoking, absorbing, dissolving, inhaling, or any other
consumption of nicotine to include, but not limited to pipes, rolling papers,
and electronic cigarette cases.
         VENDING MACHINE. Has the same meaning as “coin machine” in R.C. §
2913.01.
      (2)   No manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of
cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers
used to roll cigarettes, no agent, employee, or representative of a
manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of cigarettes,
other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes, and no other person shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Give, sell, or otherwise distribute cigarettes, other tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes to
any child or person under 21, except as otherwise provided by divisions (D) and
(E) of R.C. § 2927.02;
         (b)   Give away, sell, or distribute cigarettes, other tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes in
any place that does not have posted in a conspicuous place a sign stating that
giving, selling, or otherwise distributing cigarettes, other tobacco products,
alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes to a person
under 21 years of age is prohibited by law, except as otherwise provided by
divisions (D) and (K) of R.C. § 2927.02;
         (c)   Knowingly furnish any false information regarding the name, age,
or other identification of any child or person under 21 with purpose to obtain
cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers
used to roll cigarettes for that child or person under 21;
         (d)   Manufacture, sell, or distribute in this state any pack or other
container of cigarettes containing fewer than 20 cigarettes or any package of
roll-your-own tobacco containing less than six- tenths of one ounce of tobacco;
         (e)   Sell cigarettes or alternative nicotine products in a smaller
quantity than that placed in the pack or other container by the manufacturer;
         (f)   Give, sell, or otherwise distribute alternative nicotine
products, papers used to roll cigarettes, or tobacco products other than
cigarettes over the internet or through another remote method without age
verification ;
         (g)   Give, sell, or otherwise distribute cigarettes, other tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes to
any person under 21.
      (3)   No person shall sell or offer to sell cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products by or from a vending machine, except
in the following locations:
         (a)   An area within a factory, business, office, or other place not
open to the general public;
         (b)   An area to which children are not generally permitted access;
         (c)   Any other place not identified in division (A)(3)(a) or (A)(3)
(b) of this section, upon all of the following conditions:
            1.   The vending machine is located within the immediate vicinity,
plain view, and control of the person who owns or operates the place, or an
employee of that person, so that all cigarettes, other tobacco product, and
alternative nicotine product purchases from the vending machine will be readily
observed by the person who owns or operates the place or an employee of that
person. For the purpose of this section, a vending machine located in any
unmonitored area, including an unmonitored coatroom, restroom, hallway, or
outer waiting area, shall not be considered located within the immediate
vicinity, plain view, and control of the person who owns or operates the place,
or an employee of that person.
            2.   The vending machine is inaccessible to the public when the
place is closed.
      (4)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under division
(A)(2)(a) of this section:
         (a)   The child or person under 21 was accompanied by a parent, spouse
who is 18 years of age or older, or legal guardian of the child.
         (b)   The person who gave, sold, or distributed cigarettes, other
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes to a child under division (A)(2)(a) of this section or to a person
under 21 under division (A)(2)(g) of this section is a parent, spouse who is 18
years of age or older, or legal guardian of the child or person under 21.
      (5)   It is not a violation of division (A)(2)(a), (A)(2)(b) or (A)(2)(g)
of this section for a person to give or otherwise distribute to a child or
person under 21 cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or papers used to roll cigarettes while the child or person under 21
is participating in a research protocol if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The parent, guardian, or legal custodian of the child has
consented in writing to the child participating in the research protocol, or
person under 21 has consented in writing on his or her own behalf.
         (b)   An institutional human subjects protection review board, or an
equivalent entity, has approved the research protocol.
         (c)   The child or person under 21 is participating in the research
protocol at the facility or location specified in the research protocol.
      (6)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(2)(a), (A)(2)(b), (A)(2)(d),
(A)(2)(e), or (A)(2)(f) or (A)(3) of this section is guilty of illegal
distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products. Except as otherwise provided in this division, illegal distribution
of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of a violation of division (A)(2)(a), (A)(2)(b), (A)(2)(d), (A)(2)(e), or (A)
(2)(f) or (A)(3) of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products is a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
         (b)   Whoever violates division (A)(2)(c) of this section is guilty of
permitting children to use cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative
nicotine products. Except as otherwise provided in this division, permitting
children to use cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a violation of division (A)(2)(c) of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, permitting children
to use cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is
a misdemeanor of the third degree.
         (c)   Whoever violates division (A)(2)(g) of this section is guilty of
illegal distribution of cigarettes, or other tobacco products, or alternative
nicotine products to a person under 21. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products to a person under 21 shall be a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation
of division (A)(2)(c) or (A)(2)(g) of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, illegal distribution of
cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products to a
person under 21 is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (7)   Any cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or papers used to roll cigarettes that are given, sold, or otherwise
distributed to a child in violation of this section and that are used,
possessed, purchased, or received by a child in violation of R.C. § 2151.87 are
subject to seizure and forfeiture as contraband under R.C. Chapter 2981.
   (B)   Transaction scan.
      (1)   As used in this division and division (C) of this section:
         CARD HOLDER. Means any person who presents a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card to a seller, or an agent or employee
of a seller, to purchase or receive cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products from a seller, agent, or employee.
         IDENTIFICATION CARD. Means an identification card issued under R.C. §§
4507.50 through 4507.52.
         SELLER. Means a seller of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products and includes any person whose gift of or other
distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products is subject to the prohibitions of division (A) of this section.
         TRANSACTION SCAN. Means the process by which a seller or an agent or
employee of a seller checks, by means of a transaction scan device, the
validity of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification card
that is presented as a condition for purchasing or receiving cigarettes, other
tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products.
         TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE. Means any commercial device or combination of
devices used at a point of sale that is capable of deciphering in an
electronically readable format the information encoded on the magnetic strip or
bar code of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification
card.
      (2)   (a)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may perform a
transaction scan by means of a transaction scan device to check the validity of
a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a
card holder as a condition for selling, giving away, or otherwise distributing
to the card holder cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products.
         (b)   If the information deciphered by the transaction scan performed
under division (B)(2)(a) of this section fails to match the information printed
on the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by the card holder, or if the transaction scan indicates that the information
so printed is false or fraudulent, neither the seller nor any agent or employee
of the seller shall sell, give away, or otherwise distribute any cigarettes,
other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products to the card holder.
         (c)   Division (B)(2)(a) of this section does not preclude a seller or
an agent or employee of a seller from using a transaction scan device to check
the validity of a document other than a driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or identification card, if the document includes a bar code or magnetic strip
that may be scanned by the device, as a condition for selling, giving away, or
otherwise distributing cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative
nicotine products to the person presenting the document.
      (3)   Rules adopted by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles under R.C. §
4301.61(C) apply to the use of transaction scan devices for purposes of this
division (B) and division (C) of this section.
      (4)   (a)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall
electronically or mechanically record or maintain any information derived from
a transaction scan, except for the following:
            1.   The name and date of birth of the person listed on the
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the
card holder;
            2.   The expiration date and identification number of the driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the card
holder.
         (b)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use the
information that is derived from a transaction scan or that is permitted to be
recorded and maintained under division (B)(4)(a) of this section, except for
purposes of division (C) of this section.
         (c)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use a
transaction scan device for a purpose other than the purpose specified in
division (C)(2)(a) of this section.
         (d)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall sell or
otherwise disseminate the information derived from a transaction scan to any
third party, including but not limited to selling or otherwise disseminating
that information for any marketing, advertising, or promotional activities, but
a seller or agent or employee of a seller may release that information pursuant
to a court order or as specifically authorized by division (C) of this section
or another section of this code or the Ohio Revised Code.
      (5)   Nothing in this division (B) or division (C) of this section
relieves a seller or an agent or employee of a seller of any responsibility to
comply with any other applicable local, state or federal laws or rules
governing the sale, giving away, or other distribution of cigarettes, other
tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (B)(2)(b) or (B)(4) of this section is
guilty of engaging in an illegal tobacco product or alternative nicotine
product transaction scan, and the court may impose upon the offender a civil
penalty of up to $1,000 for each violation. The Clerk of the Court shall pay
each collected civil penalty to the County Treasurer for deposit into the
County Treasury.
   (C)   Affirmative defenses.
      (1)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may not be found
guilty of a charge of a violation of division (A) of this section in which the
age of the purchaser or other recipient of cigarettes, other tobacco products,
or alternative nicotine products is an element of the alleged violation, if the
seller, agent, or employee raises and proves as an affirmative defense that all
of the following occurred:
         (a)   Whether a person to whom the seller or agent or employee of a
seller sells, gives away, or otherwise distributes cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products is 21 years of age or older;
         (b)   A transaction scan of the driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or identification card that the card holder presented indicated that
the license or card was valid.
         (c)   The cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products were sold, given away, or otherwise distributed to the card holder in
reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and the completed
transaction scan.
      (2)   In determining whether a seller or an agent or employee of a seller
has proven the affirmative defense provided by division (C)(1) of this section,
the trier of fact in the action for the alleged violation of division (A) of
this section shall consider any written policy that the seller has adopted and
implemented and that is intended to prevent violations of division (A) of this
section. For purposes of division (C)(1)(c) of this section, the trier of fact
shall consider that reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and
the completed transaction scan may require a seller or an agent or employee of
a seller to exercise reasonable diligence to determine, and that the use of a
transaction scan device does not excuse a seller or an agent or employee of a
seller from exercising reasonable diligence to determine, the following:
         (a)   Whether a person to whom the seller or agent or employee of a
seller sells, gives away, or otherwise distributes cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products is 18 years of age or older;
         (b)   Whether the description and picture appearing on the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a card holder
is that of the card holder.
      (3)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense provided by
division (C)(1) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a
deputy registrar who issued an identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50
through 4507.52 shall be permitted to submit certified copies of the records of
that issuance in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of or contractors with
the Bureau of Motor Vehicles in the action.
   (D)   Shipment of tobacco products.
      (1)   As used in this division (D):
         AUTHORIZED RECIPIENT OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS means a person who is:
            1.   Licensed as a cigarette wholesale dealer under R.C. § 5743.15;
            2.   Licensed as a retail dealer as long as the person purchases
cigarettes with the appropriate tax stamp affixed;
            3.   An export warehouse proprietor as defined in Section 5702 of
the Internal Revenue Code;
            4.   An operator of a customs bonded warehouse under 19 U.S.C. §
1311 or 19 U.S.C. § 1555;
            5.   An officer, employee, or agent of the federal government or of
this state acting in the person’s official capacity;
            6.   A department, agency, instrumentality, or political
subdivision of the federal government or of this state;
            7.   A person having a consent for consumer shipment issued by the
Tax Commissioner under R.C. § 5743.71.
         MOTOR CARRIER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4923.01.
      (2)   The purpose of this division (D) is to prevent the sale of
cigarettes to minors and to ensure compliance with the Master Settlement
Agreement, as defined in R.C. § 1346.01, and to prevent the sale of cigarettes
and other tobacco products to persons under 21.
      (3)   (a)   No person shall cause to be shipped any cigarettes to any
person in this municipality other than an authorized recipient of tobacco
products.
         (b)   No motor carrier or other person shall knowingly transport
cigarettes to any person in this municipality that the carrier or other person
reasonably believes is not an authorized recipient of tobacco products. If
cigarettes are transported to a home or residence, it shall be presumed that
the motor carrier or other person knew that the person to whom the cigarettes
were delivered was not an authorized recipient of tobacco products.
      (4)   No person engaged in the business of selling cigarettes who ships
or causes to be shipped cigarettes to any person in this municipality in any
container or wrapping other than the original container or wrapping of the
cigarettes shall fail to plainly and visibly mark the exterior of the container
or wrapping in which the cigarettes are shipped with the words “cigarettes”.
      (5)   A court shall impose a fine of up to $1,000 for each violation of
division (D)(3)(a), (D)(3)(b) or (D)(4) of this section.
   (E)   Compliance with regulations.
      (1)   All manufacturers, producers, distributors, wholesalers, or
retailers of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or tobacco product
paraphernalia shall comply with any applicable certification requirements
promulgated by the Summit County Combined General Health District.
      (2)   Whoever violates this section shall be subject to a civil penalty
for illegal distribution of cigarettes, tobacco products, or tobacco product
paraphernalia. Whoever violates this section shall not be subject to a fine for
a first violation. A civil fine of $500 will be issued for a second violation
of this section. A civil fine of $1,000 will be issued for all subsequent
violations.
      (3)   All fines collected by the Summit County Combined General Health
District pursuant to this section shall be utilized for efforts to prevent
smoking initiation by persons under the age of 21 or for efforts to promote
smoking cessation, including supports for those who will no longer be able to
purchase cigarettes or other tobacco products pursuant to this section.
      (4)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this title, enforcement
authority of this section shall rest with the Summit County Combined General
Health District pursuant to R.C. § 3709.281. Enforcement of this section,
including the issuance of penalties, shall only be undertaken following the
adoption of regulations by the Summit County Combined General Health District
relating to the enforcement.
(Ord. 2018-30, passed 5-2-18; Am. Ord. 2018-81, passed 10-17-18)
§ 135.26 NONSMOKING AREAS IN PLACES OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY.
   (A)   As used in this section, PLACE OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY means:
      (1)   Enclosed theaters, except the lobby; opera houses; auditoriums;
classrooms; elevators; rooms in which persons are confined as a matter of
health care, including but not limited to a hospital room and a room in a
residential care facility serving as the residence of a person living in such
residential care facility.
      (2)   All buildings and other enclosed structures owned by the state, its
agencies, or political subdivisions, including but not limited to hospitals and
state institutions for the mentally disabled and the mentally ill; university
and college buildings, except rooms within those buildings used primarily as
the residences of students or other persons affiliated with the university or
college; office buildings; libraries; museums; and vehicles used in public
transportation. That portion of a building or other enclosed structure that is
owned by the state, a state agency, or a political subdivision, and that is
used primarily as a food service establishment, is not a place of public
assembly.
      (3)   Each portion of a building or enclosed structure that is not
included in division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is a place of public
assembly if it has a seating capacity of 50 or more persons and is available to
the public. Restaurants, food service establishments, dining rooms, cafes,
cafeterias, or other rooms used primarily for the service of food, as well as
bowling alleys and places licensed by the Ohio Division of Liquor Control to
sell intoxicating beverages for consumption on the premises, are not places of
public assembly.
   (B)   For the purpose of separating persons who smoke from persons who do
not smoke for the comfort and health of persons not smoking, in every place of
public assembly there shall be an area where smoking is not permitted, which
shall be designated a no smoking area, provided that not more than one-half of
the rooms in any health care facility in which persons are confined as a matter
of health care may be designated as smoking areas in their entirety. The
designation shall be made before the place of public assembly is made available
to the public. In places included in division (A)(1) of this section, the local
fire authority having jurisdiction shall designate the no smoking area. In
places included in division (A)(2) of this section that are owned by the state
or its agencies, the Ohio Director of Administrative Services shall designate
the area, and if the place is owned by a political subdivision, its legislative
authority shall designate an officer who shall designate the area. In places
included in division (A)(3) of this section, the person having control of the
operations of the place of public assembly shall designate the no smoking area.
In places included in division (A)(2) of this section which are also included
in division (A)(1) of this section, the officer who has authority to designate
the area in places in division (A)(2) of this section shall designate the no
smoking area. A no smoking area may include the entire place of public
assembly. Designations shall be made by the placement of signs that are clearly
visible and that state “no smoking.” No person shall remove signs from areas
designated as no smoking areas.
   (C)   SMOKING means to burn any substance containing tobacco, including a
lighted cigarette, cigar, or pipe, or to burn a clove cigarette.
   (D)   No person shall smoke in any area designated as a no smoking area in
accordance with division (B) of this section. Except as otherwise provided
herein or in the Code of Ordinances and rules of Council, smoking shall not be
regulated by the village. Nothing in this ordinance shall prevent a property
owner from barring smoking within the confines of the property owner’s
property. This section does not affect or modify the prohibition in R.C. §
3313.751(B).
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 16, passed 2-2-06)
§ 135.27 SPREADING CONTAGION.
   (A)   No person, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the
person has a dangerous, contagious disease, shall knowingly fail to take
reasonable measures to prevent exposing self to other persons, except when
seeking medical aid.
   (B)   No person, having charge or care of a person whom the person having
charge or care knows or has reasonable cause to believe has a dangerous,
contagious disease, shall recklessly fail to take reasonable measures to
protect others from exposure to the contagion, and to inform health authorities
of the existence of the contagion.
   (C)   No person, having charge of a public conveyance or place of public
accommodation, amusement, resort, or trade, and knowing or having reasonable
cause to believe that persons using such conveyance or place have been or are
being exposed to a dangerous, contagious disease, shall negligently fail to
take reasonable measures to protect the public from exposure to the contagion,
and to inform health authorities of the existence of the contagion.
(R.C. § 3701.81)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second
degree.
(R.C. § 3701.99(C))
Statutory reference:
   Contagion and quarantine, see R.C. §§ 3707.04 et seq.
   Power to prevent contagious diseases, see R.C. § 715.37
§ 135.28 ABUSE OF A CORPSE.
   (A)   No person, except as authorized by law, shall treat a human corpse in
a way that he or she knows would outrage reasonable family sensibilities.
   (B)   No person, except as authorized by law, shall treat a human corpse in
a way that would outrage reasonable community sensibilities.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of abuse of a
corpse, a misdemeanor of the second degree. Whoever violates division (B) of
this section is guilty of gross abuse of a corpse, a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.01)
§ 135.29 UNLAWFUL COLLECTION OF BODILY SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly collect any blood, urine, tissue, or other
bodily substance of another person without privilege or consent to do so.
   (B)   (1)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
         (a)   The collection of any bodily substance of a person by a law
enforcement officer, or by another person pursuant to the direction or advice
of a law enforcement officer, for purposes of a chemical test or tests of the
substance under R.C. § 1547.111(A)(1) or R.C. § 4511.191(A)(2) to determine the
alcohol, drug, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or
combination content of the bodily substance;
         (b)   The collection of any bodily substance of a person by a peace
officer, or by another person pursuant to the direction or advice of a peace
officer, for purposes of a test or tests of the substance as provided in R.C. §
4506.17(A) to determine the person’s alcohol concentration or the presence of
any controlled substance or metabolite of a controlled substance.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section shall not be construed as implying
that the persons identified in divisions (B)(1)(a) and (b) of this section do
not have privilege to collect the bodily substance of another person as
described in those divisions or as limiting the definition of “privilege” set
forth in R.C. § 2901.01.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of unlawful
collection of a bodily substance. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, unlawful collection of a bodily substance is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (A) of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, unlawful collection of a bodily
substance is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.15)
CHAPTER 136: OFFENSES AGAINST JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
136.01   Definitions
   
136.02   Falsification
   
136.03   Compounding a crime
   
136.04   Failure to report a crime
   
136.05   Failure to aid a law enforcement officer
   
136.06   Obstructing official business
   
136.07   Obstructing justice
   
136.08   Resisting arrest
   
136.09   Having an unlawful interest in a public contract
   
136.10   Soliciting or receiving improper compensation
   
136.11   Dereliction of duty
   
136.12   Interfering with civil rights
   
136.13   Illegal conveyance of prohibited items onto grounds of a detention
facility or other specified governmental facility
   
136.14   False report of child abuse or neglect
   
136.15   Assaulting police dog or horse, or assistance dog
   
136.16   Disclosure of confidential peace officer information
   
136.17   Intimidation of crime victim or witness
   
136.18   Using sham legal process
   
136.19   Making false allegation of peace officer misconduct
   
136.20   Misuse of 9-1-1 system
   
136.21   Failure to disclose personal information
Cross-reference:
   Contempt of court, see §§ 33.20 et seq.
   Failure to comply with order or signal of a police officer, see §
70.02
Statutory reference:
   Escape from detention, see R.C. § 2921.34
   Harassment by inmates by causing or attempting to cause contact with blood,
semen, urine, feces or other bodily substance; knowledge of AIDS, hepatitis or
tuberculosis infection; felony offenses, see R.C. § 2921.38
§ 136.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE, CONTRIBUTION, LEGISLATIVE CAMPAIGN FUND, POLITICAL
ACTION COMMITTEE, POLITICAL CONTRIBUTING ENTITY, and POLITICAL PARTY. Have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   DETENTION. Arrest; confinement in any vehicle subsequent to an arrest;
confinement in any public or private facility for custody of persons charged
with or convicted of crime in this state or another state or under the laws of
the United States or alleged or found to be a delinquent child or unruly child
in this state or another state or under the laws of the United States;
hospitalization, institutionalization, or confinement in any public or private
facility that is ordered pursuant to or under the authority of R.C. § 2945.37,
2945.371, 2945.38, 2945.39, 2945.40, 2945.401 or 2945.402; confinement in any
vehicle for transportation to or from any facility of any of those natures;
detention for extradition or deportation; except as provided in this division,
supervision by any employee of any facility of any of those natures that is
incidental to hospitalization, institutionalization, or confinement in the
facility but that occurs outside the facility; supervision by an employee of
the Department of Rehabilitation and Correction of a person on any type of
release from a state correctional institution; or confinement in any vehicle,
airplane, or place while being returned from outside of this state into this
state by a private person or entity pursuant to a contract entered into under
R.C. § 311.29(E) or R.C. § 5149.03(B). For a person confined in a county jail
who participates in a county jail industry program pursuant to R.C. § 5147.30,
DETENTION includes time spent at an assigned work site and going to and from
the work site.
   DETENTION FACILITY. Any public or private place used for the confinement of
a person charged with or convicted of any crime in this state or another state
or under the laws of the United States or alleged or found to be a delinquent
child or an unruly child in this state or another state or under the laws of
the United States.
   OFFICIAL PROCEEDING. Any proceeding before a legislative, judicial,
administrative, or other governmental agency or official authorized to take
evidence under oath, and includes any proceeding before a referee, hearing
examiner, commissioner, notary, or other person taking testimony or a
deposition in connection with an official proceeding.
   PARTY OFFICIAL. Any person who holds an elective or appointive post in a
political party in the United States or this state, by virtue of which he or
she directs, conducts, or participates in directing or conducting party affairs
at any level of responsibility.
   PROVIDER AGREEMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5164.01.
   PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Any elected or appointed officer, employee, or agent of the
state or any political subdivision thereof, whether in a temporary or permanent
capacity, and includes but is not limited to legislators, judges, and law
enforcement officers. The term does not include an employee, officer, or
governor-appointed member of the board of directors of the nonprofit
corporation formed under R.C. § 187.01.
   PUBLIC SERVANT.
      (1)   Any of the following:
         (a)   Any public official.
         (b)   Any person performing ad hoc a governmental function, including
but not limited to a juror, member of a temporary commission, master,
arbitrator, advisor, or consultant.
         (c)   A person who is a candidate for public office, whether or not he
or she is elected or appointed to the office for which he or she is a
candidate. A person is a candidate for purposes of this division if he or she
has been nominated according to law for election or appointment to public
office, or if he or she has filed a petition or petitions as required by law to
have his or her name placed on the ballot in a primary, general, or special
election, or if he or she campaigns as a write-in candidate in any primary,
general, or special election.
      (2)   The term does not include an employee, officer, or governor-
appointed member of the board of directors of the nonprofit corporation formed
under R.C. § 187.01.
   VALUABLE THING or VALUABLE BENEFIT. Includes, but is not limited to, a
contribution. This inclusion does not indicate or imply that a contribution was
not included in those terms before September 17, 1986.
(R.C. § 2921.01)
§ 136.02 FALSIFICATION.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement, or knowingly swear
or affirm the truth of a false statement previously made, when any of the
following applies:
      (1)   The statement is made in any official proceeding.
      (2)   The statement is made with purpose to incriminate another.
      (3)   The statement is made with purpose to mislead a public official in
performing his or her official function.
      (4)   The statement is made with purpose to secure the payment of
unemployment compensation; Ohio Works First; prevention, retention and
contingency benefits and services; disability financial assistance; retirement
benefits or health care coverage from a state retirement system; economic
development assistance as defined in R.C. § 9.66; or other benefits
administered by a governmental agency or paid out of a public treasury.
      (5)   The statement is made with purpose to secure the issuance by a
governmental agency of a license, permit, authorization, certificate,
registration, release, or provider agreement.
      (6)   The statement is sworn or affirmed before a notary public or
another person empowered to administer oaths.
      (7)   The statement is in writing on or in connection with a report or
return that is required or authorized by law.
      (8)   The statement is in writing, and is made with purpose to induce
another to extend credit to or employ the offender, or to confer any degree,
diploma, certificate of attainment, award of excellence, or honor on the
offender, or to extend to or bestow upon the offender any other valuable
benefit or distinction, when the person to whom the statement is directed
relies upon it to his or her detriment.
      (9)   The statement is made with purpose to commit or facilitate the
commission of a theft offense.
      (10)   The statement is knowingly made to a probate court in connection
with any action, proceeding, or other matter within its jurisdiction, either
orally or in a written document, including, but not limited to, an application,
petition, complaint, or other pleading, or an inventory, account, or report.
      (11)   The statement is made on an account, form, record, stamp, label or
other writing that is required by law.
      (12)   The statement is made in connection with the purchase of a
firearm, as defined in R.C. § 2923.11, and in conjunction with the furnishing
to the seller of the firearm of a fictitious or altered driver's or commercial
driver's license or permit, a fictitious or altered identification card, or any
other document that contains false information about the purchaser's identity.
      (13)   The statement is made in a document or instrument of writing that
purports to be a judgment, lien, or claim of indebtedness and is filed or
recorded with the Secretary of State, a county recorder, or the clerk of a
court of record.
      (14)   The statement is made in an application filed with a county
sheriff pursuant to R.C. § 2923.125 in order to obtain or renew a concealed
handgun license or is made in an affidavit submitted to a county sheriff to
obtain a concealed handgun license on a temporary emergency basis under R.C. §
2923.1213.
      (15)   The statement is required under R.C. § 5743.71 in connection with
the person’s purchase of cigarettes or tobacco products in a delivery sale.
   (B)   No person, in connection with the purchase of a firearm as defined in
R.C. § 2923.11, shall knowingly furnish to the seller of the firearm a
fictitious or altered driver's or commercial driver's license or permit, a
fictitious or altered identification card, or any other document that contains
false information about the purchaser's identity.
   (C)   No person, in an attempt to obtain a concealed handgun license under
R.C. § 2923.125, shall knowingly present to a sheriff a fictitious or altered
document that purports to be certification of the person’s competence in
handling a handgun as described in division (B)(3) of that section.
   (D)   It is no defense to a charge under division (A)(6) of this section
that the oath or affirmation was administered or taken in an irregular manner.
   (E)   If contradictory statements relating to the same fact are made by the
offender within the period of the statute of limitations for falsification, it
is not necessary for the prosecution to prove which statement was false, but
only that one or the other was false.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), (A)
(5), (A)(6), (A)(7), (A)(8), (A)(10), (A)(11), (A)(13), or (A)(15) of this
section is guilty of falsification. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, falsification is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(9) of this section is guilty of
falsification in a theft offense. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, falsification in a theft offense is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the value of the property or services stolen is $1,000 or more,
falsification in a theft offense is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(12) or (B) of this section is guilty
of falsification to purchase a firearm, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (A)(14) or (C) of this section is guilty
of falsification to obtain a concealed handgun license, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section in removal
proceedings under R.C. § 319.26, 321.37, 507.13 or 733.78 is guilty of
falsification regarding a removal proceeding, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.13)
   (G)   (1)   No person who has knowingly failed to maintain proof of
financial responsibility in accordance with R.C. § 4509.101 shall produce any
document or present to a peace officer an electronic wireless communications
device that is displaying any text or images with the purpose to mislead a
peace officer upon the request of a peace officer for proof of financial
responsibility made in accordance with R.C. § 4509.101(D)(2).
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (G) is guilty of falsification, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4509.102)
Statutory reference:
   Civil liability for violations of this section, see R.C. § 2921.13(G)
§ 136.03 COMPOUNDING A CRIME.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly demand, accept, or agree to accept anything
of value in consideration of abandoning or agreeing to abandon a pending
criminal prosecution.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section when both
of the following apply:
      (1)   The pending prosecution involved is for a violation of R.C. §
2913.02, 2913.11, 2913.21(B)(2), or 2913.47, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, of which the actor under this section was the victim.
      (2)   The thing of value demanded, accepted, or agreed to be accepted, in
consideration of abandoning or agreeing to abandon the prosecution, did not
exceed an amount that the actor reasonably believed due him or her as
restitution for the loss caused him or her by the offense.
   (C)   When a prosecuting witness abandons or agrees to abandon a prosecution
under division (B) of this section, the abandonment or agreement in no way
binds the state to abandoning the prosecution.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of compounding a crime, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.21)
§ 136.04 FAILURE TO REPORT A CRIME.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, no
person, knowing that a felony has been or is being committed, shall knowingly
fail to report the information to law enforcement authorities.
      (2)   No person, knowing that a violation of R.C. § 2913.04(B) has been
or is being committed or that the person has received information derived from
such a violation, shall knowingly fail to report the violation to law
enforcement authorities.
   (B)   Except for conditions that are within the scope of division (E) of
this section, no person giving aid to a sick or injured person shall
negligently fail to report to law enforcement authorities any gunshot or stab
wound treated or observed by the person, or any serious physical harm to
persons that the person knows or has reasonable cause to believe resulted from
an offense of violence.
   (C)   No person who discovers the body or acquires the first knowledge of
the death of a person shall fail to report the death immediately to a physician
or advanced practice registered nurse whom the person knows to be treating the
deceased for a condition from which death at such time would not be unexpected,
or to a law enforcement officer, an ambulance service, an emergency squad, or
the coroner in a political subdivision in which the body is discovered, the
death is believed to have occurred, or knowledge concerning the death is
obtained. For purposes of this division, “advanced practice registered nurse”
does not include a certified registered nurse anesthetist.
   (D)   No person shall fail to provide upon request of the person to whom a
report required by division (C) of this section was made, or to any law
enforcement officer who has reasonable cause to assert the authority to
investigate the circumstances surrounding the death, any facts within his or
her knowledge that may have a bearing on the investigation of the death.
   (E)   (1)   As used in this section, BURN INJURY means any of the following:
         (a)   Second or third degree burns;
         (b)   Any burns to the upper respiratory tract or laryngeal edema due
to the inhalation of super-heated air;
         (c)   Any burn injury or wound that may result in death.
      (2)   No physician, nurse, physician assistant, or limited practitioner
who, outside a hospital, sanitarium, or other medical facility, attends or
treats a person who has sustained a burn injury inflicted by an explosion or
other incendiary device, or that shows evidence of having been inflicted in a
violent, malicious, or criminal manner, shall fail to report the burn injury
immediately to the local arson bureau, if there is such a bureau in the
jurisdiction in which the person is attended or treated, or otherwise to local
law enforcement authorities.
      (3)   No manager, superintendent, or other person in charge of a
hospital, sanitarium, or other medical facility in which a person is attended
or treated for any burn injury inflicted by an explosion or other incendiary
device, or that shows evidence of having been inflicted in a violent,
malicious, or criminal manner, shall fail to report the burn injury immediately
to the local arson bureau, if there is such a bureau in the jurisdiction in
which the person is attended or treated, or otherwise to local law enforcement
authorities.
      (4)   No person who is required to report any burn injury under division
(E)(2) or (E)(3) of this section shall fail to file, within three working days
after attending or treating the victim, a written report of the burn injury
with the office of the State Fire Marshal. The report shall be made on a form
provided by the State Fire Marshal.
      (5)   Anyone participating in the making of reports under division (E) of
this section or anyone participating in a judicial proceeding resulting from
the reports is immune from any civil or criminal liability that otherwise might
be incurred or imposed as a result of such actions. Notwithstanding R.C. §
4731.22, the physician-patient relationship or advanced practice registered
nurse-patient relationship is not a ground for excluding evidence regarding a
person’s burn injury or the cause of the burn injury in any judicial proceeding
resulting from a report submitted under division (E) of this section.
   (F)   (1)   No person who knows that a licensed medical professional has
committed an offense under R.C. Chapter 2907, a violation of a municipal
ordinance that is substantially equivalent to such offense, or a substantially
equivalent criminal offense in another jurisdiction, against a patient of the
licensed medical professional shall fail to report such knowledge to law
enforcement authorities within 30 days of obtaining the knowledge.
      (2)   Except for a self-report or participation in the offense or
violation being reported, any person who makes a report within the 30-day
period provided in division (F)(1) of this section or any person who
participates in a judicial proceeding that results from such report is immune
from civil or criminal liability that otherwise might be incurred or imposed as
a result of making that report or participating in that proceeding so long as
the person is acting in good faith without fraud or malice.
      (3)   The physician-patient relationship or physician assistant-patient
relationship is not a ground for excluding evidence regarding the person’s
knowledge of a licensed medical professional’s commission of an offense or
violation reported under division (F)(1) of this section, against that licensed
medical professional in any judicial proceeding resulting from a report made
under that division.
      (4)   As used in division (F) of this section, LICENSED MEDICAL
PROFESSIONAL has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
   (G)   (1)   Any doctor of medicine or osteopathic medicine, hospital intern
or resident, nurse, psychologist, social worker, independent social worker,
social work assistant, licensed professional clinical counselor, licensed
professional counselor, independent marriage and family therapist, or marriage
and family therapist who knows or has reasonable cause to believe that a
patient or client has been the victim of domestic violence, as defined in R.C.
§ 3113.31, shall note that knowledge or belief and the basis for it in the
patient’s or client’s records.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 4731.22, the physician-patient privilege or
advanced practice registered nurse-patient privilege shall not be a ground for
excluding any information regarding the report containing the knowledge or
belief noted under division (G)(1) of this section, and the information may be
admitted as evidence in accordance with the Rules of Evidence.
   (H)   Division (A) or (D) of this section does not require disclosure of
information, when any of the following applies:
      (1)   The information is privileged by reason of the relationship between
attorney and client; physician and patient; advanced practice registered nurse
and patient; licensed psychologist or licensed school psychologist and client;
licensed professional clinical counselor, licensed professional counselor,
independent social worker, social worker, independent marriage and family
therapist, or marriage and family therapist and client; member of the clergy,
rabbi, minister, or priest and any person communicating information
confidentially to the member of the clergy, rabbi, minister, or priest for a
religious counseling purpose of a professional character; husband and wife; or
a communications assistant and those who are a party to a telecommunications
relay service call.
      (2)   The information would tend to incriminate a member of the actor's
immediate family.
      (3)   Disclosure of the information would amount to revealing a news
source, privileged under R.C. § 2739.04 or 2739.12.
      (4)   Disclosure of the information would amount to disclosure by a
member of the ordained clergy of an organized religious body of a confidential
communication made to that member of the clergy in that member's capacity as a
member of the clergy by a person seeking the aid or counsel of that member of
the clergy.
      (5)   Disclosure would amount to revealing information acquired by the
actor in the course of the actor's duties in connection with a bona fide
program of treatment or services for persons with drug dependencies or persons
in danger of drug dependence, which program is maintained or conducted by a
hospital, clinic, person, agency, or community addiction services provider
whose alcohol and drug addiction services are certified pursuant to R.C. §
5119.36.
      (6)   Disclosure would amount to revealing information acquired by the
actor in the course of the actor's duties in connection with a bona fide
program for providing counseling services to victims of crimes that are
violations of R.C. § 2907.02 or R.C. § 2907.05 or to victims of felonious
sexual penetration in violation of former R.C. § 2907.12. As used in this
division, "counseling services" include services provided in an informal
setting by a person who, by education or experience, is competent to provide
those services.
   (I)   No disclosure of information pursuant to this section gives rise to
any liability or recrimination for a breach of privilege or confidence.
   (J)   Whoever violates division (A), (B), or (F)(1) of this section is
guilty of failure to report a crime. Violation of division (A)(1) or (F)(1) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Violation of division (A)
(2) or (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (K)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty of
failure to report knowledge of a death, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (L)   (1)   Whoever negligently violates division (E) of this section is
guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Whoever knowingly violates division (E) of this section is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (M)   As used in this section, NURSE includes an advanced practice
registered nurse, registered nurse, and licensed practical nurse.
(R.C. § 2921.22)
§ 136.05 FAILURE TO AID A LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall negligently fail or refuse to aid a law enforcement
officer, when called upon for assistance in preventing or halting the
commission of an offense, or in apprehending or detaining an offender, when the
aid can be given without a substantial risk of physical harm to the person
giving it.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to aid a law
enforcement officer, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2921.23)
§ 136.06 OBSTRUCTING OFFICIAL BUSINESS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so and with purpose to prevent,
obstruct, or delay the performance by a public official of any authorized act
within the public official's official capacity, shall do any act that hampers
or impedes a public official in the performance of the public official's lawful
duties.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of obstructing official
business. Except as otherwise provided in this division, obstructing official
business is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If a violation of this section
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, obstructing official business is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.31)
§ 136.07 OBSTRUCTING JUSTICE.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to hinder the discovery, apprehension,
prosecution, conviction, or punishment of another for crime, or to assist
another to benefit from the commission of a crime, and no person, with purpose
to hinder the discovery, apprehension, prosecution, adjudication as a
delinquent child, or disposition of a child for an act that if committed by an
adult would be a crime or to assist a child to benefit from the commission of
an act that if committed by an adult would be a crime, shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Harbor or conceal the other person or child.
      (2)   Provide the other person or child with money, transportation, a
weapon, a disguise, or other means of avoiding discovery or apprehension.
      (3)   Warn the other person or child of impending discovery or
apprehension.
      (4)   Destroy or conceal physical evidence of the crime or act, or induce
any person to withhold testimony or information or to elude legal process
summoning him or her to testify or supply evidence.
      (5)   Communicate false information to any person.
      (6)   Prevent or obstruct any person, by means of force, intimidation, or
deception, from performing any act to aid in the discovery, apprehension, or
prosecution of the other person or child.
   (B)   A person may be prosecuted for, and may be convicted of or adjudicated
a delinquent child for committing, a violation of division (A) of this section
regardless of whether the person or child aided ultimately is apprehended for,
is charged with, is convicted of, pleads guilty to, or is adjudicated a
delinquent child for committing the crime or act the person or child aided
committed. The crime or act the person or child aided committed shall be used
under division (C) of this section in determining the penalty for violation of
division (A) of this section, regardless of whether the person or child aided
ultimately is apprehended for, is charge with, is convicted of, pleads guilty
to, or is adjudicated a delinquent child for committing the crime or act the
person or child aided committed.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of obstructing justice.
      (1)   If the crime committed by the person aided is a misdemeanor or if
the act committed by the child aided would be a misdemeanor if committed by an
adult, obstructing justice is a misdemeanor of the same degree as the crime
committed by the person aided or a misdemeanor of the same degree that the act
committed by the child aided would be if committed by an adult.
      (2)   If the crime committed by the person aided is a felony or if the
act committed by the child aided would be a felony if committed by an adult, or
if the crime or act committed by the person or child aided is an act of
terrorism, obstructing justice is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      ACT OF TERRORISM has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.21.
      ADULT and CHILD have the same meaning as in R.C. § 2151.011.
      DELINQUENT CHILD has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2152.02.
(R.C. § 2921.32)
§ 136.08 RESISTING ARREST.
   (A)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of himself, herself or another.
   (B)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of the person or another person and, during the course of or as a
result of the resistance or interference, cause physical harm to a law
enforcement officer.
   (C)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of the person or another person if either of the following
applies:
      (1)   The offender, during the course of or as a result of the resistance
or interference, recklessly causes physical harm to a law enforcement officer
by means of a deadly weapon; or
      (2)   The offender, during the course of the resistance or interference,
brandishes a deadly weapon.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of resisting arrest. A
violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (E)   As used in this section, DEADLY WEAPON has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2923.11.
(R.C. § 2921.33)
Statutory reference:
   Unlawful taking of deadly weapon from a law enforcement officer, felony
offense, see R.C. § 2911.01
§ 136.09 HAVING AN UNLAWFUL INTEREST IN A PUBLIC CONTRACT.
   (A)   No public official shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Authorize or employ the authority of the public official’s office
to secure authorization of any public contract in which the public official, a
member of the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s
business associates has an interest.
      (2)   Authorize or employ the authority or influence of the public
official’s office to secure the investment of public funds in any share, bond,
mortgage, or other security with respect to which the public official, a member
of the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s business
associates either has an interest, is an underwriter, or receives any
brokerage, origination, or servicing fees.
      (3)   During the public official’s term of office or within one year
thereafter, occupy any position of profit in the prosecution of a public
contract authorized by the public official or by a legislative body,
commission, or board of which the public official was a member at the time of
authorization, unless the contract was let by competitive bidding to the lowest
and best bidder.
      (4)   Have an interest in the profits or benefits of a public contract
entered into by or for the use of the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality with which the public official is connected.
      (5)   Have an interest in the profits or benefits of a public contract
that is not let by competitive bidding when required by law, and that involves
more than $150.
   (B)   In the absence of bribery or a purpose to defraud, a public official,
member of a public official’s family, or any of a public official’s business
associates shall not be considered as having an interest in a public contract
or the investment of public funds, if all of the following apply:
      (1)   The interest of that person is limited to owning or controlling
shares of the corporation, or being a creditor of the corporation or other
organization, that is the contractor on the public contract involved, or that
is the issuer of the security in which public funds are invested.
      (2)   The shares owned or controlled by that person do not exceed 5% of
the outstanding shares of the corporation, and the amount due that person as
creditor does not exceed 5% of the total indebtedness of the corporation or
other organization.
      (3)   That person, prior to the time the public contract is entered into,
files with the political subdivision or governmental agency or instrumentality
involved, an affidavit giving that person’s exact status in connection with the
corporation or other organization.
   (C)   This section does not apply to a public contract in which a public
official, member of a public official’s family, or one of a public official’s
business associates has an interest, when all of the following apply:
      (1)   The subject of the public contract is necessary supplies or
services for the political subdivision or governmental agency or
instrumentality involved.
      (2)   The supplies or services are unobtainable elsewhere for the same or
lower cost, or are being furnished to the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality as part of a continuing course of dealing established
prior to the public official's becoming associated with the political
subdivision or governmental agency or instrumentality involved.
      (3)   The treatment accorded the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality is either preferential to or the same as that
accorded other customers or clients in similar transactions.
      (4)   The entire transaction is conducted at arm’s length, with full
knowledge by the political subdivision or governmental agency or
instrumentality involved, of the interest of the public official, member of the
public official’s family, or business associate, and the public official takes
no part in the deliberations or decision of the political subdivision or
governmental agency or instrumentality with respect to the public contract.
   (D)   Division (A)(4) of this section does not prohibit participation by a
public employee in any housing program funded by public monies if the public
employee otherwise qualifies for the program and does not use the authority or
influence of the public employee’s office or employment to secure benefits from
the program and if the monies are to be used on the primary residence of the
public employee. Such participation does not constitute an unlawful interest in
a public contract in violation of this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of having an unlawful interest
in a public contract. Violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. Violation of division
(A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (F)   It is not a violation of this section for a prosecuting attorney to
appoint assistants and employees in accordance with R.C. §§ 309.06 and
2921.421, or for a chief legal officer of a municipality or an official
designated as prosecutor in a municipality to appoint assistants and employees
in accordance with R.C. §§ 733.621 and 2921.421, or for a township law director
appointed under R.C. § 504.15 to appoint assistants and employees in accordance
with R.C. §§ 504.151 and 2921.421.
   (G)   Any public contract in which a public official, a member of the public
official’s family, or any of the public official’s business associates has an
interest in violation of this section is void and unenforceable. Any contract
securing the investment of public funds in which a public official, a member of
the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s business
associates has an interest, is an underwriter, or receives any brokerage,
origination or servicing fees and that was entered into in violation of this
section is void and unenforceable.
   (H)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CHIEF LEGAL OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 733.621.
      PUBLIC CONTRACT. Any of the following:
         (a)   The purchase or acquisition, or a contract for the purchase or
acquisition, of property or services by or for the use of the state or any of
its political subdivisions, or any agency or instrumentality of either,
including the employment of an individual by the state, any of its political
subdivisions, or any agency or instrumentality of either.
         (b)   A contract for the design, construction, alteration, repair, or
maintenance of any public property.
(R.C. § 2921.42)
Statutory reference:
   Assistants and employees of Prosecutors, Law Directors, and Solicitors, see
R.C. § 2921.421
§ 136.10 SOLICITING OR RECEIVING IMPROPER COMPENSATION.
   (A)   No public servant shall knowingly solicit or accept and no person
shall knowingly promise or give to a public servant either of the following:
      (1)   Any compensation, other than as allowed by R.C. § 102.03(G), (H),
(I), or other provisions of law, to perform the public servant's official
duties, to perform any other act or service in the public servant's public
capacity, for the general performance of the duties of the public servant's
public office or public employment, or as a supplement to the public servant's
public compensation.
      (2)   Additional or greater fees or costs than are allowed by law to
perform the public servant's official duties.
   (B)   No public servant for the public servant's own personal or business
use and no person for the person's own personal or business use or for the
personal or business use of a public servant or party official, shall solicit
or accept anything of value in consideration of either of the following:
      (1)   Appointing or securing, maintaining, or renewing the appointment of
any person to any public office, employment, or agency.
      (2)   Preferring, or maintaining the status of, any public employee with
respect to compensation, duties, placement, location, promotion, or other
material aspects of employment.
   (C)   No person for the benefit of a political party, campaign committee,
legislative campaign fund, political action committee or political contributing
entity shall coerce any contribution in consideration of either of the
following:
      (1)   Appointing or securing, maintaining, or renewing the appointment of
any person to any public office, employment, or agency.
      (2)   Preferring, or maintaining the status of, any public employee with
respect to compensation, duties, placement, location, promotion, or other
material aspects of employment.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of soliciting improper
compensation, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (E)   A public servant who is convicted of a violation of this section is
disqualified from holding any public office, employment, or position of trust
in this state for a period of seven years from the date of conviction.
   (F)   Divisions (A), (B), and (C) of this section do not prohibit any person
from making voluntary contributions to a political party, campaign committee,
legislative campaign fund, political action committee or political contributing
entity or prohibit a political party, campaign committee, legislative campaign
fund, political action committee or political contributing entity from
accepting voluntary contributions.
(R.C. § 2921.43)
§ 136.11 DERELICTION OF DUTY.
   (A)   No law enforcement officer shall negligently do any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to serve a lawful warrant without delay.
      (2)   Fail to prevent or halt the commission of an offense or to
apprehend an offender, when it is in the law enforcement officer’s power to do
so alone or with available assistance.
   (B)   No law enforcement, ministerial, or judicial officer shall negligently
fail to perform a lawful duty in a criminal case or proceeding.
   (C)   No officer, having charge of a detention facility, shall negligently
do any of the following:
      (1)   Allow the detention facility to become littered or unsanitary.
      (2)   Fail to provide persons confined in the detention facility with
adequate food, clothing, bedding, shelter, and medical attention.
      (3)   Fail to control an unruly prisoner, or to prevent intimidation of
or physical harm to a prisoner by another.
      (4)   Allow a prisoner to escape.
      (5)   Fail to observe any lawful and reasonable regulation for the
management of the detention facility.
   (D)   No public official shall recklessly create a deficiency, incur a
liability, or expend a greater sum than is appropriated by the Council for the
use in any one year of the department, agency, or institution with which the
public official is connected.
   (E)   No public servant shall recklessly fail to perform a duty expressly
imposed by law with respect to the public servant’s office, or recklessly do
any act expressly forbidden by law with respect to the public servant’s office.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of dereliction of duty, a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (G)   Except as otherwise provided by law, a public servant who is a county
treasurer; county auditor; township fiscal officer; city auditor; city
treasurer; village fiscal officer; village clerk-treasurer; village clerk; in
the case of a municipal corporation having a charter that designates an officer
who, by virtue of the charter, has duties and functions similar to those of the
city or village officers referred to in this section, the officer so designated
by the charter; school district treasurer; fiscal officer of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314; treasurer of a science, technology,
engineering, and mathematics school established under R.C. Chapter 3326; or
fiscal officer of a college-preparatory boarding school established under R.C.
Chapter 3328 and is convicted of or pleads guilty to dereliction of duty is
disqualified from holding any public office, employment, or position of trust
in this state for four years following the date of conviction or of entry of
the plea, and is not entitled to hold any public office until any repayment or
restitution required by the court is satisfied.
   (H)   As used in this section, PUBLIC SERVANT includes the following:
      (1)   An officer or employee of a contractor as defined in R.C. § 9.08;
      (2)   A fiscal officer employed by the operator of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314 or by the operator of a college-preparatory
boarding school established under R.C. Chapter 3328.
(R.C. § 2921.44)
§ 136.12 INTERFERING WITH CIVIL RIGHTS.
   (A)   No public servant, under color of the public servant’s office,
employment, or authority, shall knowingly deprive, or conspire or attempt to
deprive any person of a constitutional or statutory right.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interfering with civil
rights, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.45)
Statutory reference:
   Restraining or confining pregnant children or pregnant women, see R.C. §
2152.75(B) and R.C. § 2901.10
§ 136.13 ILLEGAL CONVEYANCE OF PROHIBITED ITEMS ONTO GROUNDS OF A DETENTION
FACILITY OR OTHER SPECIFIED GOVERNMENTAL FACILITY.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly convey, or attempt to convey, onto the
grounds of a detention facility or of an institution, office building, or other
place that is under the control of the Department of Mental Health and
Addiction Services, the Department of Developmental Disabilities, the
Department of Youth Services, or the Department of Rehabilitation and
Correction, any of the following items:
      (1)   Any deadly weapon or dangerous ordnance, as defined in R.C. §
2923.11, or any part of or ammunition for use in such deadly weapon or
dangerous ordnance.
      (2)   Any drug of abuse, as defined in R.C. § 3719.011.
      (3)   Any intoxicating liquor, as defined in R.C. § 4301.01, except for
small amounts of wine for sacramental purposes when the person engaging in the
specified conduct is a cleric, as defined in R.C. § 2317.02.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any person who conveys
or attempts to convey an item onto the grounds of a detention facility or of an
institution, office building, or other place under the control of the
Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services, the Department of
Developmental Disabilities, the Department of Youth Services, or the Department
of Rehabilitation and Correction, with written authorization of the person in
charge of the detention facility or the institution, office building, or other
place and in accordance with the written rules of the detention facility or the
institution, office building, or other place.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly deliver, or attempt to deliver, to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, to a prisoner who is temporarily released from confinement
for a work assignment, or to any patient in an institution under the control of
the Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services or the Department of
Developmental Disabilities, any item listed in division (A).
   (D)   No person shall knowingly deliver or attempt to deliver cash to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, or to a prisoner who is temporarily released from
confinement for a work assignment.
   (E)   No person shall knowingly deliver, or attempt to deliver, to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, or to a prisoner who is temporarily released from
confinement for a work assignment a cellular telephone, two-way radio, or other
electronic communications device.
   (F)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(1)
of this section that the weapon or dangerous ordnance in question was being
transported in a motor vehicle for any lawful purpose, that it was not on the
actor’s person, and if the weapon or dangerous ordnance was a firearm, that it
was unloaded and was being carried in a closed package, box or case or in a
compartment that can be reached only by leaving the vehicle.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (C) of this
section that the actor was not otherwise prohibited by law from delivering the
item to the confined person, the child, the prisoner, or the patient and that
either of the following applies:
         (a)   The actor was permitted by the written rules of the detention
facility or the institution, office building, or other place to deliver the
item to the confined person or the patient.
         (b)   The actor was given written authorization by the person in
charge of the detention facility or the institution, office building, or other
place to deliver the item to the confined person or the patient.
   (G)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section or commits a
violation of division (C) of this section involving any item listed in division
(A)(1) of this section is guilty of illegal conveyance of weapons onto the
grounds of a specified governmental facility, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section or commits a
violation of division (C) of this section involving any drug of abuse is guilty
of illegal conveyance of drugs of abuse onto the grounds of a specified
governmental facility, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(3) of this section or commits a
violation of division (C) of this section involving any intoxicating liquor is
guilty of illegal conveyance of intoxicating liquor onto the grounds of a
specified governmental facility, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of illegal
conveyance of cash onto the grounds of a detention facility, a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (D) of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, illegal conveyance of cash onto
the grounds of a detention facility is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of illegal
conveyance of a communications device onto the grounds of a specified
governmental facility, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E)
of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
illegal conveyance of a communications device onto the grounds of a detention
facility is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.36)
   (H)   The person in charge of a detention facility shall, on the grounds of
the detention facility, have the same power as a peace officer, as defined in
R.C. § 2935.01, to arrest a person who violates this section.
(R.C. § 2921.37)
Cross-reference:
   Possession of an object indistinguishable from a firearm in a school safety
zone, see §
137.11
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, see §
137.12
Statutory reference:
   Conveyance or possession of deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance on school
premises, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.122
   Conveyance, possession, or control of deadly weapon or dangerous ordinance
in a courthouse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.123
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, felony offense, see R.C.
§ 2923.131
§ 136.14 FALSE REPORT OF CHILD ABUSE OR NEGLECT.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make or cause another person to make a false
report under R.C. § 2151.421(B) alleging that any person has committed an act
or omission that resulted in a child being an abused child as defined in R.C. §
2151.031 or a neglected child as defined in R.C. § 2151.03.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making or causing a false
report of child abuse or child neglect, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.14)
§ 136.15 ASSAULTING POLICE DOG OR HORSE, OR ASSISTANCE DOG.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cause, or attempt to cause, physical harm to
a police dog or horse in either of the following circumstances:
      (1)   The police dog or horse is assisting a law enforcement officer in
the performance of the officer's official duties at the time the physical harm
is caused or attempted.
      (2)   The police dog or horse is not assisting a law enforcement officer
in the performance of the officer's official duties at the time the physical
harm is caused or attempted, but the offender has actual knowledge that the dog
or horse is a police dog or horse.
   (B)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following:
      (1)   Taunt, torment, or strike a police dog or horse;
      (2)   Throw an object or substance at a police dog or horse;
      (3)   Interfere with or obstruct a police dog or horse, or interfere with
or obstruct a law enforcement officer who is being assisted by a police dog or
horse, in a manner that does any of the following:
         (a)   Inhibits or restricts the law enforcement officer’s control of
the police dog or horse;
         (b)   Deprives the law enforcement officer of control of the police
dog or horse;
         (c)   Releases the police dog or horse from its area of control;
         (d)   Enters the area of control of the police dog or horse without
the consent of the law enforcement officer, including placing food or any other
object or substance into that area;
         (e)   Inhibits or restricts the ability of the police dog or horse to
assist a law enforcement officer;
      (4)   Engage in any conduct that is likely to cause serious physical
injury or death to a police dog or horse;
      (5)   If the person is the owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog, fail to
reasonably restrain the dog from taunting, tormenting, chasing, approaching in
a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack, or attempting to bite or
otherwise endanger a police dog or horse that at the time of the conduct, the
police dog or horse is assisting a law enforcement officer in the performance
of the officer's duties or that the person knows is a police dog or horse.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly cause, or attempt to cause, physical harm to
an assistance dog in either of the following circumstances:
      (1)   The dog, at the time the physical harm is caused or attempted, is
assisting or serving a person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired or a
person with a mobility impairment.
      (2)   The dog, at the time the physical harm is caused or attempted, is
not assisting or serving a person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired or a
person with a mobility impairment, but the offender has actual knowledge that
the dog is an assistance dog.
   (D)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following:
      (1)   Taunt, torment, or strike an assistance dog;
      (2)   Throw an object or substance at an assistance dog;
      (3)   Interfere with or obstruct an assistance dog, or interfere with or
obstruct a person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired or a person with a
mobility impairment who is being assisted or served by an assistance dog, in a
manner that does any of the following:
         (a)   Inhibits or restricts the assisted or served person’s control of
the dog;
         (b)   Deprives the assisted or served person of control of the dog;
         (c)   Releases the dog from its area of control;
         (d)   Enters the area of control of the service dog without the
consent of the assisted or person, including placing food or any other object
or substance into that area;
         (e)   Inhibits or restricts the ability of the dog to assist the
assisted or served person;
      (4)   Engage in any conduct that is likely to cause serious physical
injury or death to an assistance dog;
      (5)   If the person is the owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog, fail to
reasonably restrain the dog from taunting, tormenting, chasing, approaching in
a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack, or attempting to bite or
otherwise endanger an assistance dog that at the time of the conduct is
assisting or serving a person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired or a
person with a mobility impairment or that the person knows is an assistance
dog.
         (a)   Inhibits or restricts the assisted or served person’s control of
the dog;
         (b)   Deprives the assisted or served person of control of the dog;
         (c)   Releases the dog from its area of control;
         (d)   Enters the area of control of the service dog without the
consent of the assisted or person, including placing food or any other object
or substance into that area;
         (e)   Inhibits or restricts the ability of the dog to assist the
assisted or served person;
      (4)   Engage in any conduct that is likely to cause serious physical
injury or death to an assistance dog;
      (5)   If the person is the owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog, fail to
reasonably restrain the dog from taunting, tormenting, chasing, approaching in
a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack, or attempting to bite or
otherwise endanger an assistance dog that at the time of the conduct is
assisting or serving a blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility impaired
person or that the person knows is an assistance dog.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
assaulting a police dog or horse. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, assaulting a police dog or horse is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. If the violation results in physical harm to the police dog or horse
other than death or serious physical harm, assaulting a police dog or horse is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in serious physical
harm to the police dog or horse or results in its death, assaulting a police
dog or horse is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
harassing a police dog or horse. Except as otherwise provided this division,
harassing a police dog or horse is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the police dog or horse but does not
result in its death or in serious physical harm to it, harassing a police dog
or horse is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in
serous physical harm to the police dog or horse or results in its death,
harassing a police dog or horse is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of
assaulting an assistance dog. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
assaulting an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the dog other than death or serious
physical harm, assaulting an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the violation results in serious physical harm to the dog or results
in its death, assaulting an assistance dog is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of
harassing an assistance dog. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
harassing an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the assistance dog but does not result in
the death or in serious physical harm to it, harassing an assistance dog is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in serious physical
harm to the assistance dog or results in its death, harassing an assistance dog
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   In addition to any other sanctions or penalty imposed for the
offense under this section, R.C. Chapter 2929 or any other provision of the
Revised Code or this code, whoever violates division (A), (B), (C), or (D) of
this section is responsible for the payment of all of the following:
         (a)   Any veterinary bill or bill for medication incurred as a result
of the violation by the police department regarding a violation of division (A)
or (B) of this section or by the person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired
or the person with a mobility impairment assisted or served by the assistance
dog regarding a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section;
         (b)   The cost of any damaged equipment that results from the
violation;
         (c)   If the violation did not result in the death of the police dog
or horse or the assistance dog that was the subject of the violation and if, as
a result of that dog or horse being the subject of the violation, the dog or
horse needs further training or retraining to be able to continue in the
capacity of a police dog or horse or an assistance dog, the cost of any further
training or retraining of that dog or horse by a law enforcement officer or by
the person who is blind, deaf, or hearing impaired or the person with a
mobility impairment assisted or served by the assistance dog;
         (d)   If the violation resulted in the death of the assistance dog
that was the subject of the violation or resulted in serious physical harm to
the police dog or horse or the assistance dog or horse that was the subject of
the violation to the extent that the dog or horse needs to be replaced on
either a temporary or a permanent basis, the cost of replacing that dog or
horse and of any further training of a new police dog or horse or a new
assistance dog by a law enforcement officer or by the person who is blind,
deaf, or hearing impaired or the person with a mobility impairment assisted or
served by the assistance dog, which replacement or training is required because
of the death of or the serious physical harm to the dog or horse that was the
subject of the violation.
   (F)   This section does not apply to a licensed veterinarian whose conduct
is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4741.
   (G)   This section only applies to an offender who knows or should know at
the time of the violation that the police dog or horse or assistance dog that
is the subject of a violation under this section is a police dog or horse or
assistance dog.
   (H)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ASSISTANCE DOG and BLIND. Have the same meaning as in R.C. § 955.011.
      PERSON WITH A MOBILITY IMPAIRMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
955.011.
      PHYSICAL HARM. Any injury, illness, or other psychological impairment,
regardless of its gravity or duration.
      POLICE DOG OR HORSE. A dog or horse that has been trained and may be used
to assist law enforcement officers in the performance of their official duties.
      SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM. Any of the following:
         (a)   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death.
         (b)   Any physical harm that causes permanent maiming or that involves
some temporary, substantial maiming.
         (c)   Any physical harm that causes acute pain of a duration that
results in substantial suffering.
(R.C. § 2921.321)
§ 136.16 DISCLOSURE OF CONFIDENTIAL PEACE OFFICER INFORMATION.
   (A)   No officer or employee of a law enforcement agency or court, or of the
clerk’s office of any court, shall disclose during the pendency of any criminal
case the home address of any peace officer, parole officer, prosecuting
attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee, or youth
services employee who is a witness or arresting officer in the case.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not prohibit a peace officer, parole
officer, prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional
employee, or youth services employee from disclosing the peace officer’s,
parole officer’s, prosecuting attorney’s, assistant prosecuting attorney’s,
correctional employee’s, or youth services employee’s own home address, and
does not apply to any person who discloses the home address of a peace officer,
parole officer, prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney,
correctional employee, or youth services employee pursuant to a court-ordered
disclosure under division (C) of this section.
   (C)   The court in which any criminal case is pending may order the
disclosure of the home address of any peace officer, parole officer,
prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee, or
youth services employee who is a witness or arresting officer in the case, if
the court determines after a written request for the disclosure that good cause
exists for disclosing the home address of the peace officer, parole officer,
prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee, or
youth services employee.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of disclosure
of confidential information, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2921.24)
   (E)   No judge of a court of record, or Mayor presiding over a Mayor’s
Court, shall order a peace officer parole officer, prosecuting attorney,
assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee, or youth services
employee who is a witness in a criminal case, to disclose the peace officer’s,
parole officer’s, prosecuting attorney’s, assistant prosecuting attorney’s,
correctional employee’s, or youth services employee’s home address during the
peace officer’s, parole officer’s, prosecuting attorney’s, assistant
prosecuting attorney’s, correctional employee’s, or youth services employee’s
examination in the case unless the judge or Mayor determines that the defendant
has a right to the disclosure.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      PEACE OFFICER has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
      CORRECTIONAL EMPLOYEE and YOUTH SERVICES EMPLOYEE have the same meanings
as in R.C. § 149.43.
(R.C. § 2921.25)
§ 136.17 INTIMIDATION OF CRIME VICTIM OR WITNESS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly attempt to intimidate or hinder the victim
of a crime or delinquent act in the filing or prosecution of criminal charges
or a delinquent child action or proceeding, and no person shall knowingly
attempt to intimidate a witness to a criminal or delinquent act by reason of
the person being a witness to that act.
   (B)   No person, knowingly and by force or by unlawful threat of harm to any
person or property or by unlawful threat to commit any offense or calumny
against any person, shall attempt to influence, intimidate, or hinder any of
the following persons:
      (1)   The victim of a crime or delinquent act in the filing or
prosecution of criminal charges or a delinquent child action or proceeding;
      (2)   A witness to a criminal or delinquent act by reason of the person
being a witness to that act;
      (3)   An attorney by reason of the attorney’s involvement in any criminal
or delinquent child action or proceeding.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any person who is
attempting to resolve a dispute pertaining to the alleged commission of a
criminal offense, either prior to or subsequent to the filing of a complaint,
indictment, or information by participating in the arbitration, mediation,
compromise, settlement or conciliation of that dispute pursuant to an
authorization for arbitration, mediation, compromise, settlement, or
conciliation of a dispute of that nature that is conferred by any of the
following:
      (1)   A section of the Revised Code.
      (2)   The Rules of Criminal Procedure, the Rules of Superintendence for
Municipal Courts and County Courts, the Rules of Superintendence for Courts of
Common Pleas, or another rule adopted by the Ohio Supreme Court in accordance
with Ohio Constitution, Article IV, Section 5.
      (3)   A local rule of court, including but not limited to a local rule of
court that relates to alternative dispute resolution or other case management
programs and that authorizes the referral of disputes pertaining to the alleged
commission of certain types of criminal offenses to appropriate and available
arbitration, mediation, compromise, settlement or other conciliation programs.
      (4)   The order of a judge of a municipal court, county court, or court
of common pleas.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of intimidation of an
attorney, victim or witness in a criminal case. A violation of division (A) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. A violation of division (B)
of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (E)   As used in this section, WITNESS means any person who has or claims to
have knowledge concerning a fact or facts concerning a criminal or delinquent
act, whether or not criminal or delinquent child charges are actually filed.
(R.C. § 2921.04)
Statutory reference:
   Retaliation, felony offense, see R.C. § 2921.05
§ 136.18 USING SHAM LEGAL PROCESS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply:
      LAWFULLY ISSUED. Adopted, issued, or rendered in accordance with the
United States Constitution, the Constitution of a state, and the applicable
statutes, rules, regulations and ordinances of the United States, a state, and
the political subdivisions of a state.
      POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS. Municipal corporations, townships, counties,
school districts, and all other bodies corporate and politic that are organized
under state law and are responsible for governmental activities only in
geographical areas smaller than that of a state.
      SHAM LEGAL PROCESS. An instrument that meets all of the following
conditions:
         (a)   It is not lawfully issued.
         (b)   It purports to do any of the following:
            1.   To be a summons, subpoena, judgment, or order of a court, a
law enforcement officer, or a legislative, executive or administrative body.
            2.   To assert jurisdiction over or determine the legal or
equitable status, rights, duties, powers, or privileges of any person or
property.
            3.   To require or authorize the search, seizure, indictment,
arrest, trial, or sentencing of any person or property.
         (c)   It is designed to make another person believe that it is
lawfully issued.
      STATE. A state of the United States, including without limitation the
state legislature, the highest court of the state that has statewide
jurisdiction, the offices of all elected state officers, and all departments,
boards, offices, commissions, agencies, institutions, and other
instrumentalities of the state. STATE does not include the political
subdivisions of the state.
   (B)   No person shall, knowing the sham legal process to be a sham legal
process, do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly issue, display, deliver, distribute, or otherwise use
sham legal process.
      (2)   Knowingly use sham legal process to arrest, detain, search or seize
any person or the property of another person.
      (3)   Knowingly commit or facilitate the commission of an offense using
sham legal process.
      (4)   Knowingly commit a felony by using sham legal process.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B)(1) or (B)
(2) of this section that the use of sham legal process was for a lawful
purpose.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of using sham legal process. A
violation of division (B)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. A violation of division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree, except that if the purpose of a violation of
division (B)(3) of this section is to commit or facilitate the commission of a
felony, a violation of division (B)(3) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of division (B)(4) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.52(A) - (D))
Statutory reference:
   Civil liability, see R.C. § 2921.52(E)
§ 136.19 MAKING FALSE ALLEGATION OF PEACE OFFICER MISCONDUCT.
   (A)   As used in this section, PEACE OFFICER has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2935.01.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly file a complaint against a peace officer
that alleges that the peace officer engaged in misconduct in the performance of
the officer’s duties if the person knows that the allegation is false.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of making a
false allegation of peace officer misconduct, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 2921.15)
§ 136.20 MISUSE OF 9-1-1 SYSTEM.
   (A)   As used in this section, 9-1-1 SYSTEM means a system through which
individuals can request emergency service using the access number 9-1-1.
(R.C. § 128.01(A))
   (B)   No person shall knowingly use the telephone number of a 9-1-1 system
established under R.C. Chapter 128 to report an emergency if the person knows
that no emergency exists.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly use a 9-1-1 system for a purpose other than
obtaining emergency service.
   (D)   No person shall disclose or use any information concerning telephone
numbers, addresses, or names obtained from the database that serves the public
safety answering point of a 9-1-1 system established under R.C. Chapter 128,
except for any of the following purposes or under any of the following
circumstances:
      (1)   For the purpose of the 9-1-1 system;
      (2)   For the purpose of responding to an emergency call to an emergency
service provider;
      (3)   In the circumstance of the inadvertent disclosure of such
information due solely to technology of the wireless telephone network portion
of the 9-1-1 system not allowing access to the database to be restricted to 9-
1-1 specific answering lines at a public safety answering point;
      (4)   In the circumstance of access to a database being given by a
telephone company that is a wireless service provider to a public utility or
municipal utility in handling customer calls in times of public emergency or
service outages. The charge, terms, and conditions for the disclosure or use of
such information for the purpose of such access to a database shall be subject
to the jurisdiction of the Steering Committee;
      (5)   In the circumstance of access to a database given by a telephone
company that is a wireline service provider to a state and local government in
warning of a public emergency, as determined by the Steering Committee. The
charge, terms and conditions for the disclosure or use of that information for
the purpose of access to a database is subject to the jurisdiction of the
Steering Committee.
(R.C. § 128.96(F) - (H))
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 128.99(A), (B))
§ 136.21 FAILURE TO DISCLOSE PERSONAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   No person who is in a public place shall refuse to disclose the
person’s name, address, or date of birth, when requested by a law enforcement
officer who reasonably suspects either of the following:
      (1)   The person is committing, has committed, or is about to commit a
criminal offense.
      (2)   The person witnessed any of the following:
         (a)   An offense of violence that would constitute a felony under the
laws of this state;
         (b)   A felony offense that causes or results in, or creates a
substantial risk of, serious physical harm to another person or property;
         (c)   Any attempt or conspiracy to commit, or complicity in
committing, any offenses identified in division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) of this
section;
         (d)   Any conduct reasonably indicating that any offense identified in
division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) of this section or any attempt, conspiracy, or
complicity described in division (A)(2)(c) of this section has been, is being,
or is about to be committed.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of failure to
disclose one’s personal information, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (C)   Nothing in division (A) of this section requires a person to answer
any questions beyond that person’s name, address, or date of birth. Nothing in
division (A) of this section authorizes a law enforcement officer to arrest a
person for not providing any information beyond the person’s name, address, or
date of birth or for refusing to describe the offense observed.
   (D)   It is not a violation of division (A) of this section to refuse to
answer a question that would reveal a person’s age or date of birth if age is
an element of the crime that the person is suspected of committing.
(R.C. § 2921.29)
   (E)   No person entering an airport, train station, port, or other similar
critical transportation infrastructure site shall refuse to show identification
when requested by a law enforcement officer when there is a threat to security
and the law enforcement officer is requiring identification of all persons
entering the site.
   (F)   A law enforcement officer may prevent any person who refuses to show
identification when asked under the circumstances described in division (E) of
this section from entering the critical transportation infrastructure site.
(R.C. § 2909.31)
CHAPTER 137: WEAPONS CONTROL
Section
   
137.01   Definitions
   
137.02   Carrying concealed weapons
   
137.03   Using weapons while intoxicated
   
137.04   Improperly handling firearms in a motor vehicle
   
137.05   Possessing criminal tools
   
137.06   Failure to secure dangerous ordnance
   
137.07   Unlawful transactions in weapons
   
137.08   Underage purchase of firearm or handgun
   
137.09   Pointing and discharging firearms and other weapons
   
137.10   License or permit to possess dangerous ordnance
   
137.11   Possession of an object indistinguishable from a firearm in a school
safety zone
   
137.12   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention
   
137.13   Concealed handgun licenses: possession of a revoked or suspended
license; additional restrictions; posting of signs prohibiting possession
   
137.14   Defaced firearms
Cross-reference:
   Conveyance into certain facilities, see §
136.13
   Injury to persons by hunters, see §
135.05
   Injury to property by hunters, see §
131.24
   Using weapons to endanger or damage aircraft or airport operations, see §
131.05
§ 137.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTIVE DUTY. Has the same meaning as defined in 10 U.S.C. § 101.
   ALIEN REGISTRATION NUMBER. The number issued by the United States
Citizenship and Immigration Services Agency that is located on the alien’s
permanent resident card and may also be commonly referred to as the “USCIS
number” or the “alien number”.
   AUTOMATIC FIREARM. Any firearm designed or specially adapted to fire a
succession of cartridges with a single function of the trigger.
   BALLISTIC KNIFE. A knife with a detachable blade that is propelled by a
spring-operated mechanism.
   CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSE or LICENSE TO CARRY A CONCEALED HANDGUN.
      (1)   Means, subject to division (2) of this definition, a license or
temporary emergency license to carry a concealed handgun issued under R.C. §
2923.125 or R.C. § 2923.1213 or a license to carry a concealed handgun issued
by another state with which the Attorney General has entered into a reciprocity
agreement under R.C. § 109.69.
      (2)   A reference in any provision of this Code to a concealed handgun
license issued under R.C. § 2923.125 or a license to carry a concealed handgun
issued under R.C. § 2923.125 means only a license of the type that is specified
in that section. A reference in any provision of this Code to a concealed
handgun license issued under R.C. § 2923.1213, a license to carry a concealed
handgun issued under R.C. § 2923.1213, or a license to carry a concealed
handgun on a temporary emergency basis means only a license of the type that is
specified in R.C. § 2923.1213. A reference in any provision of this Code to a
concealed handgun license issued by another state or a license to carry a
concealed handgun issued by another state means only a license issued by
another state with which the Attorney General has entered into a reciprocity
agreement under R.C. § 109.69.
   DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
      (1)   Any of the following, except as provided in division (2) of this
definition:
         (a)   Any automatic or sawed-off firearm, zip-gun, or ballistic knife.
         (b)   Any explosive device or incendiary device.
         (c)   Nitroglycerin, nitrocellulose, nitrostarch, PETN, cyclonite,
TNT, picric acid, and other high explosives; amatol, tritonal, tetrytol,
pentolite, pecretol, cyclotol, and other high explosive compositions; plastic
explosives; dynamite, blasting gelatin, gelatin dynamite, sensitized ammonium
nitrate, liquid-oxygen blasting explosives, blasting powder, and other blasting
agents; and any other explosive substance having sufficient brisance or power
to be particularly suitable for use as a military explosive, or for use in
mining, quarrying, excavating, or demolitions.
         (d)   Any firearm, rocket launcher, mortar, artillery piece, grenade,
mine, bomb, torpedo, or similar weapon, designed and manufactured for military
purposes, and the ammunition for that weapon.
         (e)   Any firearm muffler or suppressor.
         (f)   Any combination of parts that is intended by the owner for use
in converting any firearm or other device into a dangerous ordnance.
      (2)   DANGEROUS ORDNANCE does not include any of the following:
         (a)   Any firearm, including a military weapon and the ammunition for
that weapon, and regardless of its actual age, that employs a percussion cap or
other obsolete ignition system, or that is designed and safe for use only with
black powder.
         (b)   Any pistol, rifle, or shotgun, designed or suitable for sporting
purposes, including a military weapon as issued or as modified, and the
ammunition for that weapon, unless the firearm is an automatic or sawed-off
firearm.
         (c)   Any cannon or other artillery piece that, regardless of its
actual age, is of a type in accepted use prior to 1887, has no mechanical,
hydraulic, pneumatic, or other system for absorbing recoil and returning the
tube into battery without displacing the carriage, and is designed and safe for
use only with black powder.
         (d)   Black powder, priming quills, and percussion caps possessed and
lawfully used to fire a cannon of a type defined in division (2)(c) of this
definition during displays, celebrations, organized matches or shoots, and
target practice, and smokeless and black powder, primers, and percussion caps
possessed and lawfully used as a propellant or ignition device in small-arms or
small-arms ammunition.
         (e)   Dangerous ordnance that is inoperable or inert and cannot
readily be rendered operable or activated, and that is kept as a trophy,
souvenir, curio, or museum piece.
         (f)   Any device that is expressly excepted from the definition of a
destructive device pursuant to the Gun Control Act of 1968, 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)
(4), as amended, and regulations issued under that act.
         (g)   Any firearm with an overall length of at least 26 inches that is
approved for sale by the Federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and
Explosives under the “Gun Control Act of 1968”, 82 Stat. 1213, 18 U.S.C. § 921
(a)(3), but that is found by the Bureau not to be regulated under the “National
Firearms Act”, 68A Stat. 725 (1934), 26 U.S.C. § 5845(a).
   DEADLY WEAPON. Any instrument, device, or thing capable of inflicting death,
and designed or specially adapted for use as a weapon, or possessed, carried,
or used as a weapon.
   EXPLOSIVE. Any chemical compound, mixture, or device, the primary or common
purpose of which is to function by explosion. The term includes all materials
that have been classified as division 1.1, division 1.2, division 1.3, or
division 1.4 explosives by the United States Department of Transportation in
its regulations and includes but is not limited to dynamite, black powder,
pellet powders, initiating explosives, blasting caps, electric blasting caps,
safety fuses, fuse igniters, squibs, cordeau detonant fuses, instantaneous
fuses, and igniter cords and igniters. The term does not include “fireworks,”
as defined in R.C. § 3743.01, or any substance or material otherwise meeting
the definition of explosive set forth in this section that is manufactured,
sold, possessed, transported, stored, or used in any activity described in R.C.
§ 3743.80, provided the activity is conducted in accordance with all applicable
laws, rules, and regulations, including but not limited to the provisions of
R.C. § 3743.80 and the rules of the Fire Marshal adopted pursuant to R.C. §
3737.82.
   EXPLOSIVE DEVICE. Any device designed or specially adapted to cause physical
harm to persons or property by means of an explosion, and consisting of an
explosive substance or agency and a means to detonate it. EXPLOSIVE DEVICE
includes without limitation any bomb, any explosive demolition  device, any
blasting cap or detonator containing an explosive charge, and any pressure
vessel that has been knowingly tampered with or arranged so as to explode.
   FIREARM.
      (1)   Any deadly weapon capable of expelling or propelling one or more
projectiles by the action of an explosive or combustible propellant. FIREARM
includes an unloaded firearm, and any firearm that is inoperable but that can
readily be rendered operable.
      (2)   When determining whether a firearm is capable of expelling or
propelling one or more projectiles by the action of an explosive or combustible
propellant, the trier of fact may rely upon circumstantial evidence, including,
but not limited to, the representations and actions of the individual
exercising control over the firearm.
   HANDGUN. Means any of the following:
      (1)   Any firearm that has a short stock and is designed to be held and
fired by the use of a single hand;
      (2)   Any combination of parts from which a firearm of a type described
in division (1) of this definition can be assembled.
   INCENDIARY DEVICE. Any firebomb, and any device designed or specially
adapted to cause physical harm to persons or property by means of fire, and
consisting of an incendiary substance or agent and a means to ignite it.
   MISDEMEANOR PUNISHABLE BY IMPRISONMENT FOR A TERM EXCEEDING ONE YEAR. The
phrase does not include any of the following:
      (1)   Any federal or state offense pertaining to antitrust violations,
unfair trade practices, restraints of trade, or other similar offenses relating
to the regulation of business practices;
      (2)   Any misdemeanor offense punishable by a term of imprisonment of two
years or less.
   SAWED-OFF FIREARM. A shotgun with a barrel less than 18 inches long, or a
rifle with a barrel less than 16 inches long, or a shotgun or rifle less than
26 inches long overall. SAWED-OFF FIREARM does not include any firearm with an
overall length of at least 26 inches that is approved for sale by the Federal
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives under the “Gun Control Act
of 1968”, 82 Stat. 1213, 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)(3), but that is found by the Bureau
not to be regulated under the “National Firearms Act”, 68A Stat. 725 (1934), 26
U.S.C. § 5845(a).
   SEMI-AUTOMATIC FIREARM. Any firearm designed or specially adapted to fire a
single cartridge and automatically chamber a succeeding cartridge ready to
fire, with a single function of the trigger.
   VALID CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSE or VALID LICENSE TO CARRY A CONCEALED
HANDGUN. A concealed handgun license that is currently valid, that is not under
a suspension under R.C. § 2923.128(A)(1), under R.C. § 2923.1213, or under a
suspension provision of the state other than  this state in which the license
was issued, and that has not been revoked under R.C. § 2923.128(B)(1), under
R.C. § 2923.1213, or under a revocation provision of the state other than this
state in which the license was issued.
   ZIP-GUN. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any firearm of crude and extemporized manufacture.
      (2)   Any device, including without limitation a starter's pistol, not
designed as a firearm, but that is specially adapted for use as a firearm.
      (3)   Any industrial tool, signalling device, or safety device, not
designed as a firearm, but that as designed is capable of use as such, when
possessed, carried, or used as a firearm.
(R.C. § 2923.11)
§ 137.02 CARRYING CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly carry or have, concealed on the person's
person or concealed ready at hand, any of the following:
      (1)   A deadly weapon other than a handgun;
      (2)   A handgun other than a dangerous ordnance;
      (3)   A dangerous ordnance.
   (B)   No person who has been issued a concealed handgun license shall do any
of the following:
      (1)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and is
carrying a concealed handgun, before or at the time a law enforcement officer
asks if the person is carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to disclose
that the person then is carrying a concealed handgun, provided that it is not a
violation of this division if the person fails to disclose that fact to an
officer during the stop and the person already has notified another officer of
that fact during the same stop;
      (2)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and is
carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to keep the person’s hands in
plain sight at any time after any law enforcement officer begins approaching
the person while stopped and before the law enforcement officer leaves, unless
the failure is pursuant to and in accordance with directions given by a law
enforcement officer;
      (3)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose, if the
person is carrying a concealed handgun, and if the person is approached by any
law enforcement officer while stopped, knowingly remove or attempt to remove
the loaded handgun from the holster, pocket, or other place in which the person
is carrying it, knowingly grasp or hold the loaded handgun, or knowingly have
contact with the loaded handgun by touching it with the person’s hands or
fingers at any time after the law enforcement officer begins approaching and
before the law enforcement officer leaves, unless the person removes, attempts
to remove, grasps, holds, or has contact with the loaded handgun pursuant to
and in accordance with directions given by the law enforcement officer;
      (4)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and is
carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly disregard or fail to comply with any
lawful order of any law enforcement officer given while the person is stopped,
including, but not limited to, a specific order to the person to keep the
person’s hands in plain sight.
   (C)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or the
United States, or to a law enforcement officer, who is authorized to carry
concealed weapons or dangerous ordnance or is authorized to carry handguns and
is acting within the scope of the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s duties;
         (b)   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry concealed weapons or dangerous ordnance or is authorized to carry
handguns, and who is subject to and in compliance with the requirements of R.C.
§ 109.801, unless the appointing authority of the person has expressly
specified that the exemption provided in this division (C)(1)(b) does not apply
to the person;
         (c)   A person’s transportation or storage of a firearm, other than a
firearm described in R.C. § 2923.11(G) to (M), in a motor vehicle for any
lawful purpose if the firearm is not on the actor’s person;
         (d)   A person’s storage or possession of a firearm, other than a
firearm described in R.C. § 2923.11(G) to (M), in the actor’s own home for any
lawful purpose.
      (2)   Division (A)(2) of this section does not apply to any person who
has been issued a concealed handgun license that is valid at the time of the
alleged carrying or possession of a handgun or who, at the time of the alleged
carrying or possession of a handgun, is an active duty member of the armed
forces of the United States and is carrying a valid military identification
card and documentation of successful completion of firearms training that meets
or exceeds the training requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), unless
the person knowingly is in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(1) of this
section of carrying or having control of a weapon other than a handgun and
other than a dangerous ordnance, that the actor was not otherwise prohibited by
law from having the weapon, and that any of the following applies:
      (1)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for
defensive purposes, while the actor was engaged in or was going to or from the
actor's lawful business or occupation, which business or occupation was of a
character or was necessarily carried on in a manner or at a time or place as to
render the actor particularly susceptible to criminal attack, such as would
justify a prudent person in going armed.
      (2)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for
defensive purposes, while the actor was engaged in a lawful activity and had
reasonable cause to fear a criminal attack upon the actor, a member of the
actor's family, or the actor's home, such as would justify a prudent person in
going armed.
      (3)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for any
lawful purpose and while in the actor's own home.
   (E)   (1)   No person who is charged with a violation of this section shall
be required to obtain a concealed handgun license as a condition for the
dismissal of the charge.
      (2)   If a person is convicted of, was convicted of, pleads guilty to, or
has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (B)(1) of this section as it
existed prior to June 13, 2022, the person may file an application under R.C. §
2953.35 requesting the expungement of the record of conviction.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of carrying concealed
weapons. Except as otherwise provided in this division or divisions (F)(2), (F)
(6) and (F)(7) of this section, carrying concealed weapons in violation of
division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Except as
otherwise provided in this division or divisions (F)(2), (F)(6) and (F)(7) of
this section, if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of
this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance
or of any offense of violence, if the weapon involved is a firearm that is
either loaded or for which the offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the
weapon involved is dangerous ordnance, carrying concealed weapons in violation
of division (A) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law. Except as otherwise provided in divisions (F)(2), (F)(6) and (F)(7)
of this section, if the offense is committed aboard an aircraft, or with
purpose to carry a concealed weapon aboard an aircraft, regardless of the
weapon involved, carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (A) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A person shall not be arrested for a violation of division (A)(2)
of this section solely because the person does not promptly produce a valid
concealed handgun license. If a person is arrested for a violation of division
(A)(2) of this section and is convicted of or pleads guilty to the violation,
the offender shall be punished as follows:
         (a)   The offender shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor if both of
the following apply:
            1.   Within 10 days after the arrest, the offender presents a
concealed handgun license, which license was valid at the time of the arrest to
the law enforcement agency that employs the arresting officer.
            2.   At the time of the arrest, the offender was not knowingly in a
place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
         (b)   The offender shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined
$500 if all of the following apply:
            1.   The offender previously had been issued a concealed handgun
license, and that license expired within the two years immediately preceding
the arrest.
            2.   Within 45 days after the arrest, the offender presents a
concealed handgun license to the law enforcement agency that employed the
arresting officer, and the offender waives in writing the offender's right to a
speedy trial on the charge of the violation that is provided in R.C. § 2945.71.
            3.   At the time of the commission of the offense, the offender was
not knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
         (c)   If divisions (F)(2)(a) and (F)(2)(b) and (F)(6) of this section
do not apply, the offender shall be punished under division (F)(1) or (F)(7) of
this section.
      (3)   Carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (B)(1) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (4)   Carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (B)(2) or (B)
(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division
(B)(2) or (B)(4) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. In
addition to any other penalty or sanction imposed for a misdemeanor violation
of division (B)(2) or (B)(4) of this section, the offender’s concealed handgun
license shall be suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2).
      (5)   Carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (B)(3) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (6)   If a person being arrested for a violation of division (A)(2) of
this section is an active duty m ember of the armed forces of the United States
and is carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of
successful completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training
requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), and if at the time of the
violation the person was not knowingly in a place described in R.C. 2923.126
(B), the officer shall not arrest the person for a violation of that division.
If the person is not able to promptly produce a valid military identification
card and documentation of successful completion of firearms training that meets
or exceeds the training requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1) and if
the person is not in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B), the officer shall
issue a citation and the offender shall be assessed a civil penalty of not more
than $500. The citation shall be automatically dismissed and the civil penalty
shall not be assessed if both of the following apply:
         (a)   Within ten days after the issuance of the citation, the offender
presents a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), which were both valid at the time of the
issuance of the citation to the law enforcement agency that employs the citing
officer.
         (b)   At the time of the citation, the offender was not knowingly in a
place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
      (7)   If a person being arrested for a violation of division (A)(2) of
this section is knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B)(5) and is
not authorized to carry a handgun or have a handgun concealed on the person’s
person or concealed ready at hand under that division, the penalty shall be as
follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person
produces a valid concealed handgun license within ten days after the arrest and
has not previously been convicted or pleaded guilty to a violation of division
(A)(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the person is guilty of a minor misdemeanor;
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person has
previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (A)
(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
         (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person has
previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division
(A)(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree;
         (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person has
previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of
division (A)(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, or convicted of or pleaded guilty to any offense of
violence, if the weapon involved is a firearm that is either loaded or for
which the offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the weapon involved is a
dangerous ordnance, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (G)   If a law enforcement officer stops a person to question the person
regarding a possible violation of this section, for a traffic stop, or for any
other law enforcement purpose, if the person surrenders a firearm to the
officer, either voluntarily or pursuant to a request or demand of the officer,
and if the officer does not charge the person with a violation of this section
or arrest the person for any offense, the person is not otherwise prohibited by
law from possessing the firearm, and the firearm is not contraband, the officer
shall return the firearm to the person at the termination of the stop. If a
court orders a law enforcement officer to return a firearm to a person pursuant
to the requirement set forth in this division, R.C. § 2923.163(B) applies.
   (H)   For purposes of this section, “deadly weapon” or “weapon” does not
include any knife, razor, or cutting instrument if the instrument was not used
as a weapon.
(R.C. § 2923.12)
Statutory reference:
   Carrying concealed handguns, licensing through county sheriff, see R.C. §§
2923.124 et seq.
   Concealed carry by a qualifying adult, see R.C. § 2923.111
   Conveyance or possession of deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance on school
premises, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.122
   Conveyance, possession, or control of deadly weapon or dangerous ordinance
in a courthouse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.123
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, felony offense, see R.C.
§ 2923.131
   Possession of firearm in liquor permit premises, felony offense, see R.C. §
2923.121
§ 137.03 USING WEAPONS WHILE INTOXICATED.
   (A)   No person, while under the influence of alcohol or any drug of abuse,
shall carry or use any firearm or dangerous ordnance.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of using weapons while
intoxicated, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2923.15)
§ 137.04 IMPROPERLY HANDLING FIREARMS IN A MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly discharge a firearm while in or on a motor
vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a loaded firearm in a
motor vehicle in such a manner that the firearm is accessible to the operator
or any passenger without leaving the vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a firearm in a motor
vehicle, unless the person may lawfully possess that firearm under applicable
law of this state or the United States, the firearm is unloaded, and the
firearm is carried in one of the following ways:
      (1)   In a closed package, box, or case.
      (2)   In a compartment that can be reached only by leaving the vehicle.
      (3)   In plain sight and secured in a rack or holder made for the
purpose.
      (4)   If the firearm is at least 24 inches in overall length as measured
from the muzzle to the part of the stock furthest from the muzzle and if the
barrel is at least 18 inches in length, either in plain sight with the action
open or the weapon stripped, or, if the firearm is of a type on which the
action will not stay open or which cannot easily be stripped, in plain sight.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a loaded handgun in a
motor vehicle if, at the time of that transportation or possession, any of the
following applies:
      (1)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a
combination of them.
      (2)   The person's whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine
contains a concentration of alcohol, a listed controlled substance, or a listed
metabolite of a controlled substance prohibited for persons operating a
vehicle, as specified in R.C. § 4511.19(A), regardless of whether the person at
the time of the transportation or possession as described in this division is
the operator of or a passenger in the motor vehicle.
   (E)   No person who has been issued a concealed handgun license or who is an
active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is carrying a
valid military identification card and documentation of successful completion
of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements described
in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1),who is the driver or an occupant of a motor vehicle
that is stopped as a result of a traffic stop or a stop for another law
enforcement purpose or is the driver or an occupant of a commercial motor
vehicle that is stopped by an employee of the motor carrier enforcement unit
for the purposes defined in R.C. § 5503.34, and who is transporting or has a
loaded handgun in the motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle in any manner,
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Before or at the time a law enforcement officer asks if the person
is carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to disclose that the person
then possesses or has a loaded handgun in the motor vehicle, provided that it
is not a violation of this division if the person fails to disclose that fact
to an officer during the stop and the person already has notified another
officer of that fact during the same stop;
      (2)   Before or at the time an employee of the motor carrier enforcement
unit asks if the person is carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to
disclose that the person then possesses or has a loaded handgun in the
commercial motor vehicle, provided that it is not a violation of this division
if the person fails to disclose that fact to an employee of the unit during the
stop and the person already has notified another employee of the unit of that
fact during the same stop;
      (3)   Knowingly fail to remain in the motor vehicle while stopped, or
knowingly fail to keep the person’s hands in plain sight at any time after any
law enforcement officer begins approaching the person while stopped and before
the law enforcement officer leaves, unless the failure is pursuant to and in
accordance with directions given by a law enforcement officer;
      (4)   Knowingly have contact with the loaded handgun by touching it with
the person’s hands or fingers in the motor vehicle at any time after the law
enforcement officer begins approaching and before the law enforcement officer
leaves, unless the person has contact with the loaded handgun pursuant to and
in accordance with directions given by the law enforcement officer; or
      (5)   Knowingly disregard or fail to comply with any lawful order of any
law enforcement officer given while the motor vehicle is stopped, including but
not limited to a specific order to the person to keep the person’s hands in
plain sight.
   (F)   (1)   Divisions (A), (B), (C), and (E) of this section do not apply to
any of the following:
         (a)   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or the
United States, or a law enforcement officer, when authorized to carry or have
loaded or accessible firearms in motor vehicles and acting within the scope of
the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s duties;
         (b)   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry or have loaded or accessible firearms in motor vehicles, and who is
subject to and in compliance with the requirements of R.C. § 109.801, unless
the appointing authority of the person has expressly specified that the
exemption provided in this division (F)(1)(b) does not apply to the person.
      (2)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a person if all of
the following circumstances apply:
         (a)   The person discharges a firearm from a motor vehicle at a coyote
or groundhog, the discharge is not during the deer gun hunting season as set by
the Chief of the Division of Wildlife of the Department of Natural Resources,
and the discharge at the coyote or groundhog, but for the operation of this
section, is lawful.
         (b)   The motor vehicle from which the person discharges the firearm
is on real property that is located in an unincorporated area of a township and
that is either zoned for agriculture or is used for agriculture.
         (c)   The person owns the real property described in division (F)(2)
(b) of this section, is the spouse or a child of another person who owns that
real property, is a tenant of another person who owns that real property, or is
the spouse or a child of a tenant of another person who owns that real
property.
         (d)   The person does not discharge the firearm in any of the
following manners:
            1.   While under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or
alcohol and a drug of abuse;
            2.   In the direction of a street, highway or other public or
private property used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking;
            3.   At or into an occupied structure that is a permanent or
temporary habitation;
            4.   In the commission of any violation of law, including but not
limited to a felony that includes, as an essential element, purposely or
knowingly causing or attempting to cause the death of or physical harm to
another and that was committed by discharging a firearm from a motor vehicle.
      (3)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a person if all of
the following apply:
         (a)   The person possesses a valid electric-powered all-purpose
vehicle permit issued under R.C. § 1533.103 by the Chief of the Division of
Wildlife.
         (b)   The person discharges a firearm at a wild quadruped or game bird
as defined in R.C. § 1531.01 during the open hunting season for the applicable
wild quadruped or game bird.
         (c)   The person discharges a firearm from a stationary all-purpose
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 1531.01 from private or publicly owned lands or
from a motor vehicle that is parked on a road that is owned or administered by
the Division of Wildlife.
         (d)   The person does not discharge the firearm in any of the
following manners:
            1.   While under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or
alcohol and a drug of abuse;
            2.   In the direction of a street, a highway, or other public or
private property that is used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking;
            3.   At or into an occupied structure that is a permanent or
temporary habitation;
            4.   In the commission of any violation of law, including, but not
limited to, a felony that includes, as an essential element, purposely or
knowingly causing or attempting to cause the death of or physical harm to
another and that was committed by discharging a firearm from a motor vehicle.
      (4)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to a person if
all of the following circumstances apply:
         (a)   At the time of the alleged violation of either of those
divisions, the person is the operator of or a passenger in a motor vehicle.
         (b)   The motor vehicle is on real property that is located in an
unincorporated area of a township and that is either zoned for agriculture or
is used for agriculture.
         (c)   The person owns the real property described in division (F)(4)
(b) of this section, is the spouse or a child of another person who owns that
real property, is a tenant of another person who owns that real property, or is
the spouse or a child of a tenant of another person who owns that real
property.
         (d)   The person, prior to arriving at the real property described in
division (F)(4)(b) of this section, did not transport or possess a firearm in
the motor vehicle in a manner prohibited by division (B) or (C) of this section
while the motor vehicle was being operated on a street, highway or other public
or private property used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking.
      (5)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to a person who
transports or possesses a handgun in a motor vehicle if, at the time of that
transportation or possession, both of the following apply:
         (a)   The person transporting or possessing the handgun has been
issued a concealed handgun license that is valid at the time in question or the
person is an active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is
carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1).
         (b)   The person transporting or possessing the handgun is not
knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
      (6)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to a person if
all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person possesses a valid all-purpose vehicle permit issued
under R.C. § 1533.103 by the Chief of the Division of Wildlife.
         (b)   The person is on or in an all-purpose vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 1531.01 or a motor vehicle during the open hunting season for a wild
quadruped or game bird.
         (c)   The person is on or in an all-purpose vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 1531.01 on private or publicly owned lands or on or in a motor vehicle that
is parked on a road that is owned or administered by the Division of Wildlife.
   (G)   (1)   The affirmative defenses authorized in R.C. § 2923.12(D)(1) and
(D)(2) are affirmative defenses to a charge under division (B) or (C) of this
section that involves a firearm other than a handgun.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B) or (C)
of this section of improperly handling firearms in a motor vehicle that the
actor transported or had the firearm in the motor vehicle for any lawful
purpose and while the motor vehicle was on the actor's own property, provided
that this affirmative defense is not available unless the person, immediately
prior to arriving at the actor's own property, did not transport or possess the
firearm in a motor vehicle in a manner prohibited by division (B) or (C) of
this section while the motor vehicle was being operated on a street, highway,
or other public or private property used by the public for vehicular traffic.
   (H)   (1)   No person who is charged with a violation of division (B), (C),
or (D) of this section shall be required to obtain a concealed handgun license
as a condition for the dismissal of the charge.
      (2)   (a)   If a person is convicted of, was convicted of, pleads guilty
to, or has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E) of this section as it
existed prior to September 30, 2011, and the conduct that was the basis of the
violation no longer would be a violation of division (E) of this section on or
after September 30, 2011, or if a person is convicted of, was convicted of,
pleads guilty to, or has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E)(1) or
(E)(2) of this section as it existed prior to June 13, 2022, the person may
file an application under R.C. § 2953.35 requesting the expungement of the
record of conviction.
         (b)   If a person is convicted of, was convicted of, pleads guilty to,
or has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (B) or (C) of this section as
the division existed prior to September 30, 2011, and if the conduct that was
the basis of the violation no longer would be a violation of division (B) or
(C) of this section on or after September 30, 2011, due to the application of
division (F)(5) of this section as it exists on and after September 30, 2011,
the person may file an application under R.C. § 2953.35 requesting the
expungement of the record of conviction.
   (I)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of improperly handling
firearms in a motor vehicle. A violation of division (A) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of division
(C) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. A violation of
division (D) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law and, if the loaded handgun is concealed on the person's person, it is
also a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of
division (E)(1) or (E)(2) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. A violation of division (E)(4) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of division (E)(3) or (E)
(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division
(E)(3) or (E)(5) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. In
addition to any other penalty or sanction imposed for a misdemeanor violation
of division (E)(3) or (E)(5) of this section, the offender's concealed handgun
license shall be suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2). A violation of
division (B) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (J)   If a law enforcement officer stops a motor vehicle for a traffic stop
or any other purpose, if any person in the motor vehicle surrenders a firearm
to the officer, either voluntarily or pursuant to a request or demand of the
officer, and if the officer does not charge the person with a violation of this
section or arrest the person for any offense, the person is not otherwise
prohibited by law from possessing the firearm, and the firearm is not
contraband, the officer shall return the firearm to the person at the
termination of the stop. If a court orders a law enforcement officer to return
a firearm to a person pursuant to the requirement set forth in this division,
R.C. § 2923.163(B) applies.
   (K)   As used in this section:
      AGRICULTURE has the same meaning as in R.C. § 519.01.
      COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4506.25(A).
      MOTOR CARRIER ENFORCEMENT UNIT means the Motor Carrier Enforcement Unit
in the Department of Public Safety, Division of State Highway Patrol, that is
created by R.C. § 5503.34.
      MOTOR VEHICLE, STREET and HIGHWAY have the same meaning as in R.C. §
4511.01.
      OCCUPIED STRUCTURE has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.01.
      TENANT has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1531.01.
      UNLOADED.
         (a)   With respect to a firearm other than a firearm described in
division (d) of this definition, means that no ammunition is in the firearm in
question, no magazine or speed loader containing ammunition is inserted into
the firearm, and one of the following applies:
            1.   There is no ammunition in a magazine or speed loader that is
in the vehicle in question and that may be used with the firearm in question.
            2.   Any magazine or speed loader that contains ammunition and that
may be used with the firearm in question is stored in a compartment within the
vehicle in question that cannot be accessed without leaving the vehicle or is
stored in a container that provides complete and separate enclosure.
         (b)   For the purposes of division (a)2. of this definition, a
“container that provides complete and separate enclosure” includes, but is not
limited to, any of the following:
            1.   A package, box, or case with multiple compartments, as long as
the loaded magazine or speed loader and the firearm in question either are in
separate compartments within the package, box, or case, or, if they are in the
same compartment, the magazine or speed loader is contained within a separate
enclosure in that compartment that does not contain the firearm and that closes
using a snap, button, buckle, zipper, hook and loop closing mechanism, or other
fastener that must be opened to access the contents or the firearm is contained
within a separate enclosure of that nature in that compartment that does not
contain the magazine or speed loader;
            2.   A pocket or other enclosure on the person of the person in
question that closes using a snap, button, buckle, zipper, hook and loop
closing mechanism, or other fastener that must be opened to access the
contents.
         (c)   For the purposes of divisions (a) and (b) of this definition,
ammunition held in stripper- clips or in en-bloc clips is not considered
ammunition that is loaded into a magazine or speed loader.
         (d)   “Unloaded” means, with respect to a firearm employing a
percussion cap, flintlock, or other obsolete ignition system, when the weapon
is uncapped or when the priming charge is removed from the pan.
   (L)   Divisions (a) and (b) of the definition of "unloaded" in division (K)
of this section do not affect the authority of a person who has been issued a
concealed handgun license that is valid at the time in question to have one or
more magazines or speed loaders containing ammunition anywhere in a vehicle,
without being transported as described in those divisions, as long as no
ammunition is in a firearm, other than a handgun, in the vehicle other than as
permitted under any other provision of this chapter. A person who has been
issued a concealed handgun license that is valid at the time in question may
have one or more magazines or speed loaders containing ammunition anywhere in a
vehicle without further restriction, as long as no ammunition is in a firearm,
other than a handgun, in the vehicle other than as permitted under any
provision of this chapter.
(R.C. § 2923.16)
Statutory reference:
Return of surrendered firearms by law enforcement, see R.C. § 2923.163
§ 137.05 POSSESSING CRIMINAL TOOLS.
   (A)   No person shall possess or have under his or her control any
substance, device, instrument, or article, with purpose to use it criminally.
   (B)   Each of the following constitutes prima facie evidence of criminal
purpose:
      (1)   Possession or control of any dangerous ordnance, or the materials
or parts for making a dangerous ordnance, in the absence of circumstances
indicating the dangerous ordnance, materials or parts are intended for a
legitimate use.
      (2)   Possession or control of any substance, device, instrument, or
article designed or specially adapted for criminal use.
      (3)   Possession or control of any substance, device, instrument, or
article commonly used for criminal purposes, under circumstances indicating the
item is intended for criminal use.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possessing criminal tools.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, possessing criminal tools is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the circumstances indicate that the
substance, device, instrument, or article involved in the offense was intended
for use in the commission of a felony, possessing criminal tools is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2923.24)
§ 137.06 FAILURE TO SECURE DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
   (A)   No person, in acquiring, possessing, carrying, or using any dangerous
ordnance, shall negligently fail to take proper precautions:
      (1)   To secure the dangerous ordnance against theft, or against its
acquisition or use by any unauthorized or incompetent person.
      (2)   To insure the safety of persons and property.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to a secure
dangerous ordnance, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2923.19)
§ 137.07 UNLAWFUL TRANSACTIONS IN WEAPONS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Recklessly sell, lend, give or furnish any firearm to any person
prohibited by R.C. § 2923.13 or 2923.15, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, from acquiring or using any firearm, or recklessly sell,
lend, give or furnish any dangerous ordnance to any person prohibited by R.C. §
2923.13, 2923.15 or 2923.17, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
from acquiring or using any dangerous ordnance;
      (2)   Possess any firearm or dangerous ordnance with purpose to dispose
of it in violation of division (A)(1) of this section;
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section,
knowingly solicit, persuade, encourage, or entice a federally licensed firearms
dealer or private seller to transfer a firearm or ammunition to any person in a
manner prohibited by state or federal law;
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section, with
an intent to deceive, knowingly provide materially false information to a
federally licensed firearms dealer or private seller;
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section,
knowingly procure, solicit, persuade, encourage, or entice a person to act in
violation of division (A)(3) or (A)(4) of this section;
      (6)   When transferring any dangerous ordnance to another, negligently
fail to require the transferee to exhibit such identification, license, or
permit showing the transferee to be authorized to acquire dangerous ordnance
pursuant to R.C. § 2923.17, or negligently fail to take a complete record of
the transaction and forthwith forward a copy of the record to the sheriff of
the county or Safety Director or Police Chief of the municipality where the
transaction takes place;
      (7)   Knowingly fail to report to law enforcement authorities forthwith
the loss or theft of any firearm or dangerous ordnance in the person's
possession and under his or her control.
   (B)   Divisions (A)(3), (A)(4), and (A)(5) of this section do not apply to
any of the following:
      (1)   A law enforcement officer who is acting within the scope of the
officer’s duties;
      (2)   A person who is acting in accordance with directions given by a law
enforcement officer described in division (B)(1) of this section.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful transactions in
weapons. A violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. A
violation of division (A)(6) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. A violation of division (A)(7) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      AMMUNITION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.401.
      FEDERALLY LICENSED FIREARMS DEALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5502.63.
      MATERIALLY FALSE INFORMATION. Means information regarding the transfer of
a firearm or ammunition that portrays an illegal transaction as legal or a
legal transaction as illegal.
      PRIVATE SELLER. Means a person who sells, offers for sale, or transfers a
firearm or ammunition and who is not a federally licensed firearms dealer.
(R.C. § 2923.20)
§ 137.08 UNDERAGE PURCHASE OF FIREARM OR HANDGUN.
   (A)   No person under 18 years of age shall purchase or attempt to purchase
a firearm.
   (B)   No person under 21 years of age shall purchase or attempt to purchase
a handgun; provided, that this division does not apply to the purchase or
attempted purchase of a handgun by a person 18 years of age or older and under
21 years of age if either of the following applies:
      (1)   The person is a law enforcement officer and has received firearms
training approved by the Ohio Peace Officer Training Council or equivalent
firearms training.
      (2)   The person is an active or reserve member of the armed services of
the United States or the Ohio National Guard, or was honorably discharged from
military service in the active or reserve armed services of the United States
or the Ohio National Guard, and the person has received firearms training from
the armed services or the national guard or equivalent firearms training.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of underage
purchase of a firearm, a delinquent act that would be a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law if it could be committed by an adult. Whoever
violates division (B) of this section is guilty of underage purchase of a
handgun, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2923.211)
Statutory reference:
   Improperly furnishing firearms to a minor, felony, see R.C. § 2923.21
§ 137.09 POINTING AND DISCHARGING FIREARMS AND OTHER WEAPONS.
   (A)   Discharge of firearms on or near prohibited premises. No person shall
do any of the following:
      (1)   Without permission from the proper officials and subject to
division (B)(1) of this section, discharge a firearm upon or over a cemetery or
within 100 yards of a cemetery;
      (2)   Subject to division (B)(2) of this section, discharge of a firearm
on a lawn, park, pleasure ground, orchard, or other ground appurtenant to a
schoolhouse, church, or inhabited dwelling, the property of another, or a
charitable institution;
      (3)   Discharge a firearm upon or over a public road or highway.
   (B)   (1)   Division (A)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
while on the person's own land, discharges a firearm.
      (2)   Division (A)(2) of this section does not apply to a person who owns
any type of property described in that division and who, while on the person's
own enclosure, discharges a firearm.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of discharge
of a firearm on or near prohibited premises. A violation of division (A)(1) or
(A)(2) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. A violation of
division (A)(3) shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2) of this section, a
violation of division (A)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (2)   If the violation created a substantial risk of physical harm to any
person, caused serious physical harm to property, caused physical harm to any
person, or caused serious physical harm to any person, a violation of division
(A)(3) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2923.162)
   (D)   Hunting near township park.
      (1)   No person shall hunt, shoot, or kill game within one-half mile of a
township park unless the Board of Township Park Commissioners has granted
permission to kill game not desired within the limits prohibited by this
division.
(R.C. § 3773.06)
      (2)   Whoever violates division (D)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 3773.99(A))
   (E)   No person shall discharge any BB gun, air gun, or firearm, or make use
of any sling, bow and arrow, or crossbow, within the corporate limits of the
municipality.
   (F)   No person shall, intentionally and without malice, point or aim any BB
gun, air gun, or firearm, or any sling, bow and arrow, or crossbow at or toward
another.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (E) or (F) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (H)   Exceptions. This section shall not prohibit the firing of a military
salute or the firing of weapons by persons of the nation's armed forces acting
under military authority, and shall not apply to law enforcement officials or
other government officials in the proper enforcement of the law, or to any
person in the proper exercise of the right of self defense, or to any person
otherwise lawfully permitted by proper federal, state or local authorities to
discharge a BB gun, air gun, or firearm, or to use a sling, bow and arrow, or
crossbow in a manner contrary to the provisions of this section. Division (E)
of this section does not extend to cases in which BB guns, air guns, or
firearms, or slings, bows and arrows, or crossbows are used in the confines of
structures or used within the confines of a person’s own property, provided
such use is under adult supervision and is approved by the municipality.
Statutory reference:
   Improperly discharging firearm at or into habitation or school safety zone,
felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.161
§ 137.10 LICENSE OR PERMIT TO POSSESS DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
   (A)   Upon application to the sheriff of the county or Safety Director or
Police Chief of the municipality where the applicant resides or has the
applicant’s principal place of business, and upon payment of the fee specified
in division (B) of this section, a license or temporary permit shall be issued
to qualified applicants to acquire, possess, carry or use a dangerous ordnance
for the following purposes:
      (1)   Contractors, wreckers, quarriers, mine operators and other persons
regularly employing explosives in the course of a legitimate business, with
respect to explosives and explosive devices acquired, possessed, carried or
used in the course of such business.
      (2)   Farmers, with respect to explosives and explosive devices acquired,
possessed, carried or used for agricultural purposes on lands farmed by them.
      (3)   Scientists, engineers, and instructors, with respect to a dangerous
ordnance acquired, possessed, carried or used in the course of bona fide
research or instruction.
      (4)   Financial institutions and armored car company guards, with respect
to automatic firearms lawfully acquired, possessed, carried or used by any such
person while acting within the scope of the person’s duties.
      (5)   In the discretion of the issuing authority, any responsible person,
with respect to a dangerous ordnance lawfully acquired, possessed, carried or
used for a legitimate research, scientific, educational, industrial or other
proper purpose.
   (B)   Application for a license or temporary permit under this section shall
be in writing under oath to the sheriff of the county or Safety Director or
Police Chief of the municipality where the applicant resides or has the
applicant’s principal place of business. The application shall be accompanied
by an application fee of $50 when the application is for a license, and an
application fee of $5 when the application is for a temporary permit. The fees
shall be paid into the general revenue fund of the county or municipality. The
application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name, age, address, occupation and business address of the
applicant, if the applicant is a natural person, or the name, address, and
principal place of business of the applicant if the applicant is a corporation.
      (2)   A description of the dangerous ordnance for which a permit is
requested.
      (3)   A description of the places where and the manner in which the
dangerous ordnance is to be kept, carried, and used.
      (4)   A statement of the purposes for which the dangerous ordnance is to
be acquired, possessed, carried or used.
      (5)   Such other information as the issuing authority may require in
giving effect to this section.
   (C)   Upon investigation, the issuing authority shall issue a license or
temporary permit only if all of the following apply:
      (1)   The applicant is not otherwise prohibited by law from acquiring,
having, carrying or using a dangerous ordnance.
      (2)   The applicant is 21 years of age or over, if the applicant is a
natural person.
      (3)   It appears that the applicant has sufficient competence to safely
acquire, possess, carry or use the dangerous ordnance, and that proper
precautions will be taken to protect the security of the dangerous ordnance and
ensure the safety of persons and property.
      (4)   It appears that the dangerous ordnance will be lawfully acquired,
possessed, carried and used by the applicant for a legitimate purpose.
   (D)   The license or temporary permit shall identify the person to whom it
is issued, identify the dangerous ordnance involved and state the purposes for
which the license or temporary permit is issued, state the expiration date, if
any, and list such restrictions on the acquisition, possession, carriage, or
use of the dangerous ordnance as the issuing authority considers advisable to
protect the security of the dangerous ordnance and ensure the safety of persons
and property.
   (E)   A temporary permit shall be issued for the casual use of explosives
and explosive devices, and other consumable dangerous ordnance, and shall
expire within 30 days of its issuance. A license shall be issued for the
regular use of a consumable dangerous ordnance, which license need not specify
an expiration date, but the issuing authority may specify such expiration date,
not earlier than one year from the date of issuance, as it considers advisable
in view of the nature of the dangerous ordnance and the purposes for which the
license is issued.
   (F)   The dangerous ordnance specified in a license or temporary permit may
be obtained by the holder anywhere in the state. Pursuant to R.C. § 2923.18(F),
the holder of a license may use such dangerous ordnance anywhere in the state.
The holder of a temporary permit may use such dangerous ordnance only within
the territorial jurisdiction of the issuing authority.
   (G)   The issuing authority shall forward to the State Fire Marshal a copy
of each license or temporary permit issued pursuant to this section, and a copy
of each record of a transaction in a dangerous ordnance and of each report of a
lost or stolen dangerous ordnance, given to the local law enforcement authority
as required by R.C. § 2923.20(A)(6) and (A)(7) or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance. The State Fire Marshal will keep a permanent file of all
licenses and temporary permits issued pursuant to this section, and of all
records of transactions in, and losses or thefts of a dangerous ordnance
forwarded by local law enforcement authorities pursuant to this section.
(R.C. § 2923.18)
§ 137.11 POSSESSION OF AN OBJECT INDISTINGUISHABLE FROM A FIREARM IN A SCHOOL
SAFETY ZONE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly possess an object in a school safety zone if
both of the following apply:
      (1)   The object is indistinguishable from a firearm, whether or not the
object is capable of being fired.
      (2)   The person indicates that the person possesses the object and that
it is a firearm, or the person knowingly displays or brandishes the object and
indicates that it is a firearm.
   (B)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or the
United States who is authorized to carry deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance
and is acting within the scope of the officer's, agent's, or employee's duties;
         (b)   A law enforcement officer who is authorized to carry deadly
weapons or dangerous ordnance;
         (c)   A security officer employed by a board of education or governing
body of a school during the time that the security officer is on duty pursuant
to that contract of employment;
         (d)   1.   Any person not described in divisions (B)(1)(a) to (B)(1)
(c) of this section who has written authorization from the board of education
or governing body of a school to convey deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance
into a school safety zone or to possess a deadly weapon or dangerous ordnance
in a school safety zone and who conveys or possesses the deadly weapon or
dangerous ordnance in accordance with that authorization, provided both of the
following apply:
               a.   Either the person has successfully completed the
curriculum, instruction, and training established under R.C. § 5502.703, or the
person has received a certificate of having satisfactorily completed an
approved basic peace officer training program or is a law enforcement officer;
               b.   The board or governing body has notified the public, by
whatever means the affected school regularly communicates with the public, that
the board or governing body has authorized one or more persons to go armed
within a school operated by the board or governing authority.
            2.   A district board or school governing body that authorizes a
person under division (B)(1)(d) of this section shall require that person to
submit to an annual criminal records check conducted in the same manner as R.C.
§ 3319.39 or R.C. § 3319.391.
         (e)   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance, and who is subject to and in
compliance with the requirements of R.C. § 109.801, unless the appointing
authority of the person has expressly specified that the exemption provided in
division (B)(1)(e) of this section does not apply to the person.
      (2)   This section does not apply to premises upon which home schooling
is conducted. This section also does not apply to a school administrator,
teacher or employee who possesses an object that is indistinguishable from a
firearm for legitimate school purposes during the course of employment, a
student who uses an object that is indistinguishable from a firearm under the
direction of a school administrator, teacher or employee, or any other person
who, with the express prior approval of a school administrator, possesses an
object that is indistinguishable from a firearm for a legitimate purpose,
including the use of the object in a ceremonial activity, a play, re-enactment
or other dramatic presentation, school safety training, or a ROTC activity or
another similar use of the object.
      (3)   This section does not apply to a person who conveys or attempts to
convey a handgun into, or possesses a handgun in, a school safety zone if, at
the time of that conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession of the
handgun, all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person does not enter into a school building or onto school
premises and is not at a school activity.
         (b)   The person has been issued a concealed handgun license that is
valid at the time of the conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession or the
person is an active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is
carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1).
         (c)   The person is in the school safety zone in accordance with 18
U.S.C. § 922(q)(2)(B).
         (d)   The person is not knowingly in a place described in R.C. §
2923.126(B)(1) or (B)(3) through (B)(8).
      (4)   This section does not apply to a person who conveys or attempts to
convey a handgun into, or possesses a handgun in, a school safety zone if at
the time of that conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession of the handgun
all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person has been issued a concealed handgun license that is
valid at the time of the conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession or the
person is an active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is
carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1).
         (b)   The person leaves the handgun in a motor vehicle.
         (c)   The handgun does not leave the motor vehicle.
         (d)   If the person exits the motor vehicle, the person locks the
motor vehicle.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal possession of an
object indistinguishable from a firearm in a school safety zone. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, illegal possession of an object
indistinguishable from a firearm in a school safety zone is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation
of this section, illegal possession of an object indistinguishable from a
firearm in a school safety zone is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (D)   (1)   In addition to any other penalty imposed upon a person who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of this section, and subject to
division (D)(2) of this section, if the offender has not attained 19 years of
age, regardless of whether the offender is attending or is enrolled in a school
operated by a board of education or for which the Director of Education and
Workforce prescribes minimum standards under R.C. § 3301.07, the court shall
impose upon the offender a class four suspension of the offender’s probationary
driver’s license, restricted license, driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, or probationary commercial driver’s
license that then is in effect from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4)
and shall deny the offender the issuance of any permit or license of that type
during the period of the suspension. If the offender is not a resident of this
state, the court shall impose a class four suspension of the nonresident
operating privilege of the offender from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02
(A)(4).
      (2)   If the offender shows good cause why the court should not suspend
one of the types of licenses, permits or privileges specified in division (D)
(1) of this section or deny the issuance of one of the temporary instruction
permits specified in division (D)(1) of this section, the court in its
discretion may choose not to impose the suspension, revocation or denial
required in division (D)(1) of this section, but the court, in its discretion,
instead may require the offender to perform community service for a number of
hours determined by the court.
   (E)   As used in this section, OBJECT THAT IS INDISTINGUISHABLE FROM A
FIREARM means an object made, constructed or altered so that, to a reasonable
person without specialized training in firearms, the object appears to be a
firearm.
(R.C. § 2923.122(C) - (G))
Statutory reference:
   Conveyance or possession of deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance in a school
safety zone, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.122(A) and (B)
§ 137.12 POSSESSION OF DEADLY WEAPON WHILE UNDER DETENTION.
   (A)   DETENTION and DETENTION FACILITY have the same meanings as in R.C. §
2921.01.
   (B)   No person under detention at a detention facility shall possess a
deadly weapon.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possession of a deadly
weapon while under detention.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2) of this section,
possession of a deadly weapon while under detention is a felony to be
prosecuted under state law.
      (2)   If the offender, at the time of the commission of the offense, was
under detention as an alleged or adjudicated delinquent child or unruly child
and if at the time the offender commits the act for which the offender was
under detention it would not be a felony if committed by an adult, possession
of a deadly weapon while under detention is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2923.131)
Statutory reference:
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, felony offenses, see R.C.
§ 2923.131
§ 137.13 CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSES: POSSESSION OF A REVOKED OR SUSPENDED
LICENSE; ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS; POSTING OF SIGNS PROHIBITING POSSESSION.
   (A)   Possession of a revoked or suspended concealed handgun license.
      (1)   No person, except in the performance of official duties, shall
possess a concealed handgun license that was issued and that has been revoked
or suspended.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (A) is guilty of possessing a
revoked or suspended concealed handgun license, a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. § 2923.1211(B), (C))
   (B)   Additional restrictions. Pursuant to R.C. § 2923.126:
      (1)   A concealed handgun license that is issued under R.C. § 2923.125
shall expire five years after the date of issuance. A licensee who has been
issued a license under that section shall be granted a grace period of 30 days
after the licensee's license expires during which the licensee's license
remains valid. Except as provided in divisions (B)(2) and (B)(3) of this
section, a licensee who has been issued a concealed handgun license under R.C.
§ 2923.125 or 2923.1213 may carry a concealed handgun anywhere in this state if
the license is valid when the licensee is in actual possession of a concealed
handgun. The licensee shall give notice of any change in the licensee's
residence address to the sheriff who issued the license within 45 days after
that change.
      (2)   A valid concealed handgun license does not authorize the licensee
to carry a concealed handgun in any manner prohibited under R.C. § 2923.12(B)
or in any manner prohibited under R.C. § 2923.16. A valid license does not
authorize the licensee to carry a concealed handgun into any of the following
places:
         (a)   A police station, sheriff’s office, or state highway patrol
station, premises controlled by the bureau of criminal identification and
investigation; a state correctional institution, jail, workhouse, or other
detention facility; any area of an airport passenger terminal that is beyond a
passenger or property screening checkpoint or to which access is restricted
through security measures by the airport authority or a public agency; or an
institution that is maintained, operated, managed, and governed pursuant to
R.C. § 5119.14(A) or R.C. § 5123.03(A)(1);
         (b)   A school safety zone if the licensee's carrying the concealed
handgun is in violation of R.C. § 2923.122;
         (c)   A courthouse or another building or structure in which a
courtroom is located if the licensee’s carrying the concealed handgun is in
violation of R.C. § 2923.123;
         (d)   Any premises or open air arena for which a D permit has been
issued under R.C. Chapter 4303 if the licensee's carrying the concealed handgun
is in violation of R.C. § 2923.121;
         (e)   Any premises owned or leased by any public or private college,
university, or other institution of higher education, unless the handgun is in
a locked motor vehicle or the licensee is in the immediate process of placing
the handgun in a locked motor vehicle or unless the licensee is carrying the
concealed handgun pursuant to a written policy, rule, or other authorization
that is adopted by the institution’s board of trustees or other governing body
and that authorizes specific individuals or classes of individuals to carry a
concealed handgun on the premises;
         (f)   Any church, synagogue, mosque, or other place of worship, unless
the church, synagogue, mosque, or other place of worship posts or permits
otherwise;
         (g)   Any building that is a government facility of this state or a
political subdivision of this state and that is not a building that is used
primarily as a shelter, restroom, parking facility for motor vehicles, or rest
facility and is not a courthouse or other building or structure in which a
courtroom is located that is subject to division (B)(2)(c) of this section,
unless the governing body with authority over the building has enacted a
statute, ordinance, or policy that permits a licensee to carry a concealed
handgun into the building;
         (h)   A place in which federal law prohibits the carrying of handguns.
      (3)   (a)   Nothing in this division (B) shall negate or restrict a rule,
policy, or practice of a private employer that is not a private college,
university, or other institution of higher education concerning or prohibiting
the presence of firearms on the private employer's premises or property,
including motor vehicles owned by the private employer. Nothing in this
division (B) shall require a private employer of that nature to adopt a rule,
policy, or practice concerning or prohibiting the presence of firearms on the
private employer's premises or property, including motor vehicles owned by the
private employer.
         (b)   1.   A private employer shall be immune from liability in a
civil action for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that
allegedly was caused by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto the
premises or property of the private employer, including motor vehicles owned by
the private employer, unless the private employer acted with malicious purpose.
A private employer is immune from liability in a civil action for any injury,
death, or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused by or related to
the private employer's decision to permit a licensee to bring, or prohibit a
licensee from bringing, a handgun onto the premises or property of the private
employer.
            2.   A political subdivision shall be immune from liability in a
civil action, to the extent and in the manner provided in R.C. Chapter 2744,
for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused
by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto any premises or property
owned, leased, or otherwise under the control of the political subdivision. As
used in this division, POLITICAL SUBDIVISION has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2744.01.
            3.    An institution of higher education shall be immune from
liability in a civil action for any injury, death, or loss to person or
property that allegedly was caused by or related to a licensee bringing a
handgun onto the premises of the institution, including motor vehicles owned by
the institution, unless the institution acted with malicious purpose. An
institution of higher education is immune from liability in a civil action for
any injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused by
or related to the institution’s decision to permit a licensee or class of
licensees to bring a handgun onto the premises of the institution.
            4.   A nonprofit corporation shall be immune from liability in a
civil action for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that
allegedly was caused by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto the
premises of the nonprofit corporation, including any motor vehicle owned by the
nonprofit corporation, or to any event organized by the nonprofit corporation,
unless the nonprofit corporation acted with malicious purpose. A nonprofit
corporation is immune from liability in a civil action for any injury, death,
or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused by or related to the
nonprofit corporation’s decision to permit a licensee to bring a handgun onto
the premises of the nonprofit corporation or to any event organized by the
nonprofit corporation. The immunities described in this division apply to an
entity that leases its property to the nonprofit corporation or permits its
property to be used by the nonprofit corporation for any purpose.
         (c)   1.   a.   Except as provided in division (B)(3)(c)2. of this
section and R.C. § 2923.1214, the owner or person in control of private land or
premises, and a private person or entity leasing land or premises owned by the
state, the United States, or a political subdivision of the state or the United
States, may post a sign in a conspicuous location on that land or on those
premises prohibiting persons from carrying firearms or concealed firearms on or
onto that land or those premises. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, a person who knowingly violates a posted prohibition of that nature
is guilty of criminal trespass in violation of R.C. § 2911.21(A)(4) and is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If a person knowingly violates a
posted prohibition of that nature and the posted land or premises primarily was
a parking lot or other parking facility, the person is not guilty of criminal
trespass under R.C. § 2911.21 or under any other criminal law of this state or
criminal law, ordinance, or resolution of a political subdivision of this
state, and instead is subject only to a civil cause of action for trespass
based on the violation.
               b.   If a person knowingly violates a posted prohibition of the
nature described in this division and the posted land or premises is a child
care center, type A family child care home, or type B family child care home,
unless the person is a licensee who resides in a type A family child care home
or type B family child care home, the person is guilty of aggravated trespass
in violation of R.C. § 2911.211. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the person
previously has been convicted of a violation of this division or any
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any offense of
violence, if the weapon involved is a firearm that is either loaded or for
which the offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the weapon involved is
dangerous ordnance, the offender is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
            2.   A landlord may not prohibit or restrict a tenant who is a
licensee and who on or after September 9, 2008 enters into a rental agreement
with the landlord for the use of residential premises, and the tenant’s guest
while the tenant is present, from lawfully carrying or possessing a handgun on
those residential premises.
            3.   As used in division (B)(3)(c) of this section:
               LANDLORD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01.
               RENTAL AGREEMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01.
               RESIDENTIAL PREMISES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01,
except the term does not include a dwelling unit that is owned or operated by a
college or university.
               TENANT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01.
      (4)   A person who holds a valid concealed handgun license issued by
another state that is recognized by the Attorney General pursuant to a
reciprocity agreement entered into pursuant to R.C. § 109.69 or a person who
holds a valid concealed handgun license under the circumstances described in
R.C. § 109.69(B) has the same right to carry a concealed handgun in this state
as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license under R.C. § 2923.125
and is subject to the same restrictions that apply to a person who has been
issued a license under that section that is valid at the time in question.
      (5)   (a)   A peace officer has the same right to carry a concealed
handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license
under R.C. § 2923.125, provided that the officer when carrying a concealed
handgun under authority of this division is carrying validating identification.
For purposes of reciprocity with other states, a peace officer shall be
considered to be a licensee in this state.
         (b)   An active duty member of the armed forces of the United States
who is carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of
successful completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training
requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1) has the same right to carry a
concealed handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun
license under R.C. § 2923.125 and is subject to the same restrictions as
specified in this division (B).
         (c)   A tactical medical professional who is qualified to carry
firearms while on duty under R.C. § 109.771 has the same right to carry a
concealed handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun
license under R.C. § 2923.125.
      (6)   (a)   A qualified retired peace officer who possesses a retired
peace officer identification card issued pursuant to division (B)(6)(b) of this
section and a valid firearms requalification certification issued pursuant to
division (B)(6)(c) of this section has the same right to carry a concealed
handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license
under R.C. § 2923.125 and is subject to the same restrictions that apply to a
person who has been issued a license issued under that section that is valid at
the time in question. For purposes of reciprocity with other states, a
qualified retired peace officer who possesses a retired peace officer
identification card issued pursuant to division (B)(6)(b) of this section and a
valid firearms requalification certification issued pursuant to division (B)(6)
(c) of this section shall be considered to be a licensee in this state.
         (b)   1.   Each public agency of this state or of a political
subdivision of this state that is served by one or more peace officers shall
issue a retired peace officer identification card to any person who retired
from service as a peace officer with that agency, if the issuance is in
accordance with the agency’s policies and procedures and if the person, with
respect to the person’s service with that agency, satisfies all of the
following:
               a.   The person retired in good standing from service as a peace
officer with the public agency, and the retirement was not for reasons of
mental instability.
               b.   Before retiring from service as a peace officer with that
agency, the person was authorized to engage in or supervise the prevention,
detection, investigation, or prosecution of, or the incarceration of any person
for, any violation of law and the person had statutory powers of arrest.
               c.   At the time of the person’s retirement as a peace officer
with that agency, the person was trained and qualified to carry firearms in the
performance of the peace officer’s duties.
               d.   Before retiring from service as a peace officer with that
agency, the person was regularly employed as a peace officer for an aggregate
of 15 years or more, or, in the alternative, the person retired from service as
a peace officer with that agency, after completing any applicable probationary
period of that service, due to a service-connected disability, as determined by
the agency.
            2.   A retired peace officer identification card issued to a person
under division (B)(6)(b)1. of this section shall identify the person by name,
contain a photograph of the person, identify the public agency of this state or
of the political subdivision of this state from which the person retired as a
peace officer and that is issuing the identification card, and specify that the
person retired in good standing from service as a peace officer with the
issuing public agency and satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)
(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(B)1.d. of this section. In addition to the required content
specified in this division, a retired peace officer identification card issued
to a person under division (B)(6)(b)1. of this section may include the firearms
requalification certification described in division (B)(6)(c) of this section,
and if the identification card includes that certification, the identification
card shall serve as the firearms requalification certification for the retired
peace officer. If the issuing public agency issues credentials to active law
enforcement officers who serve the agency, the agency may comply with division
(B)(6)(b)1. of this section by issuing the same credentials to persons who
retired from service as a peace officer with the agency and who satisfy the
criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(b)1.d. of this section,
provided that the credentials so issued to retired peace officers are stamped
with the word “RETIRED”.
            3.   A public agency of this state or of a political subdivision of
this state may charge persons who retired from service as a peace officer with
the agency a reasonable fee for issuing to the person a retired peace officer
identification card pursuant to division (B)(6)(b)1. of this section.
         (c)   1.   If a person retired from service as a peace officer with a
public agency of this state or of a political subdivision of this state and the
person satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)
(b)1.d. of this section, the public agency may provide the retired peace
officer with the opportunity to attend a firearms requalification program that
is approved for purposes of firearms requalification required under R.C. §
109.801. The retired peace officer may be required to pay the cost of the
course.
            2.   If a retired peace officer who satisfies the criteria set
forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(b)1.d. of this section attends a
firearms requalification program that is approved for purposes of firearms
requalification required under R.C. § 109.801, the retired peace officer’s
successful completion of the firearms requalification program requalifies the
retired peace officer for purposes of division (B)(6) of this section for five
years from the date on which the program was successfully completed, and the
requalification is valid during that five-year period. If a retired peace
officer who satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)
(6)(b)1.d. of this section satisfactorily completes such a firearms
requalification program, the retired peace officer shall be issued a firearms
requalification certification that identifies the retired peace officer by
name, identifies the entity that taught the program, specifies that the retired
peace officer successfully completed the program, specifies the date on which
the course was successfully completed, and specifies that the requalification
is valid for five years from that date of successful completion. The firearms
requalification certification for a retired peace officer may be included in
the retired peace officer identification card issued to the retired peace
officer under division (B)(6)(b) of this section.
            3.   A retired peace officer who attends a firearms requalification
program that is approved for purposes of firearms requalification required
under R.C. § 109.801 may be required to pay the cost of the program.
      (7)   As used in division (B) of this section:
         FIRE INVESTIGATOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 109.71.
         GOVERNING BODY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 154.01.
         GOVERNMENT FACILITY OF THIS STATE OR A POLITICAL SUBDIVISION OF THIS
STATE. Means any of the following:
            1.   A building or part of a building that is owned or leased by
the government of this state or a political subdivision of this state and where
employees of the government of this state or the political subdivision
regularly are present for the purpose of performing their official duties as
employees of the state or political subdivision;
            2.   The office of a deputy registrar serving pursuant to R.C.
Chapter 4503 that is used to perform deputy registrar functions.
         NONPROFIT CORPORATION. Means any private organization that is exempt
from federal income taxation pursuant to subsection 501(a) and described in
subsection 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code.
         QUALIFIED RETIRED PEACE OFFICER. Means a person who satisfies all of
the following:
            1.   The person satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)
(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(b)1.d. of this section.
            2.   The person is not under the influence of alcohol or another
intoxicating or hallucinatory drug or substance.
            3.   The person is not prohibited by federal law from receiving
firearms.
         RETIRED PEACE OFFICER IDENTIFICATION CARD. Means an identification
card that is issued pursuant to division (B)(6)(b) of this section to a person
who is a retired peace officer.
         TACTICAL MEDICAL PROFESSIONAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
109.71.
         VALIDATING IDENTIFICATION. Means photographic identification issued by
the agency for which an individual serves as a peace officer that identifies
the individual as a peace officer of the agency.
(R.C. § 2923.126)
   (C)   Posting of signs prohibiting possession. Each person, board, or entity
that owns or controls any place or premises identified in R.C. § 2923.126(B) as
a place into which a valid license does not authorize the licensee to carry a
concealed handgun, or a designee of such a person, board, or entity, shall post
in the following one or more conspicuous locations in the premises a sign that
contains a statement in substantially the following form: “Unless otherwise
authorized by law, pursuant to the Ohio Revised Code, no person shall knowingly
possess, have under the person’s control, convey, or attempt to convey a deadly
weapon or dangerous ordnance onto these premises.”
(R.C. § 2923.1212)
§ 137.14 DEFACED FIREARMS.
   (A)   No person shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Change, alter, remove, or obliterate the name of the manufacturer,
model, manufacturer’s serial number, or other mark of identification on a
firearm.
      (2)   Possess a firearm knowing or having reasonable cause to believe
that the name of the manufacturer, model, manufacturer’s serial number, or
other mark of identification on the firearm has been changed, altered, removed,
or obliterated.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of
defacing identification marks of a firearm. Except as otherwise provided in
this division, defacing identification marks of a firearm is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (A)(1) of this section, defacing
identification marks of a firearm is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of
possessing a defaced firearm. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
possessing a defaced firearm is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of
division (A)(2) of this section, possessing a defaced firearm is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any firearm on which no
manufacturer's serial number was inscribed at the time of its manufacture.
(R.C. § 2923.201)
CHAPTER 138: DRUG OFFENSES
Section
   
138.01   Definitions
   
138.02   Adult use cannabis control; limitations on conduct by individuals
   
138.03   Drug possession offenses
   
138.04   Possessing drug abuse instruments
   
138.05   Permitting drug abuse
   
138.06   Illegal cultivation of marihuana
   
138.07   Abusing harmful intoxicants
   
138.08   Illegal dispensing of drug samples
   
138.09   Federal prosecution bar to municipal prosecution
   
138.10   Nitrous oxide: improper dispensing or distribution; possession in a
motor vehicle
   
138.11   Laboratory report required
   
138.12   Counterfeit controlled substances
   
138.13   Use, possession, or sale of drug paraphernalia
   
138.131   Illegal use or possession of marijuana drug paraphernalia
   
138.14   Controlled substance or prescription labels
   
138.15   Possession, sale and disposal of hypodermics
   
138.16   Controlled substance schedules
   
138.17   Unlawful furnishing of prescription to enable persons to be issued
handicapped parking placards or license plates
   
138.18   Pseudoephedrine sales
   
138.19   Notice of contamination from illegal manufacture of methamphetamine
and other illegal drugs
   
138.20   Administration and responsibility for costs
   
138.21   Sale of pure caffeine product
   
138.22   Sale of dextromethorphan
Statutory reference:
   Controlled substances, regulation of pharmacists and other professionals,
see R.C. Chapters 3719 and 4729
   Conviction of professionally licensed persons to be reported to licensing
board, see R.C. § 2925.38
   Criminal and civil forfeiture of property for felony drug abuse offenses,
see R.C. Chapter 2981
   Destruction of chemicals used to produce methamphetamine; preservation of
samples, see R.C. § 2925.52
   Driver’s license suspension after certain drug convictions, see R.C. §
4510.07
   Tampering with drugs, felony offense, see R.C. § 2925.24
§ 138.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words,
terms and phrases and their derivatives used in this chapter which are not
defined in this section shall have the meanings given to them in the Ohio
Revised Code.
   ADMINISTER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   ADULTERATE. To cause a drug to be adulterated as described in R.C. §
3715.63.
   ALCOHOL AND DRUG ADDICTION SERVICES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5119.01.
   BULK AMOUNT. Of a controlled substance means any of the following:
      (1)   For any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance included in
Schedule I, Schedule II, or Schedule III, with the exception of any controlled
substance analog, marihuana, cocaine, L.S.D., heroin, any fentanyl-related
compound, and hashish and except as provided in division (2), (5), or (6) of
this definition, whichever of the following is applicable:
         (a)   An amount equal to or exceeding ten grams or 25 unit doses of a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of
a Schedule I opiate or opium derivative;
         (b)   An amount equal to or exceeding ten grams of a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of raw or gum
opium;
         (c)   An amount equal to or exceeding 30 grams or ten unit doses of a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of
a Schedule I hallucinogen other than tetrahydrocannabinol or lysergic acid
amide, or a Schedule I stimulant or depressant;
         (d)   An amount equal to or exceeding 20 grams or five times the
maximum daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard
pharmaceutical reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule II opiate or opium
derivative;
         (e)   An amount equal to or exceeding five grams or ten unit doses of
a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount
of phencyclidine;
         (f)   An amount equal to or exceeding 120 grams or 30 times the
maximum daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard
pharmaceutical reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule II stimulant that is in
a final dosage form manufactured by a person authorized by the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., as amended) and the federal
drug abuse control laws, as defined in this section, that is or contains any
amount of a Schedule II depressant substance or a Schedule II hallucinogenic
substance;
         (g)   An amount equal to or exceeding three grams of a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule
II stimulant, or any of its salts or isomers, that is not in a final dosage
form manufactured by a person authorized by the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., as amended) and the federal drug abuse
control laws;
      (2)   An amount equal to or exceeding 120 grams or 30 times the maximum
daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard pharmaceutical
reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III or IV substance other than an anabolic
steroid or a Schedule III opiate or opium derivative;
      (3)   An amount equal to or exceeding 20 grams or five times the maximum
daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard pharmaceutical
reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III opiate or opium derivative;
      (4)   An amount equal to or exceeding 250 milliliters or 250 grams of a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of
a Schedule V substance;
      (5)   An amount equal to or exceeding 200 solid dosage units, 16 grams,
or 16 milliliters of a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III anabolic steroid;
      (6)   For any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is a
combination of a fentanyl-related compound and any other compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V,
if the defendant is charged with a violation of R.C. § 2925.11 and the
sentencing provisions set forth in R.C. § 2925.11(C)(10)(b) and (C)(11) will
not apply regarding the defendant and the violation, the bulk amount of the
controlled substance for purposes of the violation is the amount specified in
division (1), (2), (3), (4), or (5) of this definition for the other Schedule
III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V controlled substance that is combined with the
fentanyl- related compound.
   CERTIFIED GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE. A duly constituted and organized committee of
the Ohio State Bar Association or of one or more local bar associations of the
state that complies with the criteria set forth in Rule V, Section 6 of the
Rules for the Government of the Bar of Ohio.
   COCAINE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A cocaine salt, isomer, or derivative, a salt of a cocaine isomer
or derivative, or the base form of cocaine.
      (2)   Coca leaves or a salt, compound, derivative, or preparation of coca
leaves, including ecgonine, a salt, isomer, or derivative of ecgonine, or a
salt of an isomer or derivative of ecgonine.
      (3)   A salt, compound, derivative, or preparation of a substance
identified in division (1) or (2) of this definition that is chemically
equivalent to or identical with any of those substances, except that the
substances shall not include decocainized coca leaves or extraction of coca
leaves if the extractions do not contain cocaine or ecgonine.
   COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A JUVENILE. An offense is “committed in the
vicinity of a juvenile” if the offender commits the offense within 100 feet of
a juvenile or within the view of a juvenile, regardless of whether the offender
knows the age of the juvenile, whether the offender knows the offense is being
committed within 100 feet of or within view of the juvenile, or whether the
juvenile actually views the commission of the offense.
   COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A SCHOOL. An offense is “committed in the
vicinity of a school” if the offender commits the offense on school premises,
in a school building, or within 1,000 feet of the boundaries of any school
premises, regardless of whether the offender knows the offense is being
committed on school premises, in a school building, or within 1,000 feet of the
boundaries of any school premises.
   COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A SUBSTANCE ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER OR A
RECOVERING ADDICT. An offense is "committed in the vicinity of a substance
addiction services provider or a recovering addict" if either of the following
apply:
      (1)   The offender commits the offense on the premises of a substance
addiction services provider's facility, including a facility licensed prior to
June 29, 2019, under R.C. § 5119.391 to provide methadone treatment or an
opioid treatment program licensed on or after that date under R.C. § 5119.37,
or within 500 feet of the premises of a substance addiction services provider's
facility and the offender knows or should know that the offense is being
committed within the vicinity of the substance addiction services provider's
facility.
      (2)   The offender sells, offers to sell, delivers, or distributes the
controlled substance or controlled substance analog to a person who is
receiving treatment at the time of the commission of the offense, or received
treatment within 30 days prior to the commission of the offense, from a
substance addiction services provider and the offender knows that the person is
receiving or received that treatment.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE ANALOG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   COUNTERFEIT CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any drug that bears, or whose container or label bears, a
trademark, trade name, or other identifying mark used without authorization of
the owner of rights to the trademark, trade name, or identifying mark.
      (2)   Any unmarked or unlabeled substance that is represented to be a
controlled substance manufactured, processed, packed, or distributed by a
person other than the person that manufactured, processed, packed, or
distributed it.
      (3)   Any substance that is represented to be a controlled substance but
is not a controlled substance or is a different controlled substance.
      (4)   Any substance other than a controlled substance that a reasonable
person would believe to be a controlled substance because of its similarity in
shape, size, and color, or its markings, labeling, packaging, distribution, or
the price for which it is sold or offered for sale.
   CULTIVATE. Includes planting, watering, fertilizing or tilling.
   DANGEROUS DRUG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   DECEPTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   DISCIPLINARY COUNSEL. The disciplinary counsel appointed by the Board of
Commissioners on Grievances and Discipline of the Ohio Supreme Court under the
Rules for the Government of the Bar of Ohio.
   DISPENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   DISTRIBUTE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   DRUG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2913.02(A) that constitutes theft of drugs,
or any violation of R.C. § 2925.02, 2925.03, 2925.04, 2925.041, 2925.05,
2925.06, 2925.11, 2925.12, 2925.13, 2925.22, 2925.23, 2925.24, 2925.31,
2925.32, 2925.36, or 2925.37.
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former law of a municipality, state
or any other state or of the United States, that is substantially equivalent to
any section listed in division (1) of this definition.
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former law of a municipality, state
or any other state, or of the United States, of which planting, cultivating,
harvesting, processing, making, manufacturing, producing, shipping,
transporting, delivering, acquiring, possessing, storing, distributing,
dispensing, selling, inducing another to use, administering to another, using,
or otherwise dealing with a controlled substance is an element.
      (4)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing or attempting to commit, any offense under division (1), (2), or (3)
of this definition.
   DRUG OF ABUSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.011.
   FELONY DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Any drug abuse offense that would constitute a
felony under the laws of this state, any other state, or the United States.
   FENTANYL-RELATED COMPOUND. Any of the following:
      (1)   Fentanyl;
      (2)   Alpha-methylfentanyl (N-[1-(alpha-methyl-beta-phenyl)ethyl-4-
piperidyl] propionanilide; 1-(1-methyl-2-phenylethyl)-4-(N-propanilido)
piperidine);
      (3)   Alpha-methylthiofentanyl (N-[1-methyl-2-(2-thienyl)ethyl-4-
piperidinyl]-N- phenylpropanamide);
      (4)   Beta-hydroxyfentanyl (N-[1-(2-hydroxy-2-phenethyl-4-piperidinyl]-N-
phenylpropanamide);
      (5)   Beta-hydroxy-3-methylfentanyl (other name: N-[1-(2-hydroxy-2-
phenethyl)-3- methyl-4-piperidinyl]-N-phenylpropanamide);
      (6)   3-methylfentanyl (N-[3-methyl-1-(2-phenylethyl)-4-piperidyl]-N-
phenylpropanamide);
      (7)   3-methylthiofentanyl (N-[3-methyl-1-[2-(thienyl)ethyl]-4-
piperidinyl]-– phenylpropanamide);
      (8)   Para-fluorofentanyl (N-(4-fluorophenyl)-N-[1-(2-phenethyl)-4-
piperidinyl]propanamide;
      (9)   Thiofentanyl (N-phenyl-N-[1-(2-thienyl)ethyl-4-piperidinyl]-
propanamide;
      (10)   Alfentanil;
      (11)   Carfentanil;
      (12)   Remifentanil;
      (13)   Sufentanil;
      (14)   Acetyl-alpha-methylfentanyl (N-[1-(1-methyl-2-phenethyl)-4-
piperidinyl]-N- phenylacetamide); and
      (15)   Any compound that meets all of the following fentanyl
pharmacophore requirements to bind at the mu receptor, as identified by a
report from an established forensic laboratory, including acetylfentanyl,
furanylfentanyl, valerylfentanyl, butyrylfentanyl, isobutyrylfentanyl, 4-
methoxybutyrylfentanyl, para-fluorobutyrylfentanyl, acrylfentanyl, and ortho-
fluorofentanyl:
         (a)   A chemical scaffold consisting of both of the following:
            1.   A five, six, or seven member ring structure containing a
nitrogen, whether or not further substituted;
            2.   An attached nitrogen to the ring, whether or not that nitrogen
is enclosed in a ring structure, including an attached aromatic ring or other
lipophilic group to that nitrogen.
         (b)   A polar functional group attached to the chemical scaffold,
including but not limited to a hydroxyl, ketone, amide, or ester;
         (c)   An alkyl or aryl substitution off the ring nitrogen of the
chemical scaffold; and
         (d)   The compound has not been approved for medical use by the United
States food and drug administration.
   HARMFUL INTOXICANT. Does not include beer or intoxicating liquor, but means
any of the following:
      (1)   Any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance the gas, fumes, or
vapor of which when inhaled can induce intoxication, excitement, giddiness,
irrational behavior, depression, stupefaction, paralysis, unconsciousness,
asphyxiation, or other harmful physiological effects, and includes but is not
limited to any of the following:
         (a)   Any volatile organic solvent, plastic cement, model cement,
fingernail polish remover, lacquer thinner, cleaning fluid, gasoline, or other
preparation containing a volatile organic solvent.
         (b)   Any aerosol propellant.
         (c)   Any fluorocarbon refrigerant.
         (d)   Any anesthetic gas.
      (2)   Gamma Butyrolactone;
      (3)   1,4 Butanediol.
   HASHISH.
      (1)   A resin or a preparation of a resin to which both of the following
apply:
         (a)   It is contained in or derived from any part of the plant of the
genus cannabis, whether in solid form or in a liquid concentrate, liquid
extract, or liquid distillate form.
         (b)   It has a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration of more than
0.3%.
      (2)   The term does not include a hemp byproduct in the possession of a
licensed hemp processor under R.C. Chapter 928, provided that the hemp
byproduct is being produced, stored, and disposed of in accordance with rules
adopted under R.C. § 928.03.
   HYPODERMIC. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   JUVENILE. A person under 18 years of age.
   LICENSED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL AUTHORIZED TO PRESCRIBE DRUGS. Has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   L.S.D. Lysergic acid diethylamide.
   MAJOR DRUG OFFENDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   MANDATORY PRISON TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   MANUFACTURE. To plant, cultivate, harvest, process, make, prepare, or
otherwise engage in any part of the production of a drug, by propagation,
extraction, chemical synthesis, or compounding, or any combination of the same,
and includes packaging, repackaging, labeling, and other activities incident to
production.
   MANUFACTURER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   MARIHUANA. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01, except that it does
not include hashish.
   METHAMPHETAMINE. Methamphetamine, any salt, isomer, or salt of an isomer of
methamphetamine, or any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance containing
methamphetamine or any salt, isomer, or salt of an isomer of methamphetamine.
   MINOR DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSE. Either of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2925.11 as it existed prior to July 1, 1996,
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   A violation of R.C. § 2925.11 as it exists on and after July 1,
1996, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that is a misdemeanor
or a felony of the fifth degree.
   OFFICIAL WRITTEN ORDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   PERSON. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   PERSON WITH A DRUG DEPENDENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.011.
   PHARMACIST. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   PHARMACY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   POSSESS or POSSESSION. Having control over a thing or substance but may not
be inferred solely from mere access to the thing or substance through ownership
or occupation of the premises upon which the thing or substance is found.
   PREMISES OF A SUBSTANCE ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER'S FACILITY. The parcel
of real property on which any substance addiction service provider's facility
is situated.
   PRESCRIPTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   PRESUMPTION FOR A PRISON TERM or PRESUMPTION THAT A PRISON TERM SHALL BE
IMPOSED. A presumption as described in R.C. § 2929.13(D) that a prison term is
a necessary sanction for a felony in order to comply with the purposes and
principles of sentencing under R.C. § 2929.11.
   PROFESSIONAL LICENSE. Any license, permit, certificate, registration,
qualification, admission, temporary license, temporary permit, temporary
certificate, or temporary registration that is described in R.C. § 2925.01(W)
(1) through (W)(37) and that qualifies a person as a professionally licensed
person.
   PROFESSIONALLY LICENSED PERSON. Any of the following:
      (1)   A person who has received a certificate or temporary certificate as
a certified public accountant or who has registered as a public accountant
under R.C. Chapter 4701 and who holds an Ohio permit issued under that chapter;
      (2)   A person who holds a certificate of qualification to practice
architecture issued or renewed and registered under R.C. Chapter 4703;
      (3)   A person who is registered as a landscape architect under R.C.
Chapter 4703 or who holds a permit as a landscape architect issued under that
chapter;
      (4)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4707;
      (5)   A person who has been issued a barber’s license, barber
instructor’s license, assistant barber instructor’s license, or independent
contractor’s license under R.C. Chapter 4709;
      (6)   A person licensed and regulated to engage in the business of a debt
pooling company by a legislative authority, under authority of R.C. Chapter
4710;
      (7)   A person who has been issued a cosmetologist’s license, hair
designer’s license, manicurist’s license, esthetician’s license, natural hair
stylist’s license, advanced license to practice cosmetology, advanced license
to practice hair design, advanced license to practice manicuring, advanced
license to practice esthetics, advanced license to practice natural hair
styling, cosmetology instructor’s license, hair design instructor’s license,
manicurist instructor’s license, esthetics instructor’s license, natural hair
style instructor’s license, independent contractor’s license, or tanning
facility permit under R.C. Chapter 4713;
      (8)   A person who has been issued a license to practice dentistry, a
general anesthesia permit, a conscious sedation permit, a limited resident’s
license, a limited teaching license, a dental hygienist’s license, or a dental
hygienist’s teacher’s certificate under R.C. Chapter 4715;
      (9)   A person who has been issued an embalmer’s license, a funeral
director’s license, a funeral home license, or a crematory license, or who has
been registered for an embalmer’s or funeral director’s apprenticeship under
R.C. Chapter 4717;
      (10)   A person who has been licensed as a registered nurse or practical
nurse, or who has been issued a certificate for the practice of nurse-midwifery
under R.C. Chapter 4723;
      (11)   A person who has been licensed to practice optometry or to engage
in optical dispensing under R.C. Chapter 4725;
      (12)   A person licensed to act as a pawnbroker under R.C. Chapter 4727;
      (13)   A person licensed to act as a precious metals dealer under R.C.
Chapter 4728;
      (14)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 as a pharmacist or
pharmacy intern or registered under that chapter as a registered pharmacy
technician, certified pharmacy technician, or pharmacy technician trainee;
      (15)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 as a manufacturer of
dangerous drugs, outsourcing facility, third-party logistics provider,
repackager of dangerous drugs, wholesale distributor of dangerous drugs, or
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs;
      (16)   A person who is authorized to practice as a physician assistant
under R.C. Chapter 4730;
      (17)   A person who has been issued a license to practice medicine and
surgery, osteopathic medicine and surgery, or podiatric medicine and surgery
under R.C. Chapter 4731 or has been issued a certificate to practice a limited
branch of medicine under that chapter;
      (18)   A person licensed as a psychologist, independent school
psychologist, or school psychologist under R.C. Chapter 4732;
      (19)   A person registered to practice the profession of engineering or
surveying under R.C. Chapter 4733;
      (20)   A person who has been issued a license to practice chiropractic
under R.C. Chapter 4734;
      (21)   A person licensed to act as a real estate broker or real estate
salesperson under R.C. Chapter 4735;
      (22)   A person registered as a registered environmental health
specialist under R.C. Chapter 3776;
      (23)   A person licensed to operate or maintain a junkyard under R.C.
Chapter 4737;
      (24)   A person who has been issued a motor vehicle salvage dealer’s
license under R.C. Chapter 4738;
      (25)   A person who has been licensed to act as a steam engineer under
R.C. Chapter 4739;
      (26)   A person who has been issued a license or temporary permit to
practice veterinary medicine or any of its branches, or who is registered as a
graduate animal technician under R.C. Chapter 4741;
      (27)   A person who has been issued a hearing aid dealer’s or fitter’s
license or trainee permit under R.C. Chapter 4747;
      (28)   A person who has been issued a class A, class B, or class C
license or who has been registered as an investigator or security guard
employee under R.C. Chapter 4749;
      (29)   A person licensed to practice as a nursing home administrator
under R.C. Chapter 4751;
      (30)   A person licensed to practice as a speech-language pathologist or
audiologist under R.C. Chapter 4753;
      (31)   A person issued a license as an occupational therapist or physical
therapist under R.C. Chapter 4755;
      (32)   A person who is licensed as a licensed professional clinical
counselor, licensed professional counselor, social worker, independent social
worker, independent marriage and family therapist, or marriage and family
therapist, or registered as a social work assistant under R.C. Chapter 4757;
      (33)   A person issued a license to practice dietetics under R.C. Chapter
4759;
      (34)   A person who has been issued a license or limited permit to
practice respiratory therapy under R.C. Chapter 4761;
      (35)   A person who has been issued a real estate appraiser certificate
under R.C. Chapter 4763;
      (36)   A person who has been issued a home inspector license under R.C.
Chapter 4764;
      (37)   A person who has been admitted to the bar by order of the Ohio
Supreme Court in compliance with its prescribed and published rules.
      (38)   A person who has been issued a license to practice as a certified
mental health assistant under R.C. Chapter 4772.
   PUBLIC PREMISES. Any hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall, or other
place of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort.
   SALE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   SAMPLE DRUG. A drug or pharmaceutical preparation that would be hazardous to
health or safety if used without the supervision of a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs, or a drug of abuse, and that, at
one time, had been placed in a container plainly marked as a sample by a
manufacturer.
   SCHEDULE I, SCHEDULE II, SCHEDULE III, SCHEDULE IV or SCHEDULE V. Have the
same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   SCHOOL. Any school operated by a board of education, any community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314, or any nonpublic school for which the
Director of Education and Workforce prescribes minimum standards under R.C. §
3301.07, whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or
training provided by the school is being conducted at the time a criminal
offense is committed.
   SCHOOL BUILDING. Any building in which any of the instruction,
extracurricular activities, or training provided by a school is conducted,
whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or training
provided by the school is being conducted in the school building at the time a
criminal offense is committed.
   SCHOOL PREMISES. Either of the following:
      (1)   The parcel of real property on which any school is situated,
whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or training
provided by the school is being conducted on the premises at the time a
criminal offense is committed.
      (2)   Any other parcel of real property that is owned or leased by a
board of education of a school, the governing authority of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314, or the governing body of a nonpublic
school for which the Director of Education and Workforce prescribes minimum
standards under R.C. § 3301.07 and on which some of the instruction,
extracurricular activities, or training of the school is conducted, whether or
not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or training provided by the
school is being conducted on the parcel of real property at the time a criminal
offense is committed.
   STANDARD PHARMACEUTICAL REFERENCE MANUAL. The current edition, with
cumulative changes if any, of references that are approved by the State Board
of Pharmacy.
   SUBSTANCE ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER. Means an agency, association,
corporation or other legal entity, individual, or program that provides one or
more of the following at a facility:
      (1)   Either alcohol addiction services, or drug addiction services, or
both such services that are certified by the Ohio Director of Mental Health and
Addiction Services under R.C. § 5119.36;
      (2)   Recovery supports that are related to either alcohol addiction
services, or drug addiction services, or both such services and paid for with
federal, state, or local funds administered by the Ohio Department of Mental
Health and Addiction Services or a board of alcohol, drug addiction, and mental
health services.
   UNIT DOSE. An amount or unit or a compound, mixture, or preparation
containing a controlled substance that is separately identifiable and in a form
that indicates that it is the amount or unit by which the controlled substance
is separately administered to or taken by an individual.
   WHOLESALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
(R.C. § 2925.01)
§ 138.02 ADULT USE CANNABIS CONTROL; LIMITATIONS ON CONDUCT BY INDIVIDUALS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3780 and notwithstanding
any conflicting provision of this code or the Ohio Revised Code, an adult use
consumer, may do the following:
      (1)   Use adult use cannabis;
      (2)   Possess, transfer without remuneration to another adult consumer,
or transport adult use cannabis, subject to division (B) of this section; and
      (3)   Purchase adult use cannabis from an adult use dispensary per day in
amounts that do not exceed the possession limits set forth in division (B)(1)
of this section.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3796:
      (1)   The amount of cannabis that may be possessed by an adult use
consumer shall not exceed:
         (a)   Two and one-half ounces of adult use cannabis in any form except
adult use extract; and
         (b)   Fifteen grams of adult use cannabis in the form of adult use
extract.
      (2)   The amount of cannabis that may be transferred by an adult use
consumer without remuneration and not advertised or promoted to the public
shall not exceed:
         (a)   Two and one-half ounces of adult use cannabis in any form except
adult use extract; and
         (b)   Fifteen grams of adult use cannabis in the form of adult use
extract.
      (3)   The amount of cannabis that may be transported by an adult use
consumer shall not exceed:
         (a)   Two and one-half ounces of adult use cannabis in any form except
adult use extract; and
         (b)   Fifteen grams of adult use cannabis in the form of adult use
extract.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3780, an adult use
consumer shall not be subject to arrest, criminal prosecution, or civil penalty
for engaging in any of the activities authorized under R.C. Chapter 3780,
including:
      (1)   Obtaining, using, possessing, or transporting adult use cannabis;
      (2)   Performing conduct authorized under R.C. § 3780.29;
      (3)   Acquiring, possessing, using, purchasing, manufacturing, selling,
or transporting paraphernalia; and
      (4)   Assisting another adult use consumer, or allowing property to be
used, in any of the acts authorized by R.C. Chapter 3780.
   (D)   (1)   An individual is prohibited from operating a vehicle, motor
vehicle, streetcar, trackless trolley, bike, watercraft, or aircraft while
using adult use cannabis or while under the influence of adult use cannabis and
is subject to R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance
for any violation of this division.
      (2)   An individual is prohibited from smoking, vaporizing, or using any
other combustible adult use cannabis product while in a vehicle, motor vehicle,
streetcar, trackless trolley, bike, watercraft, or aircraft and is subject to
R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance for any
violation of this division.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3780, no individual under
21 years of age shall knowingly show or give false information concerning the
individual’s name, age, or other identification for the purpose of purchasing
adult use cannabis from an adult use dispensary licensed under R.C. Chapter
3780.
   (F)   Nothing in R.C. Chapter 3780 is intended to permit the transfer or
sale of adult use cannabis, with or without remuneration, to an individual
under 21 years of age, or to allow an individual under 21 years of age to
purchase, possess, use, process, transport, or cultivate cannabis except where
authorized by R.C. Chapter 3796.
   (G)   It is unlawful for any parent or guardian to knowingly permit their
residence, any other private property under their control, or any vehicle,
conveyance, or watercraft under their control to be used by an invitee of the
parent’s child or the guardian’s ward, if the invitee is under 21 years of age,
in a manner that constitutes a violation of R.C. Chapter 3780.
      (1)   A parent or guardian is deemed to have knowingly permitted their
residence, any other private property under their control, or any vehicle,
conveyance, or watercraft under their control to be used in violation of R.C.
Chapter 3780 if they knowingly authorize or permit consumption of cannabis by
underage invitees.
      (2)   Where the residence or other property has an owner and a tenant or
lessee, the trier of fact may infer that the residence or other property is
occupied only by the tenant or lessee.
(R.C. § 3780.36)
   (H)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3796, R.C. § 2925.11
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance shall apply when an adult use
consumer possesses an amount of cannabis greater than the limits set forth in
division (B)(1) of this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3780, an adult use
consumer who uses adult use cannabis in public areas, or who violates division
(D)(2) of this section as a passenger, is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   (a)   An individual under 21 years of age who knowingly shows or
gives false information concerning the individual’s name, age, or other
identification for the purpose of purchasing or otherwise obtaining adult use
cannabis from an adult use dispensary licensed under R.C. Chapter 3780 is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If, in committing a first
violation, the offender presented to an adult use dispensary licensed under
R.C. Chapter 3780 a false, fictitious, or altered identification card, a false
or fictitious driver’s license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver’s
license issued by any state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not less than $250 and not
more than $1,000, and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more
than six months.
         (b)   On a second violation in which, for the second time, the
offender presented to an adult use dispensary licensed under R.C. Chapter 3780
a false, fictitious, or altered identification card, a false or fictitious
driver’s license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver’s license issued
by any state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the first degree and shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $1,000,
and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than six months. The
court also may impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege from
the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7). The court, in lieu of suspending
the offender’s temporary instruction permit, probationary driver’s license, or
driver’s license, instead may order the offender to perform a determinate
number of hours of community service, with the court determining the actual
number of hours and the nature of the community service the offender shall
perform.
         (c)   On a third or subsequent violation in which, for the third or
subsequent time, the offender presented to an adult use dispensary licensed
under R.C. Chapter 3780 a false, fictitious, or altered identification card, a
false or fictitious driver’s license purportedly issued by any state, or a
driver’s license issued by any state that has been altered, the offender is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not less than
$500 nor more than $1,000, and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of
not more than six months. Except as provided in this division, the court also
may impose a class six suspension of the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6), and the court may order that the suspension
or denial remain in effect until the offender attains the age of 21 years. The
court, in lieu of suspending the offender’s temporary instruction permit,
probationary driver’s license, or driver’s license, instead may order the
offender to perform a determinate number of hours of community service, with
the court determining the actual number of hours and the nature of the
community service the offender shall perform.
      (4)   An individual who is under 21 years of age and who solicits another
individual to purchase adult use cannabis from an adult use dispensary licensed
under R.C. Chapter 3780 is guilty of:
         (a)   For a first violation, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; and
         (b)   For a second or subsequent violation, a misdemeanor of the
second degree.
      (5)   An employee or agent of an adult use dispensary licensed under R.C.
Chapter 3780 who knowingly sells cannabis to an individual under 21 years of
age is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (6)   Any individual who violates R.C. § 3780.10(A), or R.C. § 3780.29
(F), is guilty of the illegal trafficking in drugs under R.C. § 2925.03 and the
illegal manufacture of drugs under R.C. § 2925.04.
      (7)   Any individual who violates division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this
section guilty of the illegal trafficking in drugs under R.C. § 2925.03.
      (8)   Any individual who violates R.C. § 3780.20(B) is guilty of illegal
dispensing of drug samples under R.C. § 2925.36 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
      (9)   (a)   An individual who violates division (G) of this section is
guilty of:
            1.   For a first violation, a misdemeanor of the third degree; and
            2.   For a second or subsequent violation, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
         (b)   If a violation of division (G) of this section directly or
indirectly results in great bodily harm or death to any individual, the
individual violating division (G) is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 3780.99)
Statutory reference:
   Felony drug trafficking offenses, see R.C. § 2925.03(C)
§ 138.03 DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly obtain, possess, or use a controlled
substance or a controlled substance analog.
   (B)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   Manufacturers, licensed health professionals authorized to
prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, and other persons whose
conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731,
4741, and 4772.
         (b)   If the offense involves an anabolic steroid, any person who is
conducting or participating in a research project involving the use of an
anabolic steroid if the project has been approved by the United States Food and
Drug Administration.
         (c)   Any person who sells, offers for sale, prescribes, dispenses, or
administers for livestock or other nonhuman species an anabolic steroid that is
expressly intended for administration through implants to livestock or other
nonhuman species and approved for that purpose under the Federal Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act, and is sold, offered for sale, prescribed, dispensed, or
administered for that purpose in accordance with that Act.
         (d)   Any person who obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs if the prescription was issued for a legitimate medical purpose and not
altered, forged, or obtained through deception or commission of a theft
offense. As used in this division (B)(1)(d), “deception” and “theft offense”
have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      (2)   (a)   As used in division (B)(2) of this section:
            COMMUNITY ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 5119.01.
            COMMUNITY CONTROL SANCTION. Has the same meanings as in R.C. §
2929.01
            HEALTH CARE FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2919.16.
            MINOR DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSE. A violation of this section or R.C.
§ 2925.11 that is a misdemeanor or a felony of the fifth degree.
            PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
            POST-RELEASE CONTROL SANCTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2967.28.
            PUBLIC AGENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2930.01.
            QUALIFIED INDIVIDUAL. A person who is acting in good faith who
seeks or obtains medical assistance for another person who is experiencing a
drug overdose, a person who experiences a drug overdose and who seeks medical
assistance for that overdose, or a person who is the subject of another person
seeking or obtaining medical assistance for that overdose as described in
division (B)(2)(b) of this section.
            SEEK OR OBTAIN MEDICAL ASSISTANCE. Includes, but is not limited to
making a 9-1-1 call, contacting in person or by telephone call an on-duty peace
officer, or transporting or presenting a person to a health care facility.
         (b)   Subject to division (B)(2)(e) of this section, a qualified
individual shall not be arrested, charged, prosecuted, convicted, or penalized
pursuant to this chapter for a minor drug possession offense or a violation of
R.C. § 2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14(C)(1), or R.C. § 2925.141 if all of the
following apply:
            1.   The evidence of the obtaining, possession, or use of the
controlled substance or controlled substance analog, drug abuse instruments, or
drug paraphernalia that would be the basis of the offense was obtained as a
result of the qualified individual seeking the medical assistance or
experiencing an overdose and needing medical assistance.
            2.   Subject to division (B)(2)(f) of this section, within 30 days
after seeking or obtaining the medical assistance, the qualified individual
seeks and obtains a screening and receives a referral for treatment from a
community addiction services provider or a properly credentialed addiction
treatment professional.
            3.   Subject to division (B)(2)(f) of this section, the qualified
individual who obtains a screening and receives a referral for treatment under
division (B)(2)(b)2. of this section, upon the request of any prosecuting
attorney, submits documentation to the prosecuting attorney that verifies that
the qualified individual satisfied the requirements of that division. The
documentation shall be limited to the date and time of the screening obtained
and referral received.
         (c)   If a person who is serving a community control sanction or is
under a sanction on post-release control acts pursuant to division (B)(2)(b) of
this section, then R.C. § 2929.141(B), R.C. § 2929.15(B)(2), R.C. § 2929.25(D)
(3), or R.C. § 2967.28(F)(3) applies to the person with respect to any
violation of the sanction or post-release control sanction based on a minor
drug possession offense, as defined in R.C. § 2925.11, or a violation of R.C. §
2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14(C)(1), or R.C. § 2925.141.
         (d)   Nothing in division (B)(2)(b) of this section shall be construed
to do any of the following:
            1.   Limit the admissibility of any evidence in connection with the
investigation or prosecution of a crime with regards to a defendant who does
not qualify for the protections of division (B)(2)(b) of this section or with
regards to any crime other than a minor drug possession offense or a violation
of R.C. § 2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14(C)(1), or R.C. § 2925.141 committed by a
person who qualifies for protection pursuant to division (B)(2)(b) of this
section;
            2.   Limit any seizure of evidence or contraband otherwise
permitted by law;
            3.   Limit or abridge the authority of a peace officer to detain or
take into custody a person in the course of an investigation or to effectuate
an arrest for any offense except as provided in that division;
            4.   Limit, modify, or remove any immunity from liability available
pursuant to law in effect prior to September 13, 2016 to any public agency or
to an employee of any public agency.
         (e)   Division (B)(2)(b) of this section does not apply to any person
who twice previously has been granted an immunity under division (B)(2)(b) of
this section. No person shall be granted an immunity under division (B)(2)(b)
of this section more than two times.
         (f)   Nothing in this section shall compel any qualified individual to
disclose protected health information in a way that conflicts with the
requirements of the "Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of
1996", 104 Pub. L. No. 191, 110 Stat. 2021, 42 U.S.C. §§ 1320d et seq., as
amended, and regulations promulgated by the United States Department of Health
and Human Services to implement the act or the requirements of 42 C.F.R. Part
2.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of one of the
following:
      (1)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule I or Schedule II, with the
exception of marihuana or hashish, whoever violates division (A) of this
section is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V,
whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of possession of drugs.
The penalty for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2)(b) of this
section, possession of drugs is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the
offender previously has been convicted of a drug abuse offense, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (b)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds the bulk
amount, possession of drugs is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the violation is marihuana or a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance containing marihuana other than hashish,
whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of possession of
marihuana. The penalty for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3)(b) or (C)(3)(c)
of this section, possession of marihuana is a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds 100 grams
but is less than 200 grams, possession of marihuana is a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
         (c)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds 200 grams,
possession of marihuana is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (4)   If the drug involved in the violation is hashish or a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance containing hashish, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of possession of hashish. The penalty
for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(4)(b) or (C)(4)(c)
of this section, possession of hashish is a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds five grams
but is less than ten grams of hashish in a solid form or equals or exceeds one
gram but is less than two grams of hashish in a liquid concentrate, liquid
extract, or liquid distillate form, possession of hashish is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
         (c)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds ten grams
of hashish in a solid form or equals or exceeds two grams of hashish in a
liquid concentrate, liquid extract, or liquid distillate form, possession of
hashish is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is a combination of a fentanyl-related compound
and marihuana, one of the following applies:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(5)(b) of this
section, the offender is guilty of possession of marihuana and shall be
punished as provided in division (C)(3) of this section. Except as otherwise
provided in division (C)(5)(b) of this section, the offender is not guilty of
possession of a fentanyl-related compound under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) and shall
not be charged with, convicted of, or punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) for
possession of a fentanyl- related compound.
         (b)   If the offender knows or has reason to know that the compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is the drug involved contains a
fentanyl-related compound, the offender is guilty of possession of a fentanyl-
related compound and shall be punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11).
      (6)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is a combination of a fentanyl-related compound
and any Schedule III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V controlled substance that is
not a fentanyl-related compound, one of the following applies:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(6)(b) of this
section, the offender is guilty of possession of drugs and shall be punished as
provided in division (C)(2) of this section. Except as otherwise provided in
division (C)(6)(b) of this section, the offender is not guilty of possession of
a fentanyl-related compound under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) and shall not be
charged with, convicted of, or punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) for
possession of a fentanyl-related compound.
         (b)   If the offender knows or has reason to know that the compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is the drug involved contains a
fentanyl-related compound, the offender is guilty of possession of a fentanyl-
related compound and shall be punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11).
   (D)   Arrest or conviction for a minor misdemeanor violation of this section
does not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries about the person’s criminal
record, including any inquiries contained in any application for employment,
license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s
appearance as a witness.
   (E)   In addition to any prison term or jail term authorized or required by
division (C) of this section and R.C. §§ 2929.13, 2929.14, 2929.22, 2929.24,
and 2929.25, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and in
addition to any other sanction that is imposed for the offense under this
section, R.C. §§ 2929.11 through 2929.18, or R.C. §§ 2929.21 through 2929.28,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, if applicable, the court
shall also do the following:
      (1)   If the offender is a professionally licensed person, in addition to
any other sanction imposed for a violation of this section, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
      (2)   If the offender has a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit, R.C. § 2929.33 applies.
   (F)   (1)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
      (2)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (F) of this section, the
sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.11)
Statutory reference:
   Felony drug possession offenses, see R.C. § 2925.11(C)
§ 138.04 POSSESSING DRUG ABUSE INSTRUMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make, obtain, possess, or use any
instrument, article, or thing the customary and primary purpose of which is for
the administration or use of a dangerous drug, other than marihuana, when the
instrument involved is a hypodermic or syringe, whether or not of crude or
extemporized manufacture or assembly, and the instrument, article, or thing
involved has been used by the offender to unlawfully administer or use a
dangerous drug, other than marihuana, or to prepare a dangerous drug, other
than marihuana, for unlawful administration or use.
   (B)   (1)   This section does not apply to manufacturers, licensed health
professionals authorized to prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies,
and other persons whose conduct was in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719,
4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, 4741, and 4772.
      (2)   Division (B)(2) of R.C. § 2925.11 applies with respect to a
violation of this section when a person seeks or obtains medical assistance for
another person who is experiencing a drug overdose, a person experiences a drug
overdose and seeks medical assistance for that overdose, or a person is the
subject of another person seeking or obtaining medical assistance for that
overdose.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possessing drug abuse
instruments, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a drug abuse offense, violation of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   (1)   If the offender is a professionally licensed person, in addition
to any other sanction imposed for a violation of this section, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
      (2)   If the offender has a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit, R.C. § 2929.33 applies.
      (3)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         (b)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (D)(3) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.12)
§ 138.05 PERMITTING DRUG ABUSE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner, operator, or person in charge of a
locomotive, watercraft, aircraft, or other vehicle, as defined in R.C. §
4501.01, shall knowingly permit the vehicle to be used for the commission of a
felony drug abuse offense.
   (B)   No person, who is the owner, lessee, or occupant, or who has custody,
control, or supervision of premises, or real estate, including vacant land,
shall knowingly permit his or her premises, or real estate, including vacant
land, to be used for the commission of a felony drug abuse offense by another
person.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of permitting drug abuse.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, permitting
drug abuse is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Permitting drug abuse is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the felony drug abuse offense in question is a
violation of R.C. § 2925.02, 2925.03, or 2925.04, or if the felony drug abuse
offense in question is a violation of R.C. § 2925.041 and the offender had
actual knowledge, at the time the offender permitted the vehicle, premises, or
real estate to be used as described in division (A) or (B) of this section,
that the person who assembled or possessed the chemicals in question in
violation of R.C. § 2925.041 had assembled or possessed them with the intent to
manufacture a controlled substance in Schedule I or Schedule II in violation of
R.C. § 2925.04.
   (D)   (1)   If the offender is a professionally licensed person, in addition
to any other sanction imposed for a violation of this section, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
      (2)   If the offender has a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit, R.C. § 2929.33 applies.
      (3)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016, may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
similar municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States that
arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         (b)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (D)(3) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of R.C. § 3719.21, the clerk of
the court shall pay a fine imposed for a violation of this section pursuant to
R.C. § 2929.18(A) in accordance with and subject to the requirements of R.C. §
2925.03(F). The agency that receives the fine shall use the fine as specified
in R.C. § 2925.03(F).
   (F)   Any premises or real estate that is permitted to be used in violation
of division (B) of this section constitutes a nuisance subject to abatement
pursuant to R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2925.13)
§ 138.06 ILLEGAL CULTIVATION OF MARIHUANA.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cultivate marihuana.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any person listed in R.C. § 2925.03(B)
(1), (B)(2) or (B)(3), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, to
the extent and under the circumstances described in that division.
   (C)   Whoever commits a violation of division (A) of this section is guilty
of illegal cultivation of marihuana.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in the following divisions, illegal
cultivation of marihuana is a minor misdemeanor or, if the offense was
committed in the vicinity of a school or in the vicinity of a juvenile, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   If the amount of marihuana involved equals or exceeds 100 grams but
is less than 200 grams, illegal cultivation of marihuana is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree or, if the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school
or in the vicinity of a juvenile, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (3)   If the amount of marihuana involved equals or exceeds 200 grams,
illegal cultivation of marihuana is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (D)   Arrest or conviction for a minor misdemeanor violation of this section
does not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries about the person's criminal
record, including any inquiries contained in any application for employment,
license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection with the person's
appearance as a witness.
(R.C. § 2925.04(A), (B), (C)(5), (G))
Statutory reference:
   Illegal manufacturing of controlled substances, felony, see R.C. § 2925.04
   Sale or use of drugs not approved by Food and Drug Administration, felony,
see R.C. § 2925.09
§ 138.07 ABUSING HARMFUL INTOXICANTS.
   (A)   Except for lawful research, clinical, medical, dental, or veterinary
purposes, no person, with purpose to induce intoxication or similar
physiological effects, shall obtain, possess, or use a harmful intoxicant.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of abusing harmful
intoxicants, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a drug abuse offense, abusing harmful intoxicants is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   (1)   If the offender is a professionally licensed person, in addition
to any other sanction imposed for a violation of this section, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
      (2)   If the offender has a driver's or commercial driver's license or
permit, R.C. § 2929.33 applies.
      (3)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to the September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         (b)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (C)(3) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.31)
§ 138.08 ILLEGAL DISPENSING OF DRUG SAMPLES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly furnish a sample drug to another person.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to manufacturers,
wholesalers, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, licensed health professionals
authorized to prescribe drugs, and other persons whose conduct is in accordance
with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4725, 4729, 4730, 4731, 4741, and 4772.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal dispensing of
drug samples.
      (2)   If the drug involved in the offense is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule I or Schedule II, with the
exception of marihuana, illegal dispensing of drug samples is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the offense is a dangerous drug or a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance included in Schedule III, Schedule
IV or Schedule V, or is marihuana, the penalty for the offense shall be
determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in the following division, illegal
dispensing of drug samples is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
         (b)   If the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school or in
the vicinity of a juvenile, illegal dispensing of drug samples is a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
   (D)   (1)   If the offender is a professionally licensed person, in addition
to any other sanction imposed for a violation of this section, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
      (2)   If the offender has a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit, R.C. § 2929.33 applies.
      (3)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016, may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
similar municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States that
arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         (b)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (D)(3) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of R.C. § 3719.21, the clerk of
the court shall pay a fine imposed for a violation of this section pursuant to
R.C. § 2929.18(A) in accordance with and subject to the requirements of R.C. §
2925.03(F). The agency that receives the fine shall use the fine as specified
in R.C. § 2925.03(F).
(R.C. § 2925.36(A) - (D), (F))
Statutory reference:
   Felony offenses, see R.C. § 2925.36(C)(2)
§ 138.09 FEDERAL PROSECUTION BAR TO MUNICIPAL PROSECUTION.
   No person shall be prosecuted for a violation of this chapter if the person
has been acquitted or convicted under the federal drug abuse control laws of
the same act or omission which, it is alleged, constitutes a violation of this
chapter.
(R.C. §§ 2925.50, 3719.19)
§ 138.10 NITROUS OXIDE: IMPROPER DISPENSING OR DISTRIBUTION; POSSESSION IN A
MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   Improper dispensing or distribution.
      (1)   No person who dispenses or distributes nitrous oxide in cartridges
shall fail to comply with either of the following:
         (a)   The record-keeping requirements established under division (A)
(3) of this section.
         (b)   The labeling and transaction identification requirements
established under division (A)(4) of this section.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(1)(a) or (A)(1)(b) of this section is
guilty of improperly dispensing or distributing nitrous oxide, a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
      (3)   Beginning July 1, 2001, a person who dispenses or distributes
nitrous oxide shall record each transaction involving the dispensing or
distribution of the nitrous oxide on a separate card. The person shall require
the purchaser to sign the card and provide a complete residence address. The
person dispensing or distributing the nitrous oxide shall sign and date the
card. The person shall retain the card recording a transaction for one year
from the date of the transaction. The person shall maintain the cards at the
person's business address and make them available during normal business hours
for inspection and copying by officers or employees of the State Board of
Pharmacy or of other law enforcement agencies that are authorized to
investigate violations of this code, R.C. Chapters 2925, 3719, or 4729, or
federal drug abuse control laws. The cards used to record each transaction
shall inform the purchaser of the following:
         (a)   That nitrous oxide cartridges are to be used only for purposes
of preparing food;
         (b)   That inhalation of nitrous oxide can have dangerous health
effects; and
         (c)   That it is a violation of state law to distribute or dispense
cartridges of nitrous oxide to any person under age 21, punishable as a felony
of the fifth degree.
      (4)   (a)   Each cartridge of nitrous oxide dispensed or distributed in
this municipality shall bear the following printed warning: “Nitrous oxide
cartridges are to be used only for purposes of preparing food. Nitrous oxide
cartridges may not be sold to persons under age 21. Do not inhale contents.
Misuse can be dangerous to your health.”
         (b)   Each time a person dispenses or distributes one or more
cartridges of nitrous oxide, the person shall mark the packaging containing the
cartridges with a label or other device that identifies the person who
dispensed or distributed the nitrous oxide and the person's business address.
(R.C. § 2925.32(B)(4), (D)(2), (F), (G))
   (B)   Possession in a motor vehicle.
      (1)   As used in this section, MOTOR VEHICLE, STREET, and HIGHWAY have
the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      (2)   Unless authorized by this code or by state law, no person shall
possess an open cartridge of nitrous oxide in either of the following
circumstances:
         (a)   While operating or being a passenger in or on a motor vehicle on
a street, highway, or other public or private property open to the public for
purposes of vehicular traffic or parking.
         (b)   While being in or on a stationary motor vehicle on a street,
highway, or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular traffic or parking.
      (3)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of possessing nitrous
oxide in a motor vehicle, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (4)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for
possessing nitrous oxide in a motor vehicle, the court may suspend for not more
than five years the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit.
(R.C. § 2925.33)
Statutory reference:
   Trafficking in harmful intoxicants, see R.C. § 2925.32
§ 138.11 LABORATORY REPORT REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   In any criminal prosecution for a violation of this chapter or
R.C. Chapters 2925 or 3719, a laboratory report from the Bureau of Criminal
Identification and Investigation or a laboratory operated by another law
enforcement agency, or a laboratory established by or under the authority of an
institution of higher education that has its main campus in this state and that
is accredited by the Association of American Universities or the North Central
Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools, primarily for the purpose of
providing scientific service to law enforcement agencies, and signed by the
person performing the analysis, stating that the substance that is the basis of
the alleged offense has been weighed and analyzed and stating the findings as
to the content, weight, and identity of the substance and that it contains any
amount of a controlled substance and the number and description of unit
dosages, is prima facie evidence of the content, identity, and weight or the
existence and number of unit dosages of the substance. In any criminal
prosecution for a violation of R.C. § 2925.041 or a violation of this chapter,
R.C. Chapter 2925 or R.C. Chapter 3719 that is based on the possession of
chemicals sufficient to produce a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance
included in Schedule I, II, III, IV, or V, a laboratory report from the Bureau
or from any laboratory that is operated or established as described in this
division that is signed by the person performing the analysis, stating that the
substances that are the basis of the alleged offense have been weighed and
analyzed and stating the findings as to the content, weight, and identity of
each of the substances, is prima facie evidence of the content, identity, and
weight of the substances.
      (2)   Attached to that report shall be a copy of a notarized statement by
the signer of the report giving the name of the signer and stating that the
signer is an employee of the laboratory issuing the report and that performing
the analysis is a part of the signer’s regular duties, and giving an outline of
the signer’s education, training, and experience for performing an analysis of
materials included under this section. The signer shall attest that
scientifically accepted tests were performed with due caution, and that the
evidence was handled in accordance with established and accepted procedures
while in the custody of the laboratory.
   (B)   The prosecuting attorney shall serve a copy of the report on the
attorney of record for the accused, or on the accused if the accused has no
attorney, prior to any proceeding in which the report is to be used against the
accused other than at a preliminary hearing or grand jury proceeding where the
report may be used without having been previously served upon the accused.
   (C)   The report shall not be prima facie evidence of the contents,
identity, and weight or the existence and number of unit dosages of the
substance if the accused or the accused’s attorney demands the testimony of the
person signing the report, by serving the demand upon the prosecuting attorney,
within seven days from the accused or the accused’s attorney's receipt of the
report. The time may be extended by a trial judge in the interests of justice.
   (D)   Any report issued for use under this section shall contain notice of
the right of the accused to demand, and the manner in which the accused shall
demand, the testimony of the person signing the report.
   (E)   Any person who is accused of a violation of this chapter or R.C.
Chapters 2925 or 3719 is entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting
attorney, to have a portion of the substance that is, or of each of the
substances that are, the basis of the alleged violation preserved for the
benefit of independent analysis performed by a laboratory analyst employed by
the accused person, or, if the accused is indigent, by a qualified laboratory
analyst appointed by the court. Such portion shall be a representative sample
of the entire substance that is, or of each of the substances that are, the
basis of the alleged violation and shall be of sufficient size, in the opinion
of the court, to permit the accused's analyst to make a thorough scientific
analysis concerning the identity of the substance or substances. The
prosecuting attorney shall provide the accused's analyst with the sample
portion at least 14 days prior to trial, unless the trial is to be held in a
court not of record or unless the accused person is charged with a minor
misdemeanor, in which case the prosecuting attorney shall provide the accused's
analyst with the sample portion at least three days prior to trial. If the
prosecuting attorney determines that such a sample portion cannot be preserved
and given to the accused's analyst, the prosecuting attorney shall so inform
the accused person, or the accused’s attorney. In such a circumstance, the
accused person is entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting
attorney, to have the accused’s privately employed or court appointed analyst
present at an analysis of the substance that is, or the substances that are,
the basis of the alleged violation, and, upon further written request, to
receive copies of all recorded scientific data that result from the analysis
and that can be used by an analyst in arriving at conclusions, findings, or
opinions concerning the identity of the substance or substances subject to the
analysis.
   (F)   In addition to the rights provided under division (E) of this section,
any person who is accused of a violation of this chapter or R.C. Chapters 2925
or 3719 that involves a bulk amount of a controlled substance, or any multiple
thereof, or who is accused of a violation of R.C. § 2925.11 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, other than a minor misdemeanor violation, that
involves marihuana, is entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting
attorney, to have a laboratory analyst of the accused’s choice, or, if the
accused is indigent, a qualified laboratory analyst appointed by the court,
present at a measurement or weighing of the substance that is the basis of the
alleged violation. Also, the accused person is entitled, upon further written
request, to receive copies of all recorded scientific data that result from the
measurement or weighing and that can be used by an analyst in arriving at
conclusions, findings, or opinions concerning the weight, volume, or number of
unit doses of the substance subject to the measurement or weighing.
(R.C. § 2925.51)
   (G)   In addition to the financial sanctions authorized or required under
R.C. §§ 2929.18 and 2929.28 and to any costs otherwise authorized or required
under any provision of law, the court imposing sentence upon an offender who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a drug abuse offense may order the offender to
pay to the state, municipal, or county law enforcement agencies that handled
the investigation and prosecution all of the costs that the state, municipal
corporation, or county reasonably incurred in having tests performed under this
section or R.C. § 2925.51 or in any other manner on any substance that was the
basis of, or involved in, the offense to determine whether the substance
contained any amount of a controlled substance if the results of the tests
indicate that the substance tested contained any controlled substance. No court
shall order an offender under this section to pay the costs of tests performed
on a substance if the results of the tests do not indicate that the substance
tested contained any controlled substance. The court shall hold a hearing to
determine the amount of costs to be imposed under this section. The court may
hold the hearing as part of the sentencing hearing for the offender.
(R.C. § 2925.511)
§ 138.12 COUNTERFEIT CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly possess any counterfeit controlled
substance.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section shall be guilty of
possession of counterfeit controlled substances, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 2925.37(A), (G), (M))
Statutory reference:
   Trafficking and other felony counterfeit controlled substance offenses, see
R.C. § 2925.37(H) through (M)
§ 138.13 USE, POSSESSION, OR SALE OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   As used in this section, DRUG PARAPHERNALIA means any equipment,
product, or material of any kind that is used by the offender, intended by the
offender for use, or designed for use, in propagating, cultivating, growing,
harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing,
preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing,
concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the
human body, a controlled substance in violation of this chapter. DRUG
PARAPHERNALIA includes, but is not limited to, any of the following equipment,
products, or materials that are used by the offender, intended by the offender
for use, or designed by the offender for use, in any of the following manners:
      (1)   A kit for propagating, cultivating, growing, or harvesting any
species of a plant that is a controlled substance or from which a controlled
substance can be derived.
      (2)   A kit for manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing,
processing, or preparing a controlled substance.
      (3)   Any object, instrument, or device for manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing, or preparing methamphetamine.
      (4)   An isomerization device for increasing the potency of any species
of a plant that is a controlled substance.
      (5)   Testing equipment for identifying, or analyzing the strength,
effectiveness, or purity of, a controlled substance, except for those exempted
in division (D)(4) of this section.
      (6)   A scale or balance for weighing or measuring a controlled
substance.
      (7)   A diluent or adulterant, such as quinine hydrochloride, mannitol,
mannite, dextrose, or lactose, for cutting a controlled substance.
      (8)   A separation gin or sifter for removing twigs and seeds from, or
otherwise cleaning or refining, marihuana.
      (9)   A blender, bowl, container, spoon, or mixing device for compounding
a controlled substance.
      (10)   A capsule, balloon, envelope, or container for packaging small
quantities of a controlled substance.
      (11)   A container or device for storing or concealing a controlled
substance.
      (12)   A hypodermic syringe, needle, or instrument for parenterally
injecting a controlled substance into the human body.
      (13)   An object, instrument, or device for ingesting, inhaling, or
otherwise introducing into the human body, marihuana, cocaine, hashish, or
hashish oil, such as a metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or
ceramic pipe, with or without a screen, permanent screen, hashish head, or
punctured metal bowl; water pipe; carburetion tube or device; smoking or
carburetion mask; roach clip or similar object used to hold burning material,
such as a marihuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be
held in the hand; miniature cocaine spoon, or cocaine vial; chamber pipe;
carburetor pipe; electric pipe; air driver pipe; chillum; bong; or ice pipe or
chiller.
   (B)   In determining if any equipment, product, or material is drug
paraphernalia, a court or law enforcement officer shall consider, in addition
to other relevant factors, the following:
      (1)   Any statement by the owner or by anyone in control of the
equipment, product, or material, concerning its use.
      (2)   The proximity in time or space of the equipment, product, or
material, or of the act relating to the equipment, product, or material, to a
violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2925.
      (3)   The proximity of the equipment, product, or material to any
controlled substance.
      (4)   The existence of any residue of a controlled substance on the
equipment, product, or material.
      (5)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of the owner, or of
anyone in control, of the equipment, product, or material, to deliver it to any
person whom he or she knows intends to use the equipment, product, or material
to facilitate a violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter
2925. A finding that the owner or anyone in control of the equipment, product,
or material is not guilty of a violation of any other provision of this chapter
or R.C. Chapter 2925 does not prevent a finding that the equipment, product, or
material was intended or designed by the offender for use as drug
paraphernalia.
      (6)   Any oral or written instruction provided with the equipment,
product, or material concerning its use.
      (7)   Any descriptive material accompanying the equipment, product, or
material and explaining or depicting its use.
      (8)   National or local advertising concerning the use of the equipment,
product, or material.
      (9)   The manner and circumstances in which the equipment, product, or
material is displayed for sale.
      (10)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of the sales of the
equipment, product, or material to the total sales of the business enterprise.
      (11)   The existence and scope of legitimate uses of the equipment,
product, or material in the community.
      (12)   Expert testimony concerning the use of the equipment, product, or
material.
   (C)   (1)   Subject to divisions (D)(2), (D)(3), and (D)(4) of this section,
no person shall knowingly use, or possess with purpose to use, drug
paraphernalia.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly sell, or possess or manufacture with
purpose to sell, drug paraphernalia, if he or she knows or reasonably should
know that the equipment, product, or material will be used as drug
paraphernalia.
      (3)   No person shall place an advertisement in any newspaper, magazine,
handbill, or other publication that is published and printed and circulates
primarily within this state, if he or she knows that the purpose of the
advertisement is to promote the illegal sale in this municipality or in this
state of the equipment, product, or material that the offender intended or
designed for use as drug paraphernalia.
   (D)   (1)   This section does not apply to manufacturers, licensed health
professionals authorized to prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies,
and other persons whose conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715,
4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, 4741, and 4772. This section shall not be construed to
prohibit the possession or use of a hypodermic as authorized by R.C. §
3719.172.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to a person’s use,
or possession with purpose to use, any drug paraphernalia that is equipment, a
product, or material of any kind that is used by the person, intended by the
person for use, or designed for use in storing, containing, concealing,
injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the human body
marihuana.
      (3)   Division (B)(2) of R.C. § 2925.11 applies with respect to a
violation of division (C)(1) of this section when a person seeks or obtains
medical assistance for another person who is experiencing a drug overdose, a
person experiences a drug overdose and seeks medical assistance for that
overdose, or a person is the subject of another person seeking or obtaining
medical assistance for that overdose.
      (4)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to a person's use,
or possession with purpose to use, any drug testing strips to determine the
presence of fentanyl or a fentanyl-related compound.
   (E)   Notwithstanding R.C. Chapter 2981, any drug paraphernalia that was
used, possessed, sold, or manufactured in violation of this section shall be
seized, after a conviction for that violation, shall be forfeited, and upon
forfeiture shall be disposed of pursuant to R.C. § 2981.12(B).
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (C)(1) of this section is guilty of
illegal use or possession of drug paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (F)(3) of this section, whoever
violates division (C)(2) of this section is guilty of dealing in drug
paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C)(2) of this section by selling drug
paraphernalia to a juvenile is guilty of selling drug paraphernalia to
juveniles, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (C)(3) of this section is guilty of
illegal advertising of drug paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (G)   (1)   If the offender is a professionally licensed person, in addition
to any other sanction imposed for a violation of this section, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
      (2)   If the offender has a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit, R.C. § 2929.33.
      (3)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         (b)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (G)(3) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.14)
   (H)   Illegal use or possession of marihuana drug paraphernalia.
      (1)   As used in this division (H), DRUG PARAPHERNALIA has the same
meaning as in division (A) of this section.
      (2)   In determining if any equipment, product, or material is drug
paraphernalia, a court or law enforcement officer shall consider, in addition
to other relevant factors, all factors identified in division (B) of this
section.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly use, or possess with purpose to use, any
drug paraphernalia that is equipment, a product, or material of any kind that
is used by the person, intended by the person for use, or designed for use in
storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise
introducing into the human body marihuana.
      (4)   This division (H) does not apply to any person identified in
division (D)(1) of this section, and it shall not be construed to prohibit the
possession or use of a hypodermic as authorized by R.C. § 3719.172.
      (5)   (a)   Division (E) of this section applies with respect to any drug
paraphernalia that was used or possessed in violation of division (H) of this
section.
         (b)   Division (B)(2) of R.C. § 2925.11 applies with respect to a
violation of this division (H) when a person seeks or obtains medical
assistance for another person who is experiencing a drug overdose, a person
experiences a drug overdose and seeks medical assistance for that overdose, or
a person is the subject of another person seeking or obtaining medical
assistance for that overdose.
      (6)   (a)   Whoever violates division (H)(3) of this section is guilty of
illegal use or possession of marihuana drug paraphernalia, a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   Arrest or conviction for a violation of division (H)(3) of this
section does not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the
person so arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries about the person's
criminal record, including any inquiries contained in any application for
employment, license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection with
the person's appearance as a witness.
      (7)   (a)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender
for a violation of division (H) of this section, the court shall do the
following, if applicable:
            1.   If the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a
violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially similar municipal ordinance or
the law of another state or the United States arising out of the same set of
circumstances as the violation, the court shall suspend the offender's driver's
or commercial driver's license or permit for not more than five years.
            2.   If the offender is a professionally licensed person, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
         (b)   1.   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under division (H)
of this section prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the
sentencing court requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an
offender who pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another
state or the United States that arose out of the same set of circumstances as
the violation for which the offender’s license or permit was suspended under
division (H) of this section shall not file such a motion.
            2.   Upon the filing of a motion under division (H)(7)(b) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.141)
§ 138.131 ILLEGAL USE OR POSSESSION OF MARIJUANA DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   As used in this section, DRUG PARAPHERNALIA has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2925.14.
   (B)   In determining if any equipment, product, or material is drug
paraphernalia, a court or law enforcement officer shall consider, in addition
to other relevant factors, all factors identified in division (B) of R.C. §
2925.14.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly use, or possess with purpose to use, any
drug paraphernalia that is equipment, a product, or material of any kind that
is used by the person, intended by the person for use, or designed for use in
storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise
introducing into the human body marijuana.
   (D)   This section does not apply to any person identified in division (D)
(1) of R.C. § 2925.14, and it shall not be construed to prohibit the possession
or use of a hypodermic as authorized by R.C. § 3719.172.
   (E)   Division (E) of R.C. § 2925.14 applies with respect to any drug
paraphernalia that was used or possessed in violation of this section.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of illegal use
or possession of marijuana drug paraphernalia, a minor misdemeanor.
   (G)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court shall suspend for not less than six months
or more than five years the offender's driver's or commercial driver's license
or permit. If the offender is a professionally licensed person, in addition to
any other sanction imposed for a violation of this section, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
(Ord. 2013-15, passed 2-20-13)
§ 138.14 CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE OR PRESCRIPTION LABELS.
   (A)   Whenever a manufacturer sells a controlled substance, and whenever a
wholesaler, repackager, or outsourcing facility sells a controlled substance in
a package the wholesaler, repackager, or outsourcing facility has prepared, the
manufacturer or the wholesaler, repackager, or outsourcing facility, as the
case may be, shall securely affix to each package in which the controlled
substance is contained a label showing in legible English the name and address
of the vendor and the quantity, kind, and form of controlled substance
contained therein. No person, except a pharmacist for the purpose of dispensing
a controlled substance upon a prescription shall alter, deface, or remove any
label so affixed. As used in this division, “repackager” and “outsourcing
facility” have the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   (B)   No person shall alter, deface or remove any label affixed pursuant to
R.C. § 3719.08 as long as any of the original contents remain.
(R.C. § 3719.08(A), (E))
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this
section, or R.C. § 3719.07 or 3719.08, or a drug abuse offense, a violation of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the
violation involves the sale, offer to sell, or possession of a Schedule I or II
controlled substance, with the exception of marihuana, and if the offender, as
a result of the violation, is a major drug offender, then R.C. § 3719.99(D)
applies.
(R.C. § 3719.99(C))
§ 138.15 POSSESSION, SALE AND DISPOSAL OF HYPODERMICS.
   (A)   Possession of a hypodermic is authorized for the following:
      (1)   A manufacturer or distributor of, or dealer in hypodermics, or
medication packaged in hypodermics, and any authorized agent of employee of
that manufacturer, distributor or dealer, in the regular course of business;
      (2)   A terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, in the regular course of
business;
      (3)   A person authorized to administer injections, in the regular course
of the person's profession or employment;
      (4)   A person, when the hypodermic in his possession was lawfully
obtained and is kept and used for the purpose of self-administration of insulin
or other drug prescribed for the treatment of disease by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs;
      (5)   A person whose use of a hypodermic is for legal research, clinical,
educational or medicinal purposes;
      (6)   A farmer, for the lawful administration of a drug to an animal;
      (7)   A person whose use of a hypodermic is for lawful professional,
mechanical, trade or craft purposes.
   (B)   No manufacturer or distributor of, or dealer in, hypodermics or
medication packaged in hypodermics, or their authorized agents or employees,
and no terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, shall display any hypodermic
for sale. No person authorized to possess a hypodermic pursuant to division (A)
of this section shall negligently fail to take reasonable precautions to
prevent any hypodermic in the person's possession from theft or acquisition by
any unauthorized person.
(R.C. § 3719.172(A), (B))
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of a violation of division (B) of this section, R.C. § 3719.05, 3719.06,
3719.13, 3719.172(B), or 3719.31, or a drug abuse offense, a violation of
division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 3719.99(E))
Statutory reference:
   Felony offenses, see R.C. § 3719.172(C) and (D)
§ 138.16 CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE SCHEDULES.
   Controlled Substance Schedules I, II, III, IV, and V, as established in R.C.
§ 3719.41 and amended by R.C. §§ 3719.43 and 3719.44, are hereby adopted by
reference, and shall be treated as if set forth in full herein.
§ 138.17 UNLAWFUL FURNISHING OF PRESCRIPTION TO ENABLE PERSONS TO BE ISSUED
HANDICAPPED PARKING PLACARDS OR LICENSE PLATES.
   (A)   No physician or chiropractor shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Furnish a person with a prescription in order to enable the person
to be issued a standard removable windshield placard, temporary removable
windshield placard, permanent removable windshield placard, or license plates
under R.C. § 4503.44, knowing that the person does not meet any of the criteria
contained in R.C. § 4503.44(A)(1).
      (2)   Furnish a person with a prescription described in division (A)(1)
of this section and knowingly misstate on the prescription the length of time
the physician or chiropractor expects the person to have the disability that
limits or impairs the person's ability to walk in order to enable the person to
retain a placard issued under R.C. § 4503.44 for a period of time longer than
that which would be estimated by a similar practitioner under the same or
similar circumstances.
(R.C. §§ 4731.481, 4734.161)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. §§ 4731.99(F), 4734.99(B))
Cross-reference:
   Parking privileges for persons with disabilities, see §
76.05
§ 138.18 PSEUDOEPHEDRINE SALES.
   (A)   Unlawful purchases.
      (1)   As used in divisions (A), (B), (C) and (D) of this section:
         CONSUMER PRODUCT. Any food or drink that is consumed or used by humans
and any drug, including a drug that may be provided legally only pursuant to a
prescription, that is intended to be consumed or used by humans.
         EPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of ephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or salts
of optical isomers.
         EPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains ephedrine.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of pseudoephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or
salts of optical isomers.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains
pseudoephedrine.
         RETAILER. A place of business that offers consumer products for sale
to the general public.
         SINGLE-INGREDIENT PREPARATION. A compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that contains a single active ingredient.
         TERMINAL DISTRIBUTOR OF DANGEROUS DRUGS. Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 4729.01.
      (2)   (a)   1.   No individual shall knowingly purchase, receive, or
otherwise acquire an amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
that is greater than either of the following unless the pseudoephedrine product
or ephedrine product is dispensed by a pharmacist pursuant to a valid
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs and the conduct of the pharmacist and the licensed health professional
authorized to prescribe drugs is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715,
4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, 4741, or 4772:
               a.   Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single day;
               b.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
            2.   The limits specified in divisions (A)(2)(a)1.a. and (A)(2)
(a)1.b. of this section apply to the total amount of base pseudoephedrine or
base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product,
respectively. The limits do not apply to the product’s overall weight.
         (b)   It is not a violation of division (B)(1) of this section for an
individual to receive or accept more than an amount of pseudoephedrine product
or ephedrine product specified in division (A)(2)(a)1.a. or (A)(2)(a)1.b. of
this section if the individual is an employee of a retailer or terminal
distributor of dangerous drugs, and the employee receives or accepts from the
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs the pseudoephedrine product
or ephedrine product in a sealed container in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the
product.
      (3)   (a)   No individual under 18 years of age shall knowingly purchase,
receive, or otherwise acquire a pseudoephedrine product, or ephedrine product
unless the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product is dispensed by a
pharmacist pursuant to a valid prescription issued by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs and the conduct of the pharmacist
and the licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs is in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, 4741, or 4772.
         (b)   Division (A)(3)(a) of this section does not apply to an
individual under 18 years of age who purchases, receives, or otherwise acquires
a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product from any of the following:
            1.   A licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs
or pharmacist who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides the pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to that individual and whose conduct is in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, 4741, or 4772;
            2.   A parent or guardian of that individual who provides the
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            3.   A person, as authorized by that individual’s parent or
guardian, who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides the pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            4.   A retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs who
provides the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to that individual if
the individual is an employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of
dangerous drugs and the individual receives or accepts from the retailer or
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs the pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product in a sealed container in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the
product.
      (4)   No individual under 18 years of age shall knowingly show or give
false information concerning the individual’s name, age, or other
identification for the purpose of purchasing, receiving, or otherwise acquiring
a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product.
      (5)   No individual shall knowingly fail to comply with the requirements
of R.C. § 3715.051(B).
      (6)   Whoever violates division (A)(2)(a) of this section is guilty of
unlawful purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (A)(3)(a) of this section is guilty of
underage purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if it could be
committed by an adult.
      (8)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of using
false information to purchase a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the first degree if it could be
committed by an adult.
      (9)   Whoever violates division (A)(5) of this section is guilty of
improper purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2925.55)
   (B)   Unlawful retail sales.
      (1)   (a)   1.   Except as provided in division (B)(1)(b) of this
section, no retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs or an employee
of a retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall knowingly sell,
offer to sell, hold for sale, deliver, or otherwise provide to any individual
an amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product that is greater than
either of the following:
               a.   Three and six-tenths grams within a period of a single day;
               b.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
            2.   The maximum amounts specified in divisions (B)(1)(a)1.a. and
(B)(1)(a)1.b. of this section apply to the total amount of base pseudoephedrine
or base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product,
respectively. The maximum amounts do not apply to the product’s overall weight.
         (b)   1.   Division (B)(1)(a) of this section does not apply to any
quantity of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product dispensed by a
pharmacist pursuant to a valid prescription issued by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs if the conduct of the pharmacist and
the licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs is in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, 4741, or 4772.
            2.   It is not a violation of division (B)(1)(a) of this section
for a retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, or employee of either
to provide to an individual more than an amount of pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product specified in division (B)(1)(a)1.a. or (B)(1)(a)1.b. of this
section under either of the following circumstances:
               a.   The individual is an employee of the retailer or terminal
distributor of dangerous drugs, and the employee receives or accepts from the
retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, or employee the
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product in a sealed container in
connection with manufacturing, warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging,
loading, or unloading of the product;
               b.   A stop-sale alert is generated after the submission of
information to the national precursor log exchange under the conditions
described in R.C. § 3715.052(A)(2).
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (B)(2)(b) of this section, no
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs or an employee of a
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall sell, offer to sell,
hold for sale, deliver, or otherwise provide a pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product to an individual who is under 18 years of age.
         (b)   Division (B)(2)(a) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
            1.   A licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs
or pharmacist who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides a pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to an individual under 18 years of age and whose
conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731,
4741, or 4772;
            2.   A parent or guardian of an individual under 18 years of age
who provides a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            3.   A person who, as authorized by the individual’s parent or
guardian, dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides a pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product to an individual under 18 years of age;
            4.   The provision by a retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous
drugs, or employee of either of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
in a sealed container to an employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of
dangerous drugs who is under 18 years of age in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the
product.
      (3)   No retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall fail
to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 3715.051(A) or R.C. § 3715.052(A)(2).
      (4)   No retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall fail
to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 3715.052(A)(1).
      (5)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(a) of this section is guilty of
unlawfully selling a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (B)(2)(a) of this section is guilty of
unlawfully selling a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to a minor, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) of this section is guilty of
improper sale of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a misdemeanor
of the second degree.
      (8)   Whoever violates division (B)(4) of this section is guilty of
failing to submit information to the national precursor log exchange, a
misdemeanor for which the offender shall be fined not more than $1,000 per
violation.
(R.C. § 2925.56)
   (C)   Transaction scans.
      (1)   As used in this division and division (D) of this section:
         CARD HOLDER. Means any person who presents a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card to a seller, or an agent or employee
of a seller, to purchase or receive any pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product from the seller, agent, or employee.
         IDENTIFICATION CARD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2927.021.
         SELLER. Means a retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs.
         TRANSACTION SCAN. Means the process by which a seller or an agent or
employee of a seller checks by means of a transaction scan device the validity
of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification card that is
presented as a condition for purchasing or receiving any pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product.
         TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2927.021.
      (2)   (a)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may perform a
transaction scan by means of a transaction scan device to check the validity of
a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a
card holder as a condition for selling, giving away, or otherwise distributing
to the card holder a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product.
         (b)   If the information deciphered by the transaction scan performed
under division (C)(2)(a) of this section fails to match the information printed
on the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by the card holder, or if the transaction scan indicates that the information
so printed is false or fraudulent, neither the seller nor any agent or employee
of the seller shall sell, give away, or otherwise distribute any
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the card holder.
         (c)   Division (C)(2)(a) of this section does not preclude a seller or
an agent or employee of a seller as a condition for selling, giving away, or
otherwise distributing a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the
person presenting the document from using a transaction scan device to check
the validity of a document other than a driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or an identification card if the document includes a bar code or magnetic strip
that may be scanned by the device.
      (3)   Rules adopted by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles under R.C. §
4301.61(C) apply to the use of transaction scan devices for purposes of this
division (C) and division (D) of this section.
      (4)   (a)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall
electronically or mechanically record or maintain any information derived from
a transaction scan, except the following:
            1.   The name, address, and date of birth of the person listed on
the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by
a card holder;
            2.   The expiration date, identification number, and issuing agency
of the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by a card holder.
         (b)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use the
information that is derived from a transaction scan or that is permitted to be
recorded and maintained under division (C)(4)(a) of this section except for
purposes of division (D) of this section, R.C. § 2925.58, or R.C. § 3715.052(A)
(1).
         (c)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use a
transaction scan device for a purpose other than the purpose specified in
division (C)(2)(a) of this section.
         (d)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall sell or
otherwise disseminate the information derived from a transaction scan to any
third party, including but not limited to selling or otherwise disseminating
that information for any marketing, advertising, or promotional activities, but
a seller or agent or employee of a seller may release that information pursuant
to a court order or as specifically authorized by division (D) of this section
or any other section of the Ohio Revised Code.
      (5)   Nothing in this division (C) or division (D) of this section
relieves a seller or an agent or employee of a seller of any responsibility to
comply with any other applicable state or federal laws or rules governing the
sale, giving away, or other distribution of pseudoephedrine products or
ephedrine products.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (C)(2)(b) or (C)(4) of this section is
guilty of engaging in an illegal pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
transaction scan, and the court may impose upon the offender a civil penalty of
up to $1,000 for each violation. The Clerk of the Court shall pay each
collected civil penalty to the County Treasurer for deposit into the County
Treasury.
(R.C. § 2925.57)
   (D)   Affirmative defenses.
      (1)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may not be found
guilty of a charge of a violation of division (B) of this section in which the
age of the purchaser or other recipient of a pseudoephedrine product is an
element of the alleged violation if the seller, agent, or employee raises and
proves as an affirmative defense that all of the following occurred:
         (a)   A card holder attempting to purchase or receive a
pseudoephedrine product presented a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
an identification card.
         (b)   A transaction scan of the driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or identification card that the card holder presented indicated that
the license or card was valid.
         (c)   The pseudoephedrine product was sold, given away, or otherwise
distributed to the card holder in reasonable reliance upon the identification
presented and the completed transaction scan.
      (2)   In determining whether a seller or an agent or employee of a seller
has proven the affirmative defense provided by division (D)(1) of this section,
the trier of fact in the action for the alleged violation of division (B) of
this section shall consider any written policy that the seller has adopted and
implemented and that is intended to prevent violations of division (B) of this
section. For purposes of division (D)(1)(c) of this section, the trier of fact
shall consider that reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and
the completed transaction scan may require a seller or an agent or employee of
a seller to exercise reasonable diligence to determine, and that the use of a
transaction scan device does not excuse a seller or an agent or employee of a
seller from exercising reasonable diligence to determine, the following:
         (a)   Whether a person to whom the seller or agent or employee of a
seller sells, gives away, or otherwise distributes a pseudoephedrine product is
18 years of age or older;
         (b)   Whether the description and picture appearing on the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a card holder
is that of the card holder.
      (3)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense provided by
division (D)(1) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a
deputy registrar who issued an identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50
through 4507.52 shall be permitted to submit certified copies of the records of
that issuance in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of or contractors with
the Bureau of Motor Vehicles in the action.
(R.C. § 2925.58)
   (E)   Retailer’s duties.
      (1)   As used in divisions (E) and (F) of this section:
         CONSUMER PRODUCT. Any food or drink that is consumed or used by humans
and any drug, including a drug that may be provided legally only pursuant to a
prescription, that is intended to be consumed or used by humans.
         DRUG. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         EPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of ephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or salts
of optical isomers.
         EPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains ephedrine.
         LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL. An officer or employee of any agency or
authority of the United States, a state, a territory, a political subdivision
of a state or territory, or an Indian tribe, who is empowered by the law to
investigate or conduct an official inquiry into a potential violation of law or
prosecute or otherwise conduct a criminal, civil, or administrative proceeding
arising from an alleged violation of law.
         LICENSED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL AUTHORIZED TO PRESCRIBE DRUGS. Has the
same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         NATIONAL PRECURSOR LOG EXCHANGE or EXCHANGE. The electronic system for
tracking sales of pseudoephedrine products and ephedrine products on a national
basis that is administered by the National Association of Drug Diversion
Investigators or a successor organization.
         PHARMACIST. A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 to engage in the
practice of pharmacy.
         PHARMACY. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         PRESCRIBER. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         PRESCRIPTION. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         PROOF OF AGE. A driver’s license, a commercial driver’s license, a
military identification card, a passport, or an identification card issued
under R.C. §§ 4507.50 to 4507.52 that shows a person is 18 years of age or
older.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of pseudoephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or
salts of optical isomers.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains
pseudoephedrine.
         RETAILER. A place of business that offers consumer products for sale
to the general public.
         SINGLE-INGREDIENT PREPARATION. A compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that contains a single active ingredient.
         STOP-SALE ALERT. A notification sent from the national precursor log
exchange to a retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs indicating
that the completion of a sale of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
would result in a violation of R.C. § 2925.56(A)(1) or federal law.
         TERMINAL DISTRIBUTOR OF DANGEROUS DRUGS. Has the same meanings as in
R.C. § 4729.01.
         WHOLESALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
      (2)   A retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs that sells,
offers to sell, holds for sale, delivers, or otherwise provides a
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the public shall do all of the
following:
         (a)   Segregate pseudoephedrine products or ephedrine products from
other merchandise so that no member of the public may procure or purchase such
products without the direct assistance of a pharmacist or other authorized
employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs;
         (b)   With regard to each time a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product is sold or otherwise provided without a valid prescription:
            1.   Determine, by examination of a valid proof of age, that the
purchaser or recipient is at least 18 years of age;
            2.   a.   Using any information available, including information
from the national precursor log exchange if the information is accessible, make
a reasonable attempt to ensure that no individual purchases or receives an
amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product that is greater than
either of the following:
                  i.   Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single
day;
                  ii.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
               b.   The maximum amounts specified in divisions (E)(2)(b)2.a.i.
and (E)(2)(b)2.a.ii. of this section apply to the total amount of base
pseudoephedrine or base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product, respectively. The maximum amounts do not apply to the product’s
overall weight.
         (c)   Maintain a log book of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product purchases, in accordance with R.C. § 3715.051;
         (d)   If required to comply with section R.C. § 3715.052, submit the
information specified in divisions (A)(1)(a) to (A)(1)(d) of that section to
the national precursor log exchange.
      (3)   Prescriptions, orders, and records maintained pursuant to this
section and stocks of pseudoephedrine products and ephedrine products shall be
open for inspection to federal, state, county, and municipal officers, and
employees of the State Board of Pharmacy whose duty it is to enforce the laws
of this state or of the United States relating to controlled substances. Such
prescriptions, orders, records, and stocks shall be open for inspection by the
State Medical Board and its employees for purposes of enforcing R.C. Chapter
4731.
(R.C. § 3715.05)
   (F)   Theft or loss; reporting requirements.
      (1)   Each retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, pharmacy,
prescriber, or wholesaler that sells, offers to sell, holds for sale, delivers,
or otherwise provides any pseudoephedrine product and that discovers the theft
or loss of any pseudoephedrine product in an amount of more than nine grams per
incident of theft or loss shall notify all of the following upon discovery of
the theft or loss:
         (a)   The State Board of Pharmacy, by telephone immediately upon
discovery of the theft or loss;
         (b)   Law enforcement authorities. If the incident is a theft and the
theft constitutes a felony, the retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous
drugs, pharmacy, prescriber, or wholesaler shall report the theft to the law
enforcement authorities in accordance with R.C. § 2921.22.
      (2)   Within 30 days after making a report by telephone to the State
Board of Pharmacy pursuant to division (F)(1)(a) of this section, a retailer,
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, pharmacy, prescriber, or wholesaler
shall send a written report to the State Board of Pharmacy.
      (3)   The reports required under this section shall identify the product
that was stolen or lost, the amount of the product stolen or lost, and the date
and time of discovery of the theft or loss.
(R.C. § 3715.06)
§ 138.19 NOTICE OF CONTAMINATION FROM ILLEGAL MANUFACTURE OF METHAMPHETAMINE
AND OTHER ILLEGAL DRUGS.
   (A)   In all transfers of residential real property identified by federal,
state or local government agencies as illegal drug manufacturing sites, the
transferor shall disclose to the transferee the prior or current existence of
an illegal drug manufacturing laboratory, a chemical dump site, or any
hazardous wastes on the real property, of which the transferor has actual
knowledge.
   (B)   The following terms shall have the meanings as provided below:
      (1)   BOX LAB. Any illegal drug manufacturing laboratory that is
portable, including but not limited to motor vehicles used as an illegal drug
manufacturing laboratory;
      (2)   CHEMICAL DUMP SITE. Any place or area where chemicals or other
waste materials used in an illegal drug manufacturing laboratory have been
located;
      (3)   HAZARDOUS WASTES. Waste generated from an illegal drug
manufacturing laboratory;
      (4)   ILLEGAL METHAMPHETAMINE MANUFACTURING LABORATORY. Has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 3745.13;
      (5)   ILLEGAL METHAMPHETAMINE MANUFACTURING LABORATORY SITE. Any place or
area where law enforcement has determined that the conditions associated with
the operation of an illegal methamphetamine manufacturing laboratory exist.
Conditions associated with the operation of an illegal methamphetamine
manufacturing laboratory include, but are not limited to, the existence of an
illegal methamphetamine manufacturing laboratory, a box, lab, chemical dump
site, or the storage of chemicals used in the production of methamphetamine. An
ILLEGAL METHAMPHETAMINE MANUFACTURING LABORATORY SITE may include dwellings,
accessory buildings, accessory structures, motor vehicles, or any land;
      (6)   METHAMPHETAMINE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3745.13;
      (7)   TRANSFERS OF RESIDENTIAL REAL PROPERTY. The transfer or conveyance
of any interest in real property by sale, lease, gift, or land contract;
      (8)   REAL PROPERTY. Shall include any buildings or structures located on
the real property or rental of any hotel room; and
      (9)   HOTEL.
         (a)   Any structure consisting of one or more buildings, with more
than five sleeping rooms kept, used, maintained, advertised, or held out to the
public to be a place where sleeping accommodations are offered for pay to
transient guests for a period of 30 days or less; and
         (b)   Those facilities specifically constructed, kept, used,
maintained, advertised and held out to the public to offer temporary residence
to persons either relocating their residence in an area or on temporary work
assignment in an area.
   (C)   All disclosures required in this section shall be made on a form
provided by Summit County or the Village of Mogadore.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted to abrogate any
disclosure required by or remedies provided in R.C. § 5302.30. As used in this
section, RESIDENTIAL REAL PROPERTY has the same meaning as used in R.C. §
5302.30(A).
(Ord. 2012-10, passed 3-21-12)
§ 138.20 ADMINISTRATION AND RESPONSIBILITY FOR COSTS.
   (A)   Law enforcement authorities that identify conditions associated with
drug labs or properties identified herein, shall promptly notify the
appropriate municipal, child protection, and public health authorities of the
property location, property owner if known, and conditions found.
   (B)   Any drug lab or property identified herein is hereby declared to be a
public health nuisance. Upon identification of such a nuisance, the law
enforcement authorities shall notify the appropriate building and health
departments having jurisdiction over this matter.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the notification by law enforcement authorities, the
appropriate Building or Health Department official shall promptly issue a
declaration of public health nuisance for the affected property and post a copy
of the declaration at the probable entrance to the dwelling or property. The
Building or Health Department official shall also notify the following parties:
      (1)   Occupants of the property;
      (2)   All adjacent property owners and any other neighbors at probable
risk;
      (3)   The Village Police Department;
      (4)   The Village Fire Department;
      (5)   Other federal, state and local authorities, which are known to have
public protection responsibilities that are applicable to the situation.
   (D)   After being declared a public health nuisance, the owner of the
property shall: (1) cause the immediate vacation by all occupants of those
portions of the property, including building or structure interiors, which may
place the occupants or visitors at risk; (2) contract with the appropriate
environmental testing and cleaning firms to conduct an on-site assessment,
complete cleanup and remediation testing and follow-up testing, and determine
that the property risks are sufficiently reduced to allow safe human occupancy
of the dwelling; (3) provide the appropriate Building or Health Department
official with written documentation of the clean-up process, including a
signed, written statement from the environmental testing and cleaning firm that
the property is safe for human occupancy and that the clean-up was conducted.
The owner shall complete the remediation and post-remediation assessment within
90 days from the date of the declaration of public health nuisance.
   (E)   The property owner shall be responsible for all costs of clean-up of
the site, including any contractor's fees.
   (F)   If, after 45 days after service of the notice of declaration of public
health nuisance, the property owner fails to arrange appropriate assessment and
clean-up pursuant to the rules and regulations described herein, the
appropriate Building or Health Department official shall proceed in prompt
manner to initiate the on-site assessment and clean-up. If the appropriate
government agency is unable to identify the property owner within 14 days of
the declaration of public health nuisance, then the village or other
appropriate governmental agencies may proceed in prompt manner to initiate the
on-site assessment and clean-up.
   (G)   The village shall be entitled to recover all costs of detection and
abatement of the public nuisance. The village may recover costs by civil action
against a person or persons who own the property or by assessing such costs as
a special tax against the property in the manner as taxes and special
assessments are certified and collected pursuant to the Ohio Revised Code.
   (H)   Whoever violates any provision of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(Ord. 2012-10, passed 3-21-12)
§ 138.21 SALE OF PURE CAFFEINE PRODUCT.
   (A)   As used in this section, PURE CAFFEINE PRODUCT means:
      (1)   Subject to division (A)(2) of this section, a product that consists
solely or primarily of caffeine and is manufactured into a crystalline, liquid,
or powdered form.
      (2)   The phrase does not include any of the following that contains
caffeine and is formulated, manufactured, and labeled in accordance with the
laws and regulations enforced by the United States Food and Drug
Administration:
         (a)   Coffee, tea, any soft drink, any energy drink, or any other
caffeine-containing beverage;
         (b)   Any energy product.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, no person shall
knowingly sell or offer for sale a pure caffeine product.
   (C)   Division (B) of this section does not prohibit a person from selling
or offering for sale any product manufactured in a unit-dose form such as a
pill, tablet, or caplet, but only if each unit dose of the product contains not
more than 250 milligrams of caffeine.
   (D)   Nothing in this section prohibits either of the following:
      (1)   Possession of a product described in division (C) of this section;
      (2)   Possession of a pure caffeine product by any of the following:
         (a)   A food processing establishment, as defined in R.C. § 3715.021;
         (b)   A manufacturer of a drug that is available without a
prescription;
         (c)   A laboratory that holds a current, valid category III terminal
distributor of dangerous drugs license issued by the state board of pharmacy
under R.C. § 4729.54;
         (d)   A laboratory of any agency or department of this state that
performs testing, analysis, and other laboratory services on behalf of the
state;
         (e)   A postal or delivery service that transports or delivers a pure
caffeine product to an entity specified in divisions (D)(2)(a) to (D)(2)(d) of
this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of illegal
sale of pure caffeine, a minor misdemeanor on a first offense and a misdemeanor
of the third degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 2925.34)
§ 138.20 SALE OF DEXTROMETHORPHAN.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      DEXTROMETHORPHAN. Means the dextrorotatory isomer of 3-methoxy-N-
methylmorphinan, including its salts, but not including its racemic or
levorotatory forms.
      EVIDENCE OF MAJORITY AND IDENTITY. Means a document issued by the federal
government or a state, county, or municipal government, or a subdivision or
agency of any of the foregoing, including a driver’s or commercial driver’s
license, an identification card issued under R.C. §§ 4507.50 to 4507.52, a
military identification card, or any other form of identification that bears
the name, date of birth, description, and picture of the person identified.
      RETAILER. Means a place of business that offers consumer products for
sale to the general public, including a terminal distributor of dangerous drugs
that is licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 and operated as a pharmacy.
   (B)   No retailer or employee of a retailer shall knowingly supply, deliver,
give, or otherwise provide a drug, material, compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance containing any quantity of dextromethorphan through the sale of any
product to a person under 18 years of age, unless the person has been issued a
prescription for the product being purchased.
   (C)   For purposes of division (B) of this section, the person making the
sale of a product containing dextromethorphan shall require and obtain evidence
of majority and identity from the purchaser, unless from the purchaser’s
outward appearance the person making the sale would reasonably presume the
purchaser to be 25 years of age or older. Proof that the person making the sale
demanded, was shown, and acted in reasonable reliance on the purchaser’s
evidence of majority and identity is a defense to any charge of a violation of
division (B) of this section.
   (D)   A retailer or employee of a retailer is not liable for damages in a
civil action for injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly
arises from an act or omission associated with a failure to prevent the sale of
a product containing dextromethorphan to a person under 18 years of age, unless
the act or omission constitutes willful or wanton misconduct.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of illegally
selling dextromethorphan, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2925.62)
CHAPTER 139: MISCELLANEOUS
Section
   
139.01   Desecration
   
139.02   Unvented heaters
§ 139.01 DESECRATION.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall purposely deface, damage,
pollute, or otherwise physically mistreat any of the following:
      (1)   Any public monument;
      (2)   Any historical or commemorative marker, or any structure, Indian
mound or earthwork, cemetery, thing or site of great historical or
archeological interest;
      (3)   A place of worship, its furnishings, or religious artifacts or
sacred texts within the place of worship or within the grounds upon which the
place of worship is located;
      (4)   A work of art or museum piece;
      (5)   Any other object of reverence or sacred devotion.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of desecration. A violation of
division (A)(1), (2), (4) or (5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. Except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of division
(A)(3) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
   (C)   As used in this section, CEMETERY means any place of burial and
includes burial sites that contain American Indian burial objects placed with
or containing American Indian human remains.
(R.C. § 2927.11) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 139.02 UNVENTED HEATERS.
   (A)   A brazier, salamander, space heater, room heater, furnace, water
heater, or other burner or heater using wood, coal, coke, fuel oil, kerosene,
gasoline, natural gas, liquid petroleum gas or similar fuel, and tending to
give off carbon monoxide or other harmful gases;
      (1)   When used in living quarters, or in any enclosed building or space
in which persons are usually present, shall be used with a flue or vent so
designed, installed, and maintained as to vent the products of combustion
outdoors; except in storage, factory, or industrial buildings which are
provided with sufficient ventilation to avoid the danger of carbon monoxide
poisoning;
      (2)   When used as a portable or temporary burner or heater at a
construction site, or in a warehouse, shed, or structure in which persons are
temporarily present, shall be vented as provided in division (A) (1) or used
with sufficient ventilation to avoid the danger of carbon monoxide poisoning.
   (B)   This section does not apply to domestic ranges, laundry stoves, gas
logs installed in a fireplace with an adequate flue, or hot plates, unless the
same are used as space or room heaters.
   (C)   No person shall negligently use, or, being the owner, person in
charge, or occupant of premises, negligently permit the use of a burner or
heater in violation of the standards for venting and ventilation provided in
this section.
   (D)   Division (A) above does not apply to any kerosene-fired space or room
heater that is equipped with an automatic extinguishing tip-over device, or to
any natural gas-fired or liquid petroleum gas-fired space or room heater that
is equipped with an oxygen depletion safety shut-off system, and that has its
fuel piped from a source outside the building in which it is located, that are
approved by an authoritative source recognized by the state fire marshal in the
state fire code adopted by him under R.C. § 3737.82.
   (E)   The state fire marshal may make rules to ensure the safe use of
unvented kerosene, natural gas, or liquid petroleum gas heaters exempted from
division (A) above when used in assembly buildings, business buildings, high
hazard buildings, institutional buildings, mercantile buildings, and type R-
1 and R-2 Residential buildings, as these groups of buildings are defined in
rules adopted by the board of building standards under R.C. § 3781.10. No
person shall negligently use, or, being the owner, person in charge or occupant
of premises, negligently permit the use of a heater in violation of any rules
adopted under this division.
   (F)   The state fire marshal may make rules prescribing standards for
written instructions containing ventilation requirements and warning of any
potential fire hazards that may occur in using a kerosene, natural gas, or
liquid petroleum gas heater. No person shall sell or offer for sale any
kerosene, natural gas, or liquid petroleum gas heater unless the manufacturer
provides with the heater written instructions that comply with any rules
adopted under this division.
   (G)   No product labeled as a fuel additive for kerosene heaters and having
a flash point below 100°F. or 37.8°C. shall be sold, offered for sale, or used
in any kerosene space heater.
   (H)   No device that prohibits any safety feature on a kerosene, natural
gas, or liquid petroleum gas space heater from operating shall be sold, offered
for sale, or used in connection with any kerosene, natural gas, or liquid
petroleum gas space heater.
   (I)   No person shall sell or offer for sale any kerosene-fired, natural
gas, or liquid petroleum gas- fired heater that is not exempt from division (A)
above, unless it is marked conspicuously by the manufacturer on the container
with the phrase “Not Approved For Home Use.”
   (J)   No person shall use a cabinet-type, liquid petroleum gas-fired heater
having a fuel source within the heater, inside any building, except as
permitted by the state fire marshal in the state fire code adopted by him under
R.C. § 3737.82.
   (K)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. §§ 3701.82 and 3701.99(C)) Penalty, see §
130.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   PERMITS & APPROVALS
      
151.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
         
APPENDIX A:   TYPICAL MINOR SUBDIVISION MAP
         
APPENDIX B:   APPLICATION FOR PRELIMINARY PLAN APPROVAL
         
APPENDIX C:   PRELIMINARY STEPS CERTIFICATION FORM
         
APPENDIX D:   TYPICAL PRELIMINARY PLAN SUBDIVISION MAP
         
APPENDIX E:   APPLICATION FOR FINAL PLAT APPROVAL
         
APPENDIX F:   TYPICAL PLAT SUBDIVISION MAP
         
APPENDIX G:   EXAMPLES OF CERTIFICATIONS AND STATEMENTS
         
APPENDIX I:   TYPICAL PLANTING PLAN
      
152.   ZONING REGULATIONS
         
APPENDIX B:   DIAGRAMS
      
153.   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL AND STORM WATER MANAGEMENT
      
154.   FLOOD DAMAGE REDUCTION
CHAPTER 150: PERMITS & APPROVALS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   County of Summit Building Code to apply; enforcement by County of
Summit
   
150.02   Scope
   
150.03   Licensing and registration
   
150.04   Occupancy permit
   
150.05   Fire inspection
   
150.06   Fees for engineering inspection and other services
Building and Construction Regulations
   
150.201   Installing or replacing sidewalk within right-of-way
   
150.202   Installing or replacing a driveway - no size change
   
150.203   Installing or replacing a driveway - size increase
   
150.204   Install or replace a drive pipe/ditch enclosure
   
150.205   Ditch, creek or stream cleaning
   
150.206   Work within the right-of-way (utility connections, utility repairs,
mailboxes etc.)
   
150.207   New utility occupation within the right-of-way
   
150.208   Fill or grading or retaining wall
   
150.209   Demolition (only needed for structures larger than 200 square feet or
taller than 15 feet)
   
150.210   Clearing (in wetlands, riparian areas or flood plains)
   
150.211   Installing or replacing a fence
   
150.212   Patio installation, expansion or replacement
   
150.213   Porch, deck, garage or shed installation or replacement
   
150.214   Residential construction/addition
   
150.215   Commercial, industrial, central business or multi-family
construction/addition
   
150.216   Commercial, industrial, central business or multi-family revised use
   
150.217   Commercial, industrial, multi-family or central business fire
prevention/access revisions
   
150.218   Signs and billboards
   
150.219   P – park
   
150.221   Mail box installation or replacement (post only)
   
150.223   Private pools
   
150.224   Treelawn landscaping or plantings
   
150.225   Oversized load (commercial and heavy vehicles)
   
150.226   Electric vehicle charging stations
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 COUNTY OF SUMMIT BUILDING CODE TO APPLY; ENFORCEMENT BY COUNTY OF
SUMMIT.
   (A)   Any and all construction, alteration, movement, enlargement,
replacement, repair, location, maintenance, removal and demolition of
structures within the village shall be regulated by the County of Summit
Building Code, as set forth in Part Thirteen of the Codified Ordinances of
Summit County (hereinafter "County of Summit Building Code"). The following
regulations and codes, as adopted by and through the County of Summit Building
Code, shall apply within the village:
      (1)   The construction, alteration, movement, enlargement, replacement,
repair, maintenance, removal and demolition of all one-, two- and three-family
dwelling residential buildings and structures, any appurtenances connected or
attached thereto and any accessory structures, subject to the exceptions
therein, shall be governed by the 2006 Residential Code of Ohio for One, Two
and Three-Family Dwellings ("RCO"), as amended.
      (2)   The construction, alteration, movement, enlargement, replacement,
repair, maintenance, removal and demolition of every other building or
structure not governed by division (A)(1) of this section, any appurtenances
connected or attached thereto and any accessory structures, subject to the
exceptions therein, shall be governed by the 2007 Ohio Building Code of Ohio
("OBC"), as amended.
      (3)   Any residential and/or commercial code requirements in addition to
those set forth in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2), above, that are lawfully
adopted by the County of Summit in the County of Summit Building Code.
   (B)   The County of Summit Department of Community and Economic Development,
Division of Building Standards, shall serve as the Building Inspector/Building
Official of the village, and shall regulate and enforce, pursuant to a written
agreement between the village and the County of Summit, the construction,
alteration, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, location, maintenance,
removal and demolition of all structures within the village by enforcing the
regulations set forth in the County of Summit Building Code, and all other
Codes adopted pursuant to and through the County of Summit Building Code.
Furthermore, the County of Summit Building Code, including but not limited to
the permitting and inspection processes and requirements and the fee schedule
contained therein, shall govern said regulation and enforcement.
   (C)   The provisions of divisions (A) and (B), above, shall apply throughout
the entirety of the village, regardless of whether the building being regulated
is located in Summit or Portage County.
   (D)   Any amendments made to the County of Summit Building Code, or to any
of the Codes adopted thereto, including any future versions of any RCO or OBC,
shall be adopted and incorporated herein immediately upon the adoption of said
amendments.
   (E)   All appeals to any decision made by the County of Summit Department of
Community and Economic Development, Division of Building Standards shall be
governed by any process for said appeals set forth in the County of Summit
Building Code.
(Ord. 73, passed 8-6-08; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 150.02 SCOPE.
   The scope of this chapter shall apply to the construction, alteration,
movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, location, maintenance, removal and
demolition of residential and commercial structures as set forth in, and
limited to, the scope of the County of Summit Building Code.
(Ord. 73, passed 8-6-08; Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 150.03 LICENSING AND REGISTRATION.
   (A)   No person shall commence, complete or substantially complete the
construction, alteration, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, location,
maintenance, removal or demolition of residential or commercial structures
without first obtaining a license and/or registering with the County of Summit
as provided in the County of Summit Building Code.
   (B)   Any contract made or bid submitted by any person not licensed and/or
registered by the County of Summit as required herein shall be null and void
and no action may be maintained and no compensation or other consideration
shall be paid thereon.
   (C)   Any exception to the licensing/registration requirements set forth in
the County of Summit Building Code are fully adopted and incorporated herein.
(Ord. 73, passed 8-6-08; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 150.04 OCCUPANCY PERMIT.
   No person shall occupy or use a residential or commercial structure in
contravention of §§ 1309.11 and 1309.15 of the Codified Ordinances of the
County of Summit.
(Ord. 73, passed 8-6-08; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 150.05 FIRE INSPECTION.
   The Fire Inspector may review all plans for construction, alteration,
movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, location, maintenance, removal or
demolition of residential or commercial structures, and may conduct said review
in cooperation with the County of Summit Building Inspector/Building Official,
to ensure compliance with any applicable fire codes.
(Ord. 73, passed 8-6-08; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 150.06 FEES FOR ENGINEERING INSPECTION AND OTHER SERVICES.
   (A)   Where an inspection or other service is required, the person(s)
requiring the inspection or other service shall pay to the village a fee for
such services. Reference the Village Permits and Approvals Fee Schedule for
details of the required fees.
   (B)   Prior to commencement of the services, the person(s) requiring the
inspection or other service shall deposit with the village a retainer equal to
that shown in the Village Permits and Approvals Fee Schedule. The village shall
receive payment for the services from this retainer. Should the retainer become
exhausted, then an additional retainer, as determined by the Village Engineer,
shall be provided.
(Ord. 2011-59, passed 12-7-11; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 150.201 INSTALLING OR REPLACING SIDEWALK WITHIN RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Right-of-way permit application (to allow work within village R/W).
      (1)   Submit a right-of-way permit application to Village Clerk (with
fees and deposit).
      (2)   Submit neat drawings of proposed work (see sample work plan).
      (3)   A zoning permit is not required.
      (4)   The Village Engineer reviews the zoning application.
      (5)   If the work includes the walk and drive apron, a single application
is acceptable.
      (6)   If the work involves only the drive and/or apron, submit a driveway
application.
   (B)   Village fees.
      (1)   Right-of-way permit application fee required.
      (2)   Deposits are required to cover direct costs to the village and
provide money for the village to correct sub-standard or incomplete work. Refer
to the latest Village Permits and Approvals Fee Schedule for application and
deposit fees.
      (3)   Deposits may be increased by the village for complicated or larger
projects.
      (4)   Unused deposits as determined by the village will be returned upon
the village's approval of the work.
   (C)   Village standards.
      (1)   The contractor performing excavations within the village is
required to contact OUPS, OGPUP, 811 or individual utilities as required to
locate and protect underground facilities. Record drawings are not exact and
care should be used when excavating near utilities shown on plans or marked in
the field. The village should be contacted directly for the location of storm
sewers.
      (2)   See the village standard roadway drawings for sidewalk construction
requirements.
      (3)   It is recommended that property owners provide contractors the
village standard details to obtain quotes for the work.
      (4)   Sidewalks shall not unreasonably direct water to a neighboring
property.
      (5)   Sidewalks and curb ramps at intersections must meet ADA
requirements.
      (6)   Sidewalks shall not trap or cause ponded water.
      (7)   Sidewalks shall be constructed to freely drain to reduce ice
formation.
      (8)   Sidewalks shall not be installed to create trip hazards.
      (9)   Sidewalks through drives shall be thickened per the village
details.
      (10)   Disturbed areas shall be repaired with a minimum of three inches
of screened topsoil, a high quality residential seed mix, mulching and
watering/fertilizer as needed to ensure full germination within 60 calendar
days.
   (D)   Inspections.
      (1)   Provide the village 48 hour (two business days) notice of work to
allow scheduling of inspection.
      (2)   Inspection by Zoning Inspector or Village Engineer.
      (3)   Pre-pour inspection of forms and base preparation at a minimum.
      (4)   Inspection during pour possible.
      (5)   Adding water to concrete mix to make it easier to work is
prohibited.
      (6)   Apply a cure as soon as practical to prevent surface drying.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.202 INSTALLING OR REPLACING A DRIVEWAY - NO SIZE CHANGE.
   (A)   Zoning permit application.
      (1)   Submit a zoning permit application to Village Clerk (with fees and
deposit).
      (2)   Submit neat drawings of proposed work (see sample drive plan).
      (3)   Drive dimensions, location and offset from property lines and
existing/proposed structures shall be indicated within the application
materials.
      (4)   The Village Engineer reviews the zoning application.
      (5)   No need for a separate right-of-way permit for simultaneous walk
and apron work.
   (B)   Village fees.
      (1)   Zoning permit application fee required.
      (2)   Deposits are required to cover direct costs to the village and
provide money for the village to correct sub-standard or incomplete work
(within the R/W). Refer to the Village Permits and Approvals Fee Schedule for
application and deposit fees.
      (3)   Deposits may be increased by the village for complicated or larger
projects.
      (4)   Unused deposits as determined by the village will be returned upon
the village's approval of the work.
   (C)   Village standards.
      (1)   Refer to district zoning regulations for district specific (i.e. R-
1, R-2, CB etc.) regulations and requirements.
      (2)   General requirements regarding parking may be found in §
152.024.
      (3)   The contractor performing excavations within the village is
required to contact OUPS, OGPUP, 811 or individual utilities as required to
locate and protect underground facilities. Record drawings are not exact and
care should be used when excavating near utilities shown on plans or marked in
the field. The village should be contacted directly for the location of storm
sewers.
      (4)   See the village standard roadway drawings for driveway and apron
construction requirements.
      (5)   It is recommended that property owners provide contractors the
village standard details to obtain quotes for the work.
      (6)   Driveways shall slope away from structures.
      (7)   Driveways shall not unreasonably direct water to a neighboring
property.
      (8)   Driveways shall freely drain to prevent ponding and ice formation.
      (9)   The village may require a curbed section or supplemental drainage
to prevent ponding and direct water to a suitable location.
      (10)   Residential drives shall be a minimum of four inches of 4,000 psi
concrete on four inches of compacted crushed stone or three inches of asphalt
on six inches of compacted crushed stone. It is recommended that concrete
include 4"x4"x10 gauge wire mesh. See village drive apron detail. Concrete may
not be appropriate on clay soils.
      (11)   Commercial drives shall be a minimum of six inches of 4,000 psi
concrete on six inches of compacted crushed stone or four inches of asphalt on
six inches of compacted crushed stone. It is recommended that concrete include
4"x4"x10 gauge wire mesh. See village drive apron detail.
      (12)   Industrial drives or delivery drives shall be thickened
accordingly to prevent premature failure.
      (13)   Concrete aprons must be located a minimum of one foot from the
edge of pavement. The area between the concrete apron and the asphalt road
shall be filled with six inches of compacted asphalt on four inches of
compacted stone.
      (14)   Disturbed areas shall be repaired with a minimum of three inches
of screened topsoil, a high quality residential seed mix, mulching and
watering/fertilizer as needed to ensure full germination within 60 calendar
days.
   (D)   Inspections.
      (1)   Provide the village 48 hour (two business days) notice of work to
allow scheduling of inspection.
      (2)   Inspection by Zoning Inspector or Village Engineer.
      (3)   Pre-installation inspection of base and forms at a minimum.
      (4)   Inspection during placement possible.
      (5)   Adding water to concrete mix to make it easier to work is
prohibited.
      (6)   Apply a cure as soon as practical to concrete drives to prevent
surface drying.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.203 INSTALLING OR REPLACING A DRIVEWAY - SIZE INCREASE.
   (A)   Zoning permit application.
      (1)   Submit a zoning permit application to Village Clerk (with fees and
deposit).
      (2)   Submit neat drawings of proposed work (see sample work plan).
      (3)   Drive dimensions, location and offset from property lines and
existing/proposed structures shall be indicated within the application
materials.
      (4)   No need for a separate road opening permit for simultaneous walk
and apron work.
      (5)   The Village Engineer reviews proposed driveway projects when the
footprint of the driveway increases. In all non-residential zoning districts,
the Planning Commission will also review proposed driveway projects with
increases to the footprint. Take note of Planning Commission meeting schedule
to coordinate approval timeline and contractor scheduling.
      (6)   The size and location of the proposed parking area must maintain
the nature of a zoning district, comply with the Village Code and be located
within approved locations.
      (7)   Increasing the amount of impermeable surfaces and the associated
impacts of the run-off on neighboring properties will be considered. Larger
areas may require storm water management facilities.
   (B)   Village fees.
      (1)   Zoning permit application fee required.
      (2)   Deposits are required to cover direct costs to the village and
provide money for the village to correct sub-standard or incomplete work
(within the R/W). Refer to the Village Permits and Approvals Fee Schedule for
application and deposit fees.
      (3)   Deposits may be increased by the village for complicated or larger
projects.
      (4)   Unused deposits as determined by the village will be returned upon
the village's approval of the work.
   (C)   Village standards.
      (1)   Refer to district zoning regulations for district specific (i.e. R-
1, R-2, CB etc.) regulations and requirements.
      (2)   General requirements regarding parking may be found in §
152.024.
      (3)   The contractor performing excavations within the village is
required to contact OUPS, OGPUP, 811 or individual utilities as required to
locate and protect underground facilities. Record drawings are not exact and
care should be used when excavating near utilities shown on plans or marked in
the field. The village should be contacted directly for the location of storm
sewers.
      (4)   See the village standard roadway drawings for driveway and apron
construction requirements.
      (5)   It is recommended that property owners provide contractors the
village standard details to obtain quotes for the work.
      (6)   Driveways shall slope away from structures.
      (7)   Driveways shall not unreasonably direct water to a neighboring
property.
      (8)   Driveways shall freely drain to prevent ponding and ice formation.
      (9)   The village may require a curbed section or supplemental drainage
to prevent ponding and direct water to a suitable location.
      (10)   Residential drives shall be a minimum of four inches of 4,000 psi
concrete on four inches of compacted crushed stone or three inches of asphalt
on six inches of compacted crushed stone. It is recommended that concrete
include 4"x4"x10 gauge wire mesh. See village drive apron detail. Concrete may
not be appropriate on clay soils.
      (11)   Commercial drives shall be a minimum of six inches of 4,000 psi
concrete on six inches of compacted crushed stone or four inches of asphalt on
six inches of compacted crushed stone. It is recommended that concrete include
4"x4"x10 gauge wire mesh. See village drive apron detail.
      (12)   Industrial drives or delivery drives shall be thickened
accordingly to prevent premature failure.
      (13)   For asphalt roads, concrete aprons must be located a minimum of
one foot from the edge of pavement. The area between the concrete apron and the
asphalt road shall be filled with six inches of compacted asphalt on four
inches of compacted stone.
      (14)   Disturbed areas shall be repaired with a minimum of three inches
of screened topsoil, a high quality residential seed mix, mulching and
watering/fertilizer as needed to ensure full germination within 60 calendar
days.
   (D)   Inspections.
      (1)   Provide the village 48 hour (two business days) notice of work to
allow scheduling of inspection.
      (2)   Inspection by Zoning Inspector or Village Engineer.
      (3)   Pre-installation inspection minimum.
      (4)   Inspection during placement possible.
      (5)   Adding water to concrete mix to make it easier to work is
prohibited.
      (6)   Apply a cure as soon as practical to concrete drives to prevent
surface drying.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18; Am. Ord. 2020-15, passed 3-4-20) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.204 INSTALL OR REPLACE A DRIVE PIPE/DITCH ENCLOSURE.
   (A)   Part of approved site plan - if the work is included as part of an
overall site plan that has been approved, the work can move forward under the
approved site plan zoning permit. A separate right-of-way permit is not
required. The village will verify pipe sizes and inverts to ensure the system
won't impede or trap water (on subject site or neighboring properties).
   (B)   Village installation option.
      (1)   Resident may request village install drive pipe or ditch enclosure
piping.
      (2)   Village will check existing roadway surface, adjacent yard and
ditch elevations.
      (3)   The Village Engineer will determine suitability of ditch enclosure
and drive pipe size/elevations. Ditch enclosure is not always possible.
      (4)   Resident must pay for materials for installation by village.
      (5)   Concrete or asphalt driveway restoration is the responsibility of
the owner.
      (6)   If time is of the essence, this may not be the appropriate option.
      (7)   No permit required.
   (C)   Owner installation.
      (1)   Submit a right-of-way permit application to Village Clerk (with
fees and deposit).
      (2)   Submit neat drawings of proposed work (see sample work plan).
      (3)   Village will check existing roadway surface, adjacent yard and
ditch elevations.
      (4)   The Village Engineer will determine suitability of ditch enclosure
and drive pipe size/elevations. Ditch enclosure is not always possible.
      (5)   Village must approve privately installed pipe and pipe elevations.
      (6)   Unapproved pipe or installation must be removed or replaced at
owner's expense.
      (7)   A zoning permit is not required.
      (8)   Disturbed areas shall be repaired with a minimum of three inches of
screened topsoil, a high quality residential seed mix, mulching and watering/
fertilizer as needed to ensure full germination within 60 calendar days.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.205 DITCH, CREEK OR STREAM CLEANING.
   (A)   The village has the right and responsibility to clean ditches and
drainage features within village right-of-way, easements to the village and
storm easements.
   (B)   If private property owners refuse or neglect to maintain ditches,
swales and creeks and the resulting lack of maintenance results in a risk to
private property, public property, utilities or the traveling public, the
village has the right to enter upon private property to clear debris, stabilize
channels and remove deposits that are impeding flow at the owner's cost. If
practical, proper notice (two weeks) will be provided to the property owner to
allow the owner to effect the maintenance or coordinate with the village.
   (C)   The dumping or directing of any material into any storm sewer, creek
or ditch is prohibited within the village. If a storm water conveyance is
impeded due to dumping of yard waste, excess soils, concrete, demolition rubble
or similar materials, the village will require the removal of the material at
the owner's cost.
   (D)   The village may not be able to provide a two week notice in the event
of a sudden or unexpected wash-out, collapse or conveyance blockage. The
village will attempt to notify the owner, but may be required to take the steps
necessary to mitigate risks to private property, public property and or the
health and safety of the public.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.206 WORK WITHIN THE RIGHT-OF-WAY (UTILITY CONNECTIONS, UTILITY REPAIRS,
MAILBOXES ETC.).
   (A)   Permit application.
      (1)   Submit a right-of-way permit application to Village Clerk (with
fees and deposit).
      (2)   Submit neat drawings of proposed work (see sample work plan).
      (3)   The Village Engineer reviews right-of-way applications.
      (4)   No need for a zoning permit.
      (5)   Multiple utility service connections can be performed under a
single permit provided the permit application reflects all work to be performed
and all utility connections occur with a continuous 14 day period.
      (6)   Include a traffic control plan for the work. This may be a flagger
for curbside work in low traffic areas up to a detour plan for more significant
impacts on busier streets.
      (7)   Roadway crossing or utility connection drawings may be neat
sketches showing all utilities and storm sewers in the area of interest.
      (8)   Linear projects and utility extensions/replacement require plan and
profile drawings showing all utilities and storm sewers.
      (9)   Many concrete roads within the village have plastic storm drains
under or just behind the curb. These drains must be avoided and protected/
restored at all times.
      (10)   For mailbox installations, refer to the village mailbox
installation detail to prevent damage to storm drains.
      (11)   Include OUPS reference number on application.
      (12)   Utility connections within the R/W that are part of a larger
development plan must still obtain separate right-of-way approvals and require
separate deposits (separate from the overall development review deposit).
   (B)   Village fees.
      (1)   Right-of-way permit application fee and deposit required.
      (2)   Deposits are required to cover direct costs to the village and
provide money for the village to correct sub-standard or incomplete work. Refer
to the Village Permits and Approvals Fee Schedule for application and deposit
fees.
      (3)   Deposits may be increased by the village for complicated or larger
projects.
      (4)   Unused deposits as determined by the village will be returned upon
the village's approval of the work.
   (C)   Village standards.
      (1)   The contractor performing excavations within the village is
required to contact OUPS, OGPUP, 811 or individual utilities as required to
locate and protect underground facilities. Record drawings are not exact and
care should be used when excavating near utilities shown on plans or marked in
the field. The village should be contacted directly for the location of storm
sewers.
      (2)   The contractor performing work within the village is responsible
for worker and public safety. Compliance with 29 CFR 1926 Subpart P and OSHA
excavation requirements are the responsibility of the contractor performing the
work.
      (3)   See the village standard roadway drawings for roadway, apron and
driveway construction requirements.
      (4)   It is recommended that contractors reference the village standard
details before quoting the proposed work.
      (5)   The contractor must perform traffic control in accordance with the
Ohio Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices (supplemented as needed to
provide clear and safe direction to drivers). The proposed traffic control
shall be accepted by the village prior to the work.
      (6)   The contractor shall coordinate with the village emergency dispatch
regarding daily changes in the traffic patterns. Contact Village Hall at 330-
628-4896 for the current dispatch phone number.
      (7)   Work on busy roads or bus routes may be restricted to certain hours
of the day.
      (8)   The contractor shall not track materials onto village roadways. If
required, village street sweeping will be charged back to the owner through the
deposit.
      (9)   To mitigate pollution due to run-off, the contractor shall provide
inlet protection and silt fence as directed by the village.
      (10)   Issues that are not immediately and appropriately addressed by the
contractor will be addressed by village forces. The cost of which shall be
deducted from the deposit.
      (11)   Disturbed areas shall be repaired with a minimum of three inches
of screened topsoil, a high quality residential seed mix, mulching and
watering/fertilizer as needed to ensure full germination within 60 calendar
days.
   (D)   Inspections.
      (1)   Periodic inspection by the Village Engineer.
      (2)   Provide the village 48 hour (two business days) notice of work to
allow scheduling of inspection.
      (3)   Storm system construction/connection inspection required.
      (4)   Backfill inspection required.
      (5)   Pre-pour inspection for asphalt or concrete roads at a minimum.
      (6)   Inspection of doweling of concrete pavement required.
      (7)   Inspection during pavement placement possible.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.207 NEW UTILITY OCCUPATION WITHIN THE RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Permit application.
      (1)   Submit a Planning Commission application to Village Clerk (with
fees and deposit).
      (2)   Submit neat drawings of proposed work (see sample plans).
      (3)   New utility occupation within the village R/W must be approved by
the Planning Commission and Council.
      (4)   If approved by the Planning Commission, the application will
automatically be referred to Council.
      (5)   For new utilities, the Village Engineer cannot approve the right-
of-way permit until the Planning Commission and Village Council have approved
the occupancy.
      (6)   Include a traffic control plan for the work. This may be a flagger
for curbside work in low traffic areas up to a detour plan for more significant
impacts on busier streets.
      (7)   Roadway crossing or utility connection drawings must show all
utilities and storm sewers in the area of interest.
      (9)   Linear projects and utility extensions/replacement require plan and
profile drawings showing all utilities and storm sewers.
      (10)   Many concrete roads within the village have plastic storm drains
under or just behind the curb. These drains must be avoided and protected at
all times.
      (11)   For mailbox installations, refer to the village mailbox
installation detail to prevent damage to storm drains.
      (12)   Include OUPS reference number on application.
   (B)   Village fees.
      (1)   Planning Commission application fee and right-of-way permit
application fee and deposit required.
      (2)   Deposits are required to cover direct costs to the village and
provide money for the village to correct sub-standard or incomplete work. Refer
to the Village Permits and Approvals Fee Schedule for application and deposit
fees.
      (3)   Deposits may be increased by the village for complicated or larger
projects.
      (4)   Unused deposits as determined by the village will be returned upon
the village's approval of the work.
   (C)   Village standards.
      (1)   The contractor perforating excavations within the village is
required to contact OUPS, OGPUP, 811 or individual utilities as required to
locate and protect underground facilities. Record drawings are not exact and
care should be used when excavating near utilities shown on plans or marked in
the field. The village should be contacted directly for the location of storm
sewers.
      (2)   The contractor performing work within the village is responsible
for worker and public safety. Compliance with 29 CFR 1926 Subpart P and OSHA
excavation requirements are the responsibility of the contractor performing the
work.
      (3)   See the village standard roadway drawings for roadway, apron and
driveway construction requirements.
      (4)   It is recommended that contractors reference the village standard
details before quoting the proposed work.
      (5)   The contractor must perform traffic control in accordance with the
Ohio Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices (supplemented as needed to
provide clear and safe direction to drivers). The proposed traffic control
shall be accepted by the village prior to the work.
      (6)   The contractor shall coordinate with the village emergency dispatch
regarding daily changes in the traffic patterns. Contact Village Hall at 330-
628-4896 for the current dispatch phone number.
      (7)   Work on busy roads or bus routes may be restricted to certain hours
of the day.
      (8)   The contractor shall not track materials onto village roadways. If
required, village street sweeping will be charged back to the owner through the
deposit.
      (9)   To mitigate pollution due to run-off, the contractor shall provide
inlet protection and silt fence as directed by the village.
      (10)   Issues that are not immediately and appropriately addressed by the
contractor will be addressed by village forces. The cost of which shall be
deducted from the deposit.
      (11)   Disturbed areas shall be repaired with a minimum of three inches
of screened topsoil, a high quality residential seed mix, mulching and
watering/fertilizer as needed to ensure full germination within 60 calendar
days.
   (D)   Inspections.
      (1)   Periodic inspection by the Village Engineer.
      (2)   Provide the village 48 hour (two business days) notice of work to
allow scheduling of inspection.
      (3)   Storm system construction/connection inspection required.
      (4)   Backfill inspection required.
      (5)   Pre-pour inspection for asphalt or concrete roads at a minimum.
      (6)   Inspection of doweling of concrete pavement required.
      (7)   Inspection during pavement placement possible.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.208 FILL OR GRADING OR RETAINING WALL.
   (A)   Zoning permit application.
      (1)   Submit a zoning permit application to Village Clerk (with fees and
deposit).
      (2)   The application materials shall include a Floodplain and Storm
water Pollution Prevention Acknowledgment Form.
      (3)   Submit neat drawings of proposed work (see sample work plan).
      (4)   The drawings must indicate grading limits and show proposed methods
of preventing offsite migration of sediment.
      (5)   The Village Engineer reviews the zoning application.
      (6)   There is no need for a separate permit for fill or grading if
grading was shown and approved as part of an approved overall site plan review.
   (B)   Village fees.
      (1)   Zoning permit application fee required.
      (2)   Deposits are required to cover direct costs to the village and
provide money for the village to correct sub-standard or incomplete work
(within the R/W). Refer to the Village Permits and Approvals Fee Schedule for
application and deposit fees.
      (3)   Deposits may be increased by the village for complicated or larger
projects.
      (4)   Unused deposits as determined by the village will be returned upon
the village's approval of the work.
   (C)   Village standards.
      (1)   The contractor performing excavations within the village is
required to contact OUPS, OGPUP, 811 or individual utilities as required to
locate and protect underground facilities. Record drawings are not exact and
care should be used when excavating near utilities shown on plans or marked in
the field. The village should be contacted directly for the location of storm
sewers.
      (2)   See the village standard storm water drawings for pollution
prevention requirements. All projects require some level of storm water
pollution prevention.
      (3)   A Floodplain and Stormwater Acknowledgment Form are required.
      (4)   If the overall project impacts one acre or more, a permit is also
required from the Summit County or Portage County Soil and Water Conservation
District. Submittals and permit requirements to be coordinated directly with
the appropriate county Soil and Water Conservation District. The Soil and Water
Conservation District may require the submittal of a Notice of Intent to the
EPA.
      (5)   Work impacting wetlands or riparian setbacks requires special
consideration.
      (6)   Methods to prevent tracking onto roadways are required.
      (7)   If required, village street sweeping will be charged back to the
owner through the deposit.
      (8)   Walls taller than four feet (exposed) require a Summit County
Building Department Permit.
      (9)   Disturbed areas shall be repaired with a minimum of three inches of
screened topsoil, a high quality residential seed mix, mulching and watering/
fertilizer as needed to ensure fall germination within 60 calendar days.
   (D)   Inspections.
      (1)   Periodic inspection by the Village Engineer.
      (2)   Inspection by the Soil and Water Conservation District or EPA
possible if site is larger than one acre.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.209 DEMOLITION (ONLY NEEDED FOR STRUCTURES LARGER THAN 200 SQUARE FEET OR
TALLER THAN 15 FEET).
   (A)   Zoning permit application.
      (1)   Submit a zoning permit application to Village Clerk (with fees and
deposit).
      (2)   The application materials shall include a Floodplain and Storm
water Pollution Prevention Acknowledgment Form.
      (3)   Submit neat drawings of proposed work area (see sample work plan).
      (4)   The drawings must indicate grading limits and show proposed methods
of preventing offsite migration of sediment.
      (5)   The Village Engineer and Fire Department review the zoning
application.
      (6)   Submit approved zoning permit to the Summit County Building
Department and Akron Air Quality.
      (7)   Prior to beginning demolition activities, provide the Village Clerk
with a copy of the approved Summit County Demolition Permit and Akron Air
Quality Permit.
   (B)   Village fees.
      (1)   Zoning permit application fee required.
      (2)   Deposits are required to cover direct costs to the village and
provide money for the village to correct sub-standard or incomplete work
(within the R/W). Refer to the Village Permits and Approvals Fee Schedule for
application and deposit fees.
      (3)   Deposits may be increased by the village for complicated or larger
projects.
      (4)   Unused deposits as determined by the village will be returned upon
the village's approval of the work.
      (5)   Additional application or permit fees may be required by Akron Air
Quality.
   (C)   Village standards.
      (1)   See the village standard storm water drawings for pollution
prevention requirements. All projects require some level of storm water
pollution prevention.
      (2)   If the overall project impacts one acre or more, a permit is also
required from the Summit County or Portage County Soil and Water Conservation
District. Submittals and permit requirements to be coordinated directly with
the appropriate county Soil and Water Conservation District. The Soil and Water
Conservation District may require the submittal of a Notice of Intent to the
EPA.
      (3)   Work impacting wetlands or riparian setbacks requires special
consideration.
      (4)   Methods to prevent tracking onto roadways are required.
      (5)   If require, village street sweeping will be charged back to the
owner through the deposit.
      (6)   Disturbed areas shall be repaired with a minimum of three inches of
screened topsoil, a high quality residential seed mix, mulching and watering/
fertilizer as needed to ensure full germination within 60 calendar days.
   (D)   Inspections.
      (1)   Periodic site visits by Fire Department and/or the Village
Engineer.
      (2)   The Summit County Building Department may require a site
inspection.
      (3)   Akron Air Quality may perform an inspection.
      (4)   Inspection by the Soil and Water Conservation District or EPA
possible.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.210 CLEARING (IN WETLANDS, RIPARIAN AREAS OR FLOOD PLAINS).
   (A)   Zoning permit application.
      (1)   Submit a zoning permit application to Village Clerk (with fees and
deposit).
      (2)   The application materials shall include a Floodplain and Storm
water Pollution Prevention Acknowledgment Form
      (3)   Submit neat drawings of proposed work (see sample work plan).
      (4)   The drawings must indicate clearing limits and show proposed
methods of preventing offsite migration of sediment.
      (5)   The Village Engineer reviews the zoning application.
      (6)   There is no need for a separate permit for clearing if clearing was
shown and approved as part of an overall site plan review.
   (B)   Village fees.
      (1)   Zoning permit application fee required.
      (2)   Deposits are required to cover direct costs to the village and
provide money for the village to correct sub-standard or incomplete work
(within the R/W). Refer to the Village Permits and Approvals Fee Schedule for
application and deposit fees.
      (3)   Deposits may be increased by the village for complicated or larger
projects.
      (4)   Unused deposits as determined by the village will be returned upon
the village's approval of the work.
   (C)   Village standards.
      (1)   See the village standard storm water drawings for pollution
prevention requirements. All projects require some level of storm water
pollution prevention.
      (2)   A Floodplain and Stormwater Acknowledgment Form are required.
      (3)   If the overall project impacts one acre or more, a permit is also
required from the Summit County or Portage County Soil and Water Conservation
District. Submittals and permit requirements to be coordinated directly with
the appropriate county Soil and Water Conservation District. The Soil and Water
Conservation District may require the submittal of a Notice of Intent to the
EPA.
      (4)   Work impacting wetlands or riparian setbacks requires special
consideration.
      (5)   Methods to prevent tracking onto roadways are required.
      (6)   If required, village street sweeping will be charged back to the
owner through the deposit.
      (7)   Disturbed areas shall be repaired with a minimum of three inches of
screened topsoil, a high quality residential seed mix, mulching and watering/
fertilizer as needed to ensure full germination within 60 calendar days.
   (D)   Inspections.
      (1)   Periodic inspection by the Village Engineer.
      (2)   Inspection by the Soil and Water Conservation District or EPA
possible.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.211 INSTALLING OR REPLACING A FENCE.
   (A)   Zoning permit application.
      (1)   No fence shall be erected in any district until a permit for such
purpose has been issued by the village. Application for said permit shall be
made in writing by the property owner and shall be accompanied by plans or
drawings showing the actual shape and dimension of the lot, the location of all
buildings on the lot as well as the location of all buildings on immediately
adjacent lots. These plans or drawings shall also show the exact location of
the proposed fence as well as its height, length, type of material, and type of
construction. The Zoning Inspector shall have 14 days from the date of
submission to approve or reject the plans. The Zoning Inspector must approve
the plans before a permit may be issued.
      (2)   Drawings must be prepared by a surveyor with property corners
located or have adjacent owner's contact information to confirm that the
adjacent owner(s) agree with the location of the proposed fence. Replacing a
fence that was previously located on property owned by another shall not be
allowed.
      (3)   To obtain a permit, the applicant must submit a zoning permit
application to Village Clerk (with fees and deposit).
      (4)   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to determine
the location of property lines and to ascertain that the fence thus constructed
does not deviate from the plans as approved and does not encroach upon another
lot or parcel of land. The village shall furnish such inspection as is deemed
necessary to determine that said fence is constructed in accordance with the
plans submitted for permit. However, the issuance of said permit by the village
shall not be construed to mean the village has determined said fence is not
encroaching upon another lot, nor shall it relieve the property owner of the
duty imposed upon him herein.
      (5)   The applicant shall stake proposed fence location one week prior to
installation to allow neighbors and the village to view the proposed fence
location.
      (6)   The Zoning Inspector reviews the proposed fence zoning application.
      (7)   There is no need for a separate permit for a fence if fencing was
shown and approved as part of an overall site plan review.
      (8)   Fences installed on the property of others shall be removed or
relocated at the applicant's expense.
   (B)   Village fees.
      (1)   Zoning permit application fee required.
      (2)   Deposits are required to cover direct costs to the village and
provide money for the village to correct sub-standard or incomplete work
(within the R/W). Refer to the Village Permits and Approvals Fee Schedule for
application and deposit fees.
      (3)   Deposits may be increased by the village for complicated or larger
projects.
      (4)   Unused deposits as determined by the village will be returned upon
the village's approval of the work.
   (C)   Village standards.
      (1)   The contractor performing excavations within the village is
required to contact OUPS, OGPUP, 811 or individual utilities as required to
locate and protect underground facilities. Record drawings are not exact and
care should be used when excavating near utilities shown on plans or marked in
the field. The village should be contacted directly for the location of storm
sewers.
      (2)   Disturbed areas shall be repaired with a minimum of three inches of
screened topsoil, a high quality residential seed mix, mulching and watering/
fertilizer as needed to ensure full germination within 60 calendar days.
      (3)   In all zoning districts except PUD's with specific fencing
requirements, fencing shall comply with the requirements/information below:
         (a)   Definitions.
            FENCE. Any barrier composed of wood, steel, iron, masonry, stone,
shrubbery (or any other plantings) or other material erected or planted in such
a manner or location as to divide, enclose or partially enclose an area as a
protective, screening or decorative measure or device.
            PRIVACY FENCE. Any fence which inhibits public view and provides
seclusion. When viewed at right angles to its vertical-plane, a PRIVACY FENCE
has more than 50% of the area of its vertical plane closed to light or air.
            BASKET WEAVE or WOVEN FENCE. A fence made of interwoven strips or
slats of wood in which the pattern has the appearance of a plaited basket.
            LOUVER or VENTILATING FENCE. A fence made of a series of slats
placed at an angle or positioned so as to provide for the passage of air but
deflects light at right angles to its vertical
plane.
            OPEN ORNAMENTAL FENCE. A fence constructed for its beauty or
decorative effect and, when viewed at right angles to its vertical plane, has
no more than 35% of the area of its vertical plane closed to light or air.
            RAIL or SPLIT RAIL FENCE. A fence constructed of narrow, whole or
split, wooden timbers placed horizontally between upright supporting posts.
            PICKET FENCE. A fence made of upright pales or slats, which has
40%, or more of the area of its vertical plane open to air or light.
            CHAIN LINK FENCE. A fence consisting of loops of wire
interconnected in a series of joined links. A CHAIN LINK FENCE is not an open
ornamental fence.
            BARBED WIRE FENCE. A fence made with wire having sharp points or
barbs along its length.
            STOCKADE or PALISADE FENCE. A fence constructed with a row of large
pointed stakes placed upright against each other and having more than 50% of
the area of its vertical plane closed to air or light.
            LIVING FENCE. A fence consisting of hedges, shrubs, trees, bushes,
or plants or any combination thereof.
            FENCE HEIGHT. The height of a fence shall be determined by its
height above the natural grade.
            ELECTRIFIED FENCE. Any fence to which an electric current has been
applied.
         (b)   Permitted fences.
            1.   Front yards. Only open ornamental, picket, or living fences
are permitted in front yards of Residential, Central Business and Commercial
Districts. These fences shall be erected parallel to the building line but no
closer than one foot to the right-of-way line. These fences shall also be
erected on or parallel to the side property lines. Living fences must be set
back sufficiently so that new or existing growth does not cross property lines.
The height of front yard fences shall not exceed three feet.
            2.   Interior side yards and rear yards. Open ornamental, living,
privacy, basket weave, woven, louver, ventilating, rail or split rail, picket,
stockade and chain link fences are only permitted in interior side yards and
rear yards of Residential, Central Business and Commercial Districts. All shall
be erected on or parallel to side and rear property lines with the exception of
living fences which must be set back sufficiently so that new or existing
growth does not cross property lines. The height of interior side yard and rear
yard fences shall not exceed six feet.
            3.   Corner lots. On corner lots, the sideline abutting the street
line shall be considered as a front property line, i.e. a street right-of-way
line, for fencing purposes. Consequently, all fences constructed on corner lot
sidelines, which abut a street line, shall comply with all requirements of
front yards as set forth in division (C)(3)(b) of this section.
            4.   Through lots. On through lots, where the rear property line is
a right-of-way line on another street, the rear property line shall be
considered as a front property line, i.e. a street right-of-way line, for
fencing purposes. Consequently, all fences constructed on through lot rear
property lines and abutting sidelines shall comply with all the requirements of
front yards as set forth in division (C)(3)(b) of this section.
            5.   Restricted fences. Electrified fences are not permitted in the
village. No person shall erect or maintain a barbed wire fence, which abuts or
is adjacent to any public street or sidewalk. Barbed wire may be added above a
chain-link fence provided the lowest wire is 72 inches above the ground and
there are no more than three strands (or a single coil) of barbed wire. Razor
wire is not allowed within the village. Barbed wire partition fences may be
erected and maintained as provided in R.C. § 971.03.
            6.   Similar fences. The Zoning Inspector may permit other fences,
which are similar in character and design to one or more of the fences
permitted by this section.
      (4)   Maintenance. Permitted fences shall be maintained in good
condition, be structurally sound and attractively finished. Grounds between
fences and property lines shall be well maintained. All non-living fences shall
be constructed so that the supporting members of the fence face the owner of
the fence. Fences and retaining walls or similar structures shall be anchored
firmly in the ground, shall be constructed in a workmanlike manner and
maintained in the same manner so the fences, retaining walls or similar
structures shall always be in a good state of repair. In the alternative, these
structures shall be removed or replaced. All fences shall be treated
periodically with typical maintenance chemicals or paint so as to retard
deterioration, unless such surface deterioration is superficial and considered
an enhancement to the appearance.
      (5)   Submittals for improvements in zoning districts that employ
cohesive layout, design, aesthetic and architectural standards to achieve an
inherent look or feel will be subjected to a higher level of architectural and
design review to ensure compliance with the definition of the zoning district
and maintain the character of the area that current occupants support and
expect (e.g. PUD's and Central Business District).
   (D)   Inspections.
      (1)   Provide the village notice of preliminary staking (if applicable)
and 48 hour (two business days) notice of work to allow scheduling of
installation inspection.
      (2)   Inspection by Zoning Inspector.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.212 PATIO INSTALLATION, EXPANSION OR REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   Zoning permit application.
      (1)   Submit a zoning permit application to Village Clerk (with fees and
deposit).
      (2)   Submit neat drawings of proposed work (see sample patio plan).
      (3)   Provide a drawing of property lines and building locations.
      (4)   The Zoning Inspector reviews the proposed patio zoning application.
      (5)   There is no need for a separate permit for a patio if the patio was
shown and approved as part of an overall site plan review.
   (B)   Village fees.
      (1)   Zoning permit application fee required.
      (2)   Deposits are required to cover direct costs to the village and
provide money for the village to correct sub-standard or incomplete work
(within the R/W). Refer to the Village Permits and Approvals Fee Schedule for
application and deposit fees.
      (3)   Deposits may be increased by the village for complicated or larger
projects.
      (4)   Unused deposits as determined by the village will be returned upon
the village's approval of the work.
   (C)   Village standards.
      (1)   The general requirements of this chapter apply to all work covered
by this section.
      (2)   Refer to district regulations (R-1, R-2, CB etc.) for district
specific regulations and standards.
      (3)   Patios shall slope away from structures.
      (4)   Patios shall not unreasonably direct water to a neighboring
property.
      (5)   Patios shall freely drain to prevent ponding and ice formation.
      (6)   The village may require a curbed section or supplemental drainage
to prevent ponding and direct water to a suitable location.
      (7)   Submittals for improvements in zoning districts that employ
cohesive layout, design, aesthetic and architectural standards to achieve an
inherent look or feel will be subjected to a higher level of architectural and
design review to ensure compliance with the definition of the zoning district
and maintain the character of the area that current occupants support and
expect (e.g. PUD's and Central Business District).
      (8)   Disturbed areas shall be repaired with a minimum of three inches of
screened topsoil, a high quality residential seed mix, mulching and watering/
fertilizer as needed to ensure foil germination within 60 calendar days.
   (D)   Inspections.
      (1)   Provide the village a 48 hour (two business days) notice of work to
allow a pre-installation inspection.
      (2)   Inspection by Zoning Inspector.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.213 PORCH, DECK, GARAGE OR SHED INSTALLATION OR REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   Zoning permit application.
      (1)   Submit a zoning permit application to Village Clerk (with fees and
deposit).
      (2)   The application materials shall include a Floodplain and Storm
water Pollution Prevention Acknowledgment Form.
      (3)   Submit neat drawings of proposed work (see sample work plan).
      (4)   Provide a layout drawing including property lines and building
locations.
      (5)   Provide details of footings, building elevations (may be from
manufacturer literature, contractor plans etc.) and materials.
      (6)   The Zoning Inspector reviews the proposed structure zoning
application.
      (7)   There is no need for a separate permit for a structure that was
shown and approved as part of an overall site plan review.
      (8)   If the structure is more than 200 square feet, the applicant is to
obtain a building permit from Summit County. Portage County does not issue
building permits within the village.
      (9)   If the project will involve flow to an existing or proposed on-site
sewage or septic system, the applicant must provide an approval from the either
the Portage County or Summit County Health Department, as applicable.
   (B)   Village fees.
      (1)   Zoning permit application fee required.
      (2)   Deposits are required to cover direct costs to the village and
provide money for the village to correct sub-standard or incomplete work
(within the R/W). Refer to the Village Permits and Approvals Fee Schedule for
application and deposit fees.
      (3)   Deposits may be increased by the village for complicated or larger
projects.
      (4)   Unused deposits as determined by the village will be returned upon
the village's approval of the work.
   (C)   Village standards.
      (1)   The general requirements of this chapter apply to all work covered
by this section.
      (2)   Refer to district regulations (R-1, R-2, CB etc.) for district
specific regulations and standards.
      (3)   The contractor performing excavations within the village is
required to contact OUPS, OGPUP, 811 or individual utilities as required to
locate and protect underground facilities. Record drawings are not exact and
care should be used when excavating near utilities shown on plans or marked in
the field. The village should be contacted directly for the location of storm
sewers.
      (4)   If the proposed structure encroaches on wetlands, riparian setbacks
or floodplains, the Zoning Inspector may involve the Village Engineer to
coordinate additional construction limitations and permitting requirements.
      (5)   Decks and porches shall be in proportion to the main structure.
      (6)   The structures and associated grading shall not direct run-off to
neighboring properties.
      (7)   Submittals for improvements in zoning districts that employ
cohesive layout, design, aesthetic and architectural standards to achieve an
inherent look or feel will be subjected to a higher level of architectural and
design review to ensure compliance with the definition of the zoning district
and maintain the character of the area that current occupants support and
expect (e.g. PUD's and Central Business District).
      (8)   Comply with Summit County Building Department standards.
      (9)   Disturbed areas shall be repaired with a minimum of three inches of
screened topsoil, a high quality residential seed mix, mulching and watering/
fertilizer as needed to ensure full germination within 60 calendar days.
      (10)   All decks extending from the second story of any structure, or
above, shall maintain a clearance of at least six feet above the surface of the
ground for all portions of the deck within ten feet of the structure.
   (D)   Inspections.
      (1)   Provide the village a one week notice of work to allow a pre-
installation inspection of the proposed layout and impacts on neighboring
properties.
      (2)   The Summit County Building Department is responsible for
construction inspection.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18; Am. Ord. 2023-65, passed 9-6-23) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.214 RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION/ADDITION.
   (A)   Zoning permit application.
      (1)   Submit a zoning permit application to Village Clerk (with fees and
deposit).
      (2)   The application materials shall include a Floodplain and Stormwater
Pollution Prevention Acknowledgment Form.
      (3)   Submit neat drawings of proposed site work (see site plan
checklist).
      (4)   Provide drawings of exterior building elevations with finishes and
colors.
      (5)   The Village Engineer reviews the proposed structure zoning
application.
      (6)   If included in the approved site plan, separate clearing, grading,
driveway, ditch enclosure, sidewalk, fence and deck/patio approvals are not
required.
      (7)   Separate right-of-way permit(s) are required for utility service
connections.
      (8)   The applicant is required to obtain a building permit from Summit
County. Portage County does not issue building permits within the village.
      (9)   If the disturbance is greater than one acre, a review and approval
by the Summit Soil and Water Conservation District is required.
      (10)   If the project will involve flow to an existing or proposed on-
site sewage or septic system, the applicant must provide an approval from the
either the Portage County or Summit County Health Department, as applicable.
      (11)   Applicant should indicate whether there is reason to believe the
work is within a floodplain, wetland or riparian setback.
   (B)   Village fees.
      (1)   Zoning permit application fee required.
      (2)   Deposits are required to cover direct costs to the village and
provide money for the village to correct sub-standard or incomplete work
(within the R/W). Refer to the Village Permits and Approvals Fee Schedule for
application and deposit fees.
      (3)   Deposits may be increased by the village for complicated or larger
projects.
      (4)   Unused deposits as determined by the village will be returned upon
the village's approval of the work.
   (C)   Village standards.
      (1)   The general requirements of this chapter apply to all work covered
by this section.
      (2)   Refer to district regulations (R-1, R-2, CB etc.) for district
specific regulations and standards.
      (3)   The contractor performing excavations within the village is
required to contact OUPS, OGPUP, 811 or individual utilities as required to
locate and protect underground facilities. Record drawings are not exact and
care should be used when excavating near utilities shown on plans or marked in
the field. The village should be contacted directly for the location of storm
sewers.
      (4)   The contractor perforating work within the village is responsible
for worker and public safety. Compliance with 29 CFR 1926 Subpart P and OSHA
excavation requirements are the responsibility of the contractor performing the
work.
      (5)   Structure setbacks and size must meet the Mogadore Code.
      (6)   The structures and associated grading shall not direct run-off to
neighboring properties. Supplemental yard drains that were not on the approved
site plan may be required based on field conditions.
      (7)   Ditching and drive pipes may be required to promote drainage for
the area (not just the subject property).
      (8)   Grading between houses shall be at a 1.5% minimum slope to prevent
ponding. Localized high points and sumps with yard drains will be required.
      (9)   Initial grading along basement walls shall be installed four inches
higher than the proposed final grade to account for settlement.
      (10)   Ground cover disturbances less than an acre will require site
specific sediment and erosion controls such as silt fence, inlet protection
check dams etc.
      (11)   If the proposed structure encroaches on wetlands, riparian
setbacks or floodplains, the Village Engineer will impose additional
construction limitations and permitting requirements.
      (12)   Driveways and sidewalks must meet the village standards.
      (13)   Submittals for improvements in zoning districts that employ
cohesive layout, design, aesthetic and architectural standards to achieve an
inherent look or feel will be subjected to a higher level of architectural and
design review to ensure compliance with the definition of the zoning district
and maintain the character of the area that current occupants support and
expect (e.g. PUD's and Central Business District).
      (14)   The corners of all lots developed or created shall have all
corners pinned by a licensed surveyor.
      (15)   Comply with Summit County Building Department standards.
      (16)   Disturbed areas shall be repaired with a minimum of three inches
of screened topsoil, a high quality residential seed mix, mulching and
watering/fertilizer as needed to ensure full germination within 60 calendar
days.
   (D)   Inspections.
      (1)   Provide the village a 48 hour (two business days) notice prior to
basement or footing excavation to allow a pre-installation inspection of the
proposed layout (setbacks).
      (2)   Provide the village a 48 hour (two business days) notice prior to
pouring drives and walks to allow a pre-pour inspection.
      (3)   Provide the village a one week notice prior to final grading to
allow rough grading (drainage patterns) to be inspected and corrected prior to
placement of topsoil.
      (4)   The Summit County Building Department is responsible for all
building construction inspections.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.215 COMMERCIAL, INDUSTRIAL, CENTRAL BUSINESS OR MULTI-FAMILY
CONSTRUCTION/ADDITION.
   (A)   Zoning permit application.
      (1)   Submit a zoning permit application to Village Clerk (with fees and
deposit).
      (2)   The application materials shall include a Floodplain and Storm
water Pollution Prevention Acknowledgment Form.
      (3)   Approval of architectural upgrades (new facades, repainting, new
awnings, new storefronts, new finishes etc.) is required for properties within
the Central Business District and Planned Unit Developments.
      (4)   Submit neat drawings of proposed site work (see site plan
checklist).
      (5)   Provide drawings of exterior building elevations with finishes and
colors.
      (6)   Provide information relative to proposed fire prevention/protection
systems as well as ingress/egress diagrams.
      (7)   The Planning Commission, Fire Department and Village Engineer
review the zoning application for the proposed structure or addition.
      (8)   The applicant is required to obtain a building permit from Summit
County. Portage County does not issue building permits within the village.
      (9)   If the disturbance is greater than one acre, a review and approval
by the Summit Soil and Water Conservation District is required.
      (10)   Applicant should indicate whether there is reason to believe the
work is within a floodplain, wetland or riparian setback.
      (11)   Application materials shall include information pertaining to
hours of business operation, number of employees, parking facilities, overnight
parking, site lighting, impacts on neighboring property uses, delivery
frequency and size of trucks, chemical storage, odors, outdoor storage and the
intended general use/occupancy of the property.
   (B)   Village fees.
      (1)   Zoning permit application fee required.
      (2)   Deposits are required to cover direct costs to the village and
provide money for the village to correct sub-standard or incomplete work
(within the R/W). Refer to the Village Permits and Approvals Fee Schedule for
application and deposit fees.
      (3)   Deposits may be increased by the village for complicated or larger
projects.
      (4)   Unused deposits as determined by the village will be returned upon
the village's approval of the work.
   (C)   Village standards.
      (1)   The general requirements of this chapter apply to all work covered
by this section.
      (2)   Refer to district regulations (R-1, R-2, CB etc.) for district
specific regulations and standards.
      (3)   The contractor performing excavations within the village is
required to contact OUPS, OGPUP, 811 or individual utilities as required to
locate and protect underground facilities. Record drawings are not exact and
care should be used when excavating near utilities shown on plans or marked in
the field. The village should be contacted directly for the location of storm
sewers.
      (4)   The contractor performing work within the village is responsible
for worker and public safety. Compliance with 29 CFR 1926 Subpart P and OSHA
excavation requirements are the responsibility of the contractor performing the
work.
      (5)   Structure setbacks and size must meet the Mogadore Code.
      (6)   Fire lanes, hydrant requirements etc. must meet the approval of the
Mogadore Fire Department.
      (7)   A village approved rapid entry key retention box shall be provided.
      (8)   The structures and associated grading shall not direct run-off to
neighboring properties. Supplemental yard drains that were not on the approved
site plan may be required based on field conditions.
      (9)   Ditching and drive pipes may be required to promote drainage for
the area (not just the subject property).
      (10)   If the proposed structure encroaches on wetlands, riparian
setbacks or floodplains, the Village Engineer will impose additional
construction limitations and permitting requirements.
      (11)   Driveways and sidewalks must meet the village standards.
      (12)   Parking and lighting provisions must be detailed.
      (13)   Submittals for improvements in zoning districts that employ
cohesive layout, design, aesthetic and architectural standards to achieve an
inherent look or feel will be subjected to a higher level of architectural and
design review to ensure compliance with the definition of the zoning district
and maintain the character of the area that current occupants support and
expect (e.g. PUD's and Central Business District).
      (14)   Comply with village sign requirements.
      (15)   The corners of all lots developed or created shall have all
corners pinned by a licensed surveyor.
      (16)   Comply with Summit County Building Department standards.
      (17)   Disturbed areas shall be repaired with a minimum of three inches
of screened topsoil, a high quality residential seed mix, mulching and
watering/fertilizer as needed to ensure foil germination within 60 calendar
days.
   (D)   Inspections.
      (1)   Provide the village a 48 hour (two business days) notice prior to
basement or footing excavation to allow a pre-installation inspection of the
proposed layout (setbacks).
      (2)   Provide the village a 48 hour (two business days) notice prior to
pouring drives and walks to allow a pre-pour inspection.
      (3)   Provide the Summit County Building Department with the required
notice to schedule fire system inspection and testing activities. Provide the
Mogadore Fire Department a 24 hour notice of any scheduled fire system
inspections.
      (4)   Provide the village a one week notice prior to final grading to
allow rough grading (drainage patterns) to be inspected and corrected prior to
placement of topsoil.
      (5)   The Summit County Building Department is responsible for building
construction inspections.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.216 COMMERCIAL, INDUSTRIAL, CENTRAL BUSINESS OR MULTI-FAMILY REVISED USE.
   (A)   Zoning permit application.
      (1)   Submit a zoning permit application to Village Clerk (with fees and
deposit).
      (2)   Approval of architectural upgrades (new facades, repainting, new
awnings, new storefronts, new finishes etc.) is required for properties within
the Central Business District and Planned Unit Developments.
      (3)   Submit information regarding the revised use and detail how the
revised use is consistent with the current zoning.
      (4)   Submit information regarding proposed ulterior and exterior
modifications.
      (5)   Submit information regarding parking requirements and traffic
impacts.
      (6)   Provide information relative to proposed fire prevention/protection
systems as well as ingress/egress diagrams.
      (7)   The Planning Commission and Fire Department review the revised use
zoning application.
      (8)   The applicant may be required to obtain a building permit from
Summit County. Portage County does not issue building permits within the
village.
      (9)   Application materials shall include information pertaining to hours
of business operation, number of employees, parking facilities, overnight
parking, site lighting, impacts on neighboring property uses, delivery
frequency and size of trucks, chemical storage, odors, outdoor storage and the
intended general use/occupancy of the property.
   (B)   Village fees.
      (1)   Zoning permit application fee required.
      (2)   Deposits are required to cover direct costs to the village and
provide money for the village to correct sub-standard or incomplete work
(within the R/W). Refer to the Village Permits and Approvals Fee Schedule for
application and deposit fees.
      (3)   Deposits may be increased by the village for complicated or larger
projects.
      (4)   Unused deposits as determined by the village will be returned upon
the village's approval of the work.
   (C)   Village standards.
      (1)   The general requirements of this chapter apply to all work covered
by this section.
      (2)   Refer to district regulations (R-1, R-2, CB etc.) for district
specific regulations and standards.
      (3)   The contractor performing work within the village is responsible
for worker and public safety. Compliance with 29 CFR 1926 Subpart P and OSHA
excavation requirements are the responsibility of the contractor performing the
work.
      (4)   Fire lanes, hydrant requirements etc. must meet the approval of the
Mogadore Fire Department.
      (5)   A village approved rapid entry key retention box shall be provided.
      (6)   The proposed fire suppression/prevention systems must be approved
by the Summit County Building Department. Ingress/egress must be acceptable to
both the Summit County Building Department and the Mogadore Fire Department.
      (7)   The revised use is to be consistent with the subject zoning
district.
      (8)   Submittals for improvements in zoning districts that employ
cohesive layout, design, aesthetic and architectural standards to achieve an
inherent look or feel will be subjected to a higher level of architectural and
design review to ensure compliance with the definition of the zoning district
and maintain the character of the area that current occupants support and
expect (e.g. PUD's and Central Business District).
      (9)   Comply with Summit County Building Department standards.
   (D)   Inspections.
      (1)   Provide the Summit County Building Department with the required
notice to schedule fire system inspection and testing activities. Provide the
Mogadore Fire Department a 24 hour notice of any scheduled fire system
inspections.
      (2)   The Summit County Building Department is responsible for all
building construction inspections.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.217 COMMERCIAL, INDUSTRIAL, MULTI-FAMILY OR CENTRAL BUSINESS FIRE
PREVENTION/ACCESS REVISIONS.
   (A)   Zoning permit application.
      (1)   This approval is required if modifications affect ingress/egress.
Changing stairwells, walling off doorways, closing off hallways etc. fall into
this category. The addition, update or removal of a fire suppression system
also requires a zoning permit.
      (2)   Submit a zoning permit application to Village Clerk (with fees and
deposit).
      (3)   Submit information regarding proposed modifications.
      (4)   Provide information relative to proposed fire prevention/protection
systems as well as ingress/egress diagrams.
      (5)   The Planning Commission and Fire Department review the zoning
application.
      (6)   The applicant will be required to obtain a Building Permit from
Summit County.
   (B)   Village fees.
      (1)   Zoning permit application fee required.
      (2)   Deposits are required to cover direct costs to the village and
provide money for the village to correct sub-standard or incomplete work
(within the R/W). Refer to the Village Permits and Approvals Fee Schedule for
application and deposit fees.
      (3)   Deposits may be increased by the village for complicated or larger
projects.
      (4)   Unused deposits as determined by the village will be returned upon
the village's approval of the work.
   (C)   Village standards.
      (1)   The general requirements of this chapter apply to all work covered
by this section.
      (2)   Refer to district regulations (R-1, R-2, CB etc.) for district
specific regulations and standards.
      (3)   Fire lanes, hydrant requirements etc. must meet the approval of the
Mogadore Fire Department.
      (4)   A village approved rapid entry key retention box shall be provided.
      (5)   The proposed fire suppression/prevention systems must be approved
by the Summit County Building Department. Ingress/egress must be acceptable to
both the Summit County Building Department and the Mogadore Fire Department.
      (6)   Comply with Summit County Building Department standards.
   (D)   Inspections.
      (1)   Provide the Summit County Building Department with the required
notice to schedule fire system inspection and testing activities. Provide the
Mogadore Fire Department a 24 hour notice of any scheduled fire system
inspections.
      (2)   Notify the Mogadore Fire Department when ingress/egress
modifications are roughed in to allow a site visit to confirm compliance.
      (3)   Comply with Summit County inspections relative to fire systems.
      (4)   The Summit County Building Department is responsible for all
building construction inspections.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.218 SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS.
   (A)   Zoning permit application.
      (1)   No sign shall be erected or altered except as otherwise provided
for in this subchapter unless a sign permit has been issued by the village.
      (2)   Submit a zoning permit application to Village Clerk (with fees and
deposit).
      (3)   Submit neat drawings of proposed sign(s) or billboard.
      (4)   Show right-of-way lines and the edge of pavement on a site plan to
allow the impacts on driver visibility to be considered.
      (5)   Drawings to be to scale and in color.
      (6)   Photographs of similar or identical structures are recommended.
      (7)   The Planning Commission reviews the proposed sign(s) and billboard
zoning application.
      (8)   The applicant is required to coordinate the need to obtain a
building permit from Summit County to address structural and electrical design/
installation.
   (B)   Village fees.
      (1)   Zoning permit application fee required.
      (2)   Deposits are required to cover direct costs to the village and
provide money for the village to correct sub-standard or incomplete work
(within the R/W). Refer to the Village Permits and Approvals Fee Schedule for
application and deposit fees.
      (3)   Deposits may be increased by the village for complicated or larger
projects.
      (4)   Unused deposits as determined by the village will be returned upon
the village's approval of the work.
   (C)   Village standards.
      (1)   The general requirements of this chapter apply to all work covered
by this section.
      (2)   The contractor performing excavations within the village is
required to contact OUPS, OGPUP, 811 or individual utilities as required to
locate and protect underground facilities. Record drawings are not exact and
care should be used when excavating near utilities shown on plans or marked in
the field. The village should be contacted directly for the location of storm
sewers.
      (3)   Sign regulations, including provisions controlling the type,
design, size and location thereof, are established to protect property values
and promote safer residential, commercial and industrial districts by:
         (a)   Promoting clarity in sign communications;
         (b)   Balancing sign communications so that competition for prominence
does not lead to unreasonably confusing or conflicting collections of messages;
         (c)   Promoting a harmonious relationship between sign types, sign
sizes, sign locations and land uses; and
         (d)   Protecting the public health, safety and welfare from the
hazards resulting from indiscriminate placement.
      (4)   Signs shall not block the view of oncoming traffic when motorists
enter the roadway.
      (5)   Submittals for signs or billboards in zoning districts that employ
cohesive layout, design, aesthetic and architectural standards to achieve an
inherent look or feel will be subjected to a higher level of architectural and
design review to ensure compliance with the definition of the zoning district
and maintain the character of the area that current occupants support and
expect (e.g. PUD's and Central Business District).
      (6)   Comply with Summit County Building Department standards.
      (7)   Signs and outdoor advertising displays shall be constructed and
erected by such materials and in such a manner that the construction, supports
and bracing thereof will safely support the weight of such signs and outdoor
advertising.
      (8)   No sign or outdoor advertising display shall be placed, erected or
maintained so as to obstruct, in any manner, any fire escape, window, door,
entrance or exit to or from any building.
      (9)   No sign or outdoor advertising display shall be supported, braced
or guyed from or to a public sidewalk, street, alley or public thoroughfare.
      (10)   All signs and outdoor advertising displays shall be erected so
that all parts thereof, including cables, guys, braces, supports, etc. will not
be less than 24 inches from public utility electric conductors carrying not
more than 600 volts and, with the approval of the Village Building and Zoning
Inspector, not less than 36 inches from conductors carrying more than 600
volts. This provision shall not apply to electric conductors which serve the
sign or outdoor advertising display.
      (11)   All signs and outdoor advertising displays, including all their
supporting features, shall be kept in a safe condition and shall be
sufficiently painted or otherwise protected to prevent deterioration.
      (12)   Signs, billboards and outdoor advertising displays which are not
maintained properly to insure their safe condition or which have become unsafe
shall be properly repaired or painted, or removed, when so ordered by the
Building and Zoning Inspector.
   (D)   Interpretation.
      (1)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of these
sign regulations as most recently amended, shall be held to be the minimum
requirements.
      (2)   The provisions herein shall not amend or in any way interfere with
other codes, rules or regulations governing signs within the municipality.
Whenever there is a conflict between any provisions of any adopted ordinance,
the more restrictive provision shall govern.
   (E)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning. Words use in the present tense shall include the future. The
word "shall" is mandatory and not directory; the word building shall include
the word "structure"; the word "used" shall include the words "arranged",
"designed", "constructed", "altered", "converted" or "intended to be used" and
a "person" shall mean, in addition to an individual, a firm, corporation,
association or any legal entity which may own and/or use land or buildings. In
addition to the specific definitions herein, the definitions of terms as set
forth in previous sections of this chapter shall also be applied.
      ANNOUNCEMENT SIGN. A sign directing attention to the use or event of a
public or quasi-public institution and located upon the premises of the
institution.
      BILLBOARD. A sign used to advertise a business, commodity or service
conducted elsewhere than on the premises on which the billboard is located.
      BUILDING AND ZONING INSPECTOR. The Building and Zoning Inspector of the
Village of Mogadore, Ohio, its chief enforcement official or his regularly
authorized deputy.
      BULLETIN BOARD. A changeable announcement sign directing attention to the
use or event of a public or quasi-public institution and located on the
premises of the institution.
      BUSINESS SIGN. A sign which directs attention to the name of the business
or establishment, the goods or commodities sold and/or services rendered on the
premises on which the sign is located.
      IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A sign indicating the name and/or nature of the use
of the property on which the sign is located.
      ILLUMINATED SIGN. A sign illuminated by gas, electricity or other
artificial light including reflected or phosphorescent light.
      NAME PLATE. A sign indicating the name, address and/or title of the
owner, renter or lessee of the premises on which the sign is located.
      POLE SIGN. Any freestanding sign supported by poles, posts or other
uprights, having the area for display purposes at least ten feet above the
grade at the base of the supports, and completely free of and not attached to
any building, and has no more than four upright supports.
      PROJECTING SIGN. Any sign attached to a building or other structure and
which extends beyond the line of such building or structure in such a manner
that the exposed face or faces of the sign are generally perpendicular to or at
an angle to the plane of the wall or the building or structure to which such
sign is attached.
      REAL ESTATE SIGN. A sign directing attention to the promotion,
development, rental, sale or lease or property on which the sign is located or
a sign indicating the name of the development.
      ROOF SIGN. Any sign erected, constructed and maintained upon or over the
roof or parapet wall of any building, and having its principal support on the
roof or walls of the building.
      SAFETY SIGN. A sign alerting the public to certain hazards.
      SIGN. Any structure, vehicle, trailer, device, or natural objects such as
a tree, rock, bush and the ground itself, or part thereof, or device attached
thereto or painted or represented thereon, which shall be used to attract
attention to any object, product, place, activity, person, institution,
organization or business, or which shall display or include any letter, word,
banner, flag, pennant, insignia, device or representation used as, or which is
in the nature of an announcement, direction or advertisement. For the purpose
of this subchapter the word SIGN does not include the American Flag, the
insignia of any government, governmental agency or any charitable organization.
      SIGN AREA. That surface area which is included by a line drawn to
surround all elements of the communication where those elements are said to
include lettering, accent color, pattern or texture areas and/or other
background features which are not a usual part of another structure.
      SIGN, ILLUMINATED. Any light, string of lights, or group of lights
located or arranged to cast illumination on a sign.
      SIGN, OFF PREMISES. Any sign unrelated to a business or profession
conducted, or to a commodity or service sold or offered upon the premises upon
which the sign is located.
      SIGN, ON PREMISES. Any sign related to a business or profession
conducted, or to a commodity or service sold or offered upon the premises upon
which the sign is located.
      TEMPORARY SIGN. A sign not intended for permanent use.
      WALL SIGN. Any sign painted on, attached to or erected against the wall
of a building or structure having the exposed face of the sign in a plane
parallel to the plane of such wall.
   (F)   Nonconformance.
      (1)   The purpose of this section is to provide for the continuation of
those signs that do not conform to the existing sign regulations, but which are
installed prior to the enactment of this chapter.
      (2)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the construction of a
nonconforming sign for which a sign permit has been issued prior to the
effective date of this section, or any amendment thereto, providing that
construction is completed within 90 days after the issuance of the sign permit.
      (3)   Whenever a nonconforming use has been discontinued, any further
sign shall be in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
      (4)   Whenever the boundaries of a district shall be changed as to
transfer an area from one district to another of a different classification,
the foregoing provisions shall also apply to any nonconforming signs existing
therein.
   (G)   Violations.
      (1)   Any sign erected or altered which does not conform to the
provisions of this subchapter is a violation.
      (2)   Any person may file a complaint in regard to an alleged violation
of this subchapter. All such complaints shall be in writing and shall be filed
with the Building and Zoning Inspector, which shall properly record and
investigate the alleged violation.
      (3)   If the Building and Zoning Inspector finds that any of the
provisions of this subchapter are being violated, he shall notify the person
responsible for such violations of the nature of the violations. He shall order
cessation of the illegal use and shall take any other action as is reasonably
necessary to insure that the sign will comply with the provisions of this
subchapter. After notice of the violation has been served or posted on the
premises no work shall be performed except to correct the violation.
      (4)   All violations shall be corrected within a reasonable period after
the written order has been issued or for a longer period of time as indicated
by the Building and Zoning Inspector in the written order. Any party
responsible for violations not corrected within the specified period of time
may be prosecuted. (Ord. passed 12-11-90)
   (H)   Appeals. Any person, firm or corporation aggrieved by the action of
the Zoning Inspector may take an appeal to the Board of Zoning Appeals. (Ord.
passed 12-11-90)
   (I)   General restrictions for permitted signs.
      (1)   Safety signs, including those providing information, warnings,
prohibition or commands which promote or protect the safety of pedestrians or
vehicles are permitted only when provided or approved by the Building and
Zoning Inspector.
      (2)   Light sources to illuminate signs may be direct or indirect but the
source of light shall not be visible. Illumination shall not be of excessive
brightness or cause glare hazardous to pedestrians or vehicular traffic, or be
objectionable to adjacent residential districts. Flashing, moving or
intermittent illumination and outline lighting shall not be permitted. Within
100 feet of an intersection lights cannot duplicate the colors of a traffic
light. Signs in residential districts shall not be illuminated, except for
nameplates and for bulletin boards for institutions. All signs in business and
industrial districts may be illuminated.
      (3)   Projecting signs, roof signs, pennants, banners and flags, except
as otherwise stated in this subchapter are not permitted.
      (4)   Signs shall not obstruct windows, doors or fire escapes.
      (5)   Signs shall not obstruct traffic sight lines, traffic sign signals
at railroad grade crossings or other safety signs.
      (6)   Business signs visible from the street shall not in any way
resemble any safety sign.
      (7)   No signs shall be erected, placed or over hung in a public right-
of-way except those signs provided or approved by the Building and Zoning
Inspector and those signs affixed to the surface of a mailbox located in a
public right-of-way.
      (8)   No wall sign shall project beyond the ends of top of the building
wall to which it is attached nor shall the face of the sign be set out more
than one foot from the face of the building to which it is attached.
      (9)   Signs must be maintained in good repair at all times.
      (10)   All signs and portions thereof shall be stationary.
      (11)   Pennants, banners and flags shall be applied for and approved by
the Building and Zoning Inspector. None of these shall be placed so as to
create a hazard for traffic. None may be displayed for a period longer than 30
days prior to announced events and must be removed not later than five days
following the event. The fee may be waived for civic groups at the discretion
of the Village Clerk-Treasurer; however, failure to comply with the
aforementioned regulations will constitute a termination of the privilege.
      (12)   Political campaign signs advertising candidates or issues may be
permitted for a period not exceeding 30 days before the election concerned and
shall be removed within five days after the election. The area of one sign
shall not exceed ten square feet.
      (13)   Portable signs shall be applied for and approved by the Building
and Zoning Inspector upon payment of a $20 permit fee. None of these signs
shall be placed so as to create a traffic hazard. These signs may be displayed
for a period of seven days. After the sign has been displayed for seven days,
it must be removed from the property for at least 60 days. At this point, the
process starts over again, i.e. with a new permit. (Ord. passed 12-11-90)
   (J)   Signs permitted in Residential Districts. Only the following signs are
permitted in the R-1, R-2, and R-3 Districts.
      (1)   One name plate not exceeding one square foot in area shall be
permitted for each dwelling.
      (2)   A church, school, community center or other public or institutional
building, or quasi-public building for its own use may erect one announcement
sign or bulletin board not over 40 square feet in area.
      (3)   One temporary unlighted real estate sign not exceeding six square
feet in area pertaining only to the sale, lease, or rent of the particular
building, property, or premises upon which displayed. Such signs shall be
removed within two weeks of the completion of the sale, lease, or rental.
      (4)   One temporary real estate sign advertising the development of the
premises upon which it stands or the opening of a new subdivision within which
such sign is located may be located and maintained upon the issuance of a
temporary six-month renewable zoning certificate. Such sign shall be removed
from the premises no later than 30 days after the sale or rental of the
premises or at such time that 70% of the subdivision's lots are occupied by
structures or 70% of the units within the development are occupied. Such sign
shall not exceed 50 square feet in area per side and shall not be located
closer than 25 feet to any street right-of-way.
      (5)   One identification sign indicating the name and address of multi-
family apartment developments. Such signs shall not exceed ten square feet in
area and shall not be located closer than six feet to the street right-of-way
nor closer to any side lot line than ten feet. (Ord. passed 12-11-90; Am. Ord.
12, passed 4-5-00)
   (K)   Signs permitted in Commercial Districts. The following signs are
permitted in C-1 District provided no business sign shall be located closer
than 25 feet to any lot located in the R District, and except as provided
elsewhere in this chapter.
      (1)   All signs as permitted in Residential Districts.
      (2)   One exterior wall sign may be erected which advertises a business
or service conducted upon the premises and/or advertises products, merchandise
or commodities stocked and sold on the premises, except that a building on a
corner lot or at the end of a block of buildings may have one sign for each of
two building sides. Such sign may be affixed flat against the wall of buildings
with the face of the sign no more than one foot from the surface of the wall.
No wall sign shall be extended beyond the surfaces of the building.
      (3)   One pole sign which advertises a business or service conducted upon
the premises or advertises products, merchandise or commodities stocked and
sold on the premises may be permitted, provided such sign shall not have an
area of more than 40 square feet per side. A pole type business sign shall be
no more than 25 feet in height. (Ord. passed 12-11-90)
   (L)   Signs permitted in Industrial Districts. The following signs are
permitted in the I District, provided no sign shall be located closer than 25
feet to any lot located in the R District.
      (1)   All signs as permitted in Residential Districts.
      (2)   One exterior wall sign may be erected which advertises an
industrial activity conducted upon the premises or advertises products,
merchandise or commodities produced on the premises. Such sign shall be affixed
flat against the wall of the building. No sign shall extend beyond the face of
the building to which it is attached. See §
152.074 for sign area.
      (3)   One pole sign which advertises an industrial activity conducted
upon the premises and/or advertises products, merchandise or commodities
produced on the premises may be permitted. Such sign shall not have an area of
more than 20 square feet per side. Such sign shall be set back no less than
one-half the required yard depth and shall not exceed 20 feet in height. (Ord.
passed 12-11-90)
   (M)   Maximum sign area. The following are the maximum sign areas for C-
1 and I Districts:
Building Frontage Maximum Sign Area
(Feet)            (Square Feet)
Under 15          25
15-19             30
20-24             35
25-29             40
30-34             45
35-39             50
40-44             55
45-49             60
50-54             65
55-59             70
60-64             75
65-69             80
70 and over       100+5 for each additional 10 feet of frontage or fraction
                  thereof.
 
(Ord. passed 12-11-90)
   (N)   Conditionally permitted signs.
      (1)   Any application for a conditional sign permit shall be submitted in
accordance with the following procedures:
      (2)   Application shall be made to the Planning Commission.
      (3)   The application shall include the following information:
         (a)   A plot plan or building elevations drawn to scale showing the
locations and dimensions for all business signs.
         (b)   A description and drawings indicating the color, style,
materials and lighting of the proposed signs.
         (c)   Any other pertinent data as may be deemed necessary by the
Planning Commission for the proper enforcement of this chapter.
      (4)   The application shall be accompanied by the payment of a fee which
shall be determined by Council.
      (5)   The application shall be reviewed by Planning Commission in
accordance with the provisions of this section.
      (6)   Upon completion of the review, the Planning Commission may approve,
approve with modification or deny the request for a conditional sign permit. If
approved, the Planning Commission shall direct the Clerk-Treasurer to issue a
conditional sign permit. If the request for a conditional sign permit is
denied, the applicant shall be informed of the reason.
      (7)   Upon approval of a conditionally permitted sign shall become void
at the expiration of six months after the date of issuance if the proposed sign
has not been erected. (Ord. passed 12-11-90)
      (8)   Upon completion of the review, the Planning Commission may approve,
approve with modification or deny the request for a conditional sign permit. If
approved, the Planning Commission shall direct the Clerk-Treasurer to issue a
conditional sign permit. If the request for a conditional sign permit is
denied, the applicant shall be informed of the reason.
   (O)   Sign maintenance and repair.
      (1)   Sign maintenance and repair required. Every sign including, but not
limited to, those signs for which permits or for which no permits or permit
fees are required, shall be maintained in a safe, presentable and good
structural condition at all times, including the replacement of defective
parts, painting, repainting, cleaning, and other acts required for the
maintenance of such sign. The Building and Zoning Inspector shall require
compliance with all standards of this chapter. If the sign is not made to
comply with adequate safety standards, the Building and Zoning Inspector shall
require its removal in accordance with this section.
      (2)   Abandoned signs prohibited. Except as otherwise provided in this
chapter, any sign which is located on property which becomes vacant or
unoccupied, or any sign which pertains to a time, event or purpose which no
longer applies, shall be deemed to have been abandoned. An abandoned sign is
prohibited and shall be removed by the owner of the sign or owner of the
premises.
      (3)   Dangerous or defective signs prohibited. No person shall maintain
or permit to be maintained on any premises owned or controlled by him any sign
which is in a dangerous or defective condition. Any such sign shall be removed
or repaired by the owner of the premises.
   (P)   Removal of signs by Building Department.
      (1)   The Building and Zoning Inspector shall cause to be removed any
sign that endangers the public safety such as an abandoned, dangerous or
materially, electrically or structurally defective sign or a sign for which no
permit has been issued. The Building and Zoning Inspector shall prepare a
notice which shall describe the sign and specify the violation involved and
which shall state that if the sign is not removed or the violation is not
corrected within ten days the sign shall be removed in accordance with the
provisions of this section.
      (2)   All notices mailed by the Building and Zoning Inspector shall be
sent by certified mail. Any time periods provided in this section shall be
deemed to commence on the date of the receipt of the certified mail.
Notwithstanding the above, in cases of emergency the Building and Zoning
Inspector may cause the immediate removal of a dangerous or defective sign
without notice.
   (Q)   Disposal of signs; costs; assessments; penalties.
      (1)   Any sign removed by the Building and Zoning Inspector pursuant to
the provisions of this section shall become the property of the village and may
be disposed of in any manner deemed appropriate by the village. The cost of
removal of the sign by the village shall be considered a debt owed to the
village by the owner of the sign and the owner of the property, and may be
recovered in an appropriate court action by the village or by assessment
against the property as hereinafter provided. The cost of removal shall include
any and all incidental expenses incurred by the village in connection with the
sign's removal. When it is determined by the Building and Zoning Inspector that
such sign would cause an imminent danger to the public safety, and contact
cannot be made with a sign owner or building owner, no written notice shall
have to be served. In this emergency situation, the Building and Zoning
Inspector may correct the danger, all costs being assessed as contained in the
following divisions.
      (2)   The notice given by the Building and Zoning inspector shall state
not only the remedial action required to be taken, but shall also state that if
such action is not taken within the time limits set forth in this chapter, the
cost of correcting the unlawful feature of the sign may be assessed against the
property on which the sign is located, together with the additional 5% for
inspection and incidental costs and an additional 10% penalty for the cost of
collection, and collected in the same manner as real estate against the
property.
      (3)   In the event the owner of the premises or person entitled to the
possession, or the owner of the sign fails, neglects or refuses to comply with
the notice to repair, rehabilitate or demolish the sign declared to be
unlawful, the owner of the sign, the owner of the premises upon which the sign
is located and the person entitled to possession thereof, if other than the
owner of the premises, or all or any of them, may be prosecuted for violation
of this chapter. The Building and Zoning Inspector may remove the sign declared
to be unlawful.
      (4)   If it is necessary for the Building and Zoning Inspector to remove
a sign pursuant to the provisions hereof, bids shall be taken when the
estimated costs of demolition exceed $1,000. When completed, the Building and
Zoning Inspector shall certify to the Clerk the legal description of the
property upon which the work was done, together with the name of the owner
thereof, as shown by the tax rolls of the related municipal area, together with
a statement of work performed, the date of performance and the cost thereof.
      (5)   Upon receipt of such statement, the Clerk shall mail a notice to
the owner of the premises as shown by the tax rolls, at the address shown upon
the tax rolls, by certified mail, postage prepaid, notifying such owner that
the work has been performed pursuant to this chapter, stating the date of
performance of the work, the nature of the work and demanding payments of the
costs thereof, as certified by the Building and Zoning Inspector, together with
5% for the inspection and the other incidental costs in connection therewith.
Such notice shall state that if such amount is not paid within 30 days of
mailing the notice, it shall become an assessment upon and a lien against the
property of such owner, describing the same, and will be certified as an
assessment against the property of such owner, together with a 10% penalty for
collection in the same manner as the real estate taxes upon the property.
      (6)   If the Clerk does not receive payment within a period of 30 days
following the mailing of such notice, the Clerk shall inform Council of such
fact and Council shall thereupon enact a resolution assessing the whole cost of
such work, including 5% for inspection and other incidental costs in connection
therewith upon the lots and tracts of land from which the sign has been
removed, together with a 10% penalty for the cost of collection.
      (7)   Following passage of such resolution upon a third reading, the
Clerk shall certify the same to the County Auditor who shall collect the
assessment, including the 10% penalty of cost for collection, in the same
manner as other taxes are collected.
      (8)   Each such assessment shall be a lien against each lot or tract of
land assessed until paid and shall have priority over all other liens except
general taxes and prior special assessments.
      (9)   For all purposes hereinafter the owner of the premises shall be
presumed to be the owner of all signs thereon, unless the contrary shall appear
from facts brought to the attention of the Building and Zoning Inspector. (Ord.
passed 12-11-90)
   (R)   Inspections.
      (1)   Preliminary field staking of the sign or billboard locations is
required to allow the village to approve the location prior to the installation
of electrical conduit or foundations. For monument signs, stake all four
comers.
      (2)   Provide the village a 48 hour (two business days) notice prior to
foundation excavation to allow a pre-installation inspection of the final
location.
      (3)   The Summit County Building Department is responsible for
construction inspection.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 150.219 P – PARK.
   (A)   Zoning permit application.
      (1)   Submit a zoning permit application to Village Clerk (fees waived).
      (2)   Note that grading plans must be approved prior to earthwork
activities.
      (3)   Prior to any clearing, applicant must determine whether there is
reason to believe the work is within a floodplain, wetland or riparian setback.
      (4)   The application materials shall include a Floodplain and Storm
water Pollution Prevention Acknowledgment Form.
      (5)   Submit neat, scaled drawings of proposed site work. Drawing should
show property lines, easements, existing and proposed grading and drainage,
utilities, drives and improvements.
      (6)   Drawings should include pavement/drive composition, drainage,
lighting, tree removal, proposed landscaping, fencing, storage areas, dumpster
locations and other site features. Provide manufacturer data sheets when
possible.
      (7)   Provide drawings of exterior building elevations with finishes and
colors.
      (8)   For structures, provide information relative to proposed fire
prevention/protection systems as well as ingress/egress diagrams.
      (9)   The Parks and Recreation Board, Planning Commission, Fire
Department and Village Engineer would review the zoning application.
      (10)   For structures or electrical work, the applicant is required to
obtain a building permit from Summit County. Portage County does not issue
building permits within the village.
      (11)   If the disturbance is greater than one acre, a review and approval
by the Summit Soil and Water Conservation District is required.
      (12)   Application materials shall include information pertaining to
hours of business operation, number of employees, parking facilities, overnight
parking, site lighting, impacts on neighboring property uses, delivery
frequency and size of trucks, and the intended general use/occupancy of the
property.
   (B)   Village fees. Zoning permit application fee is waived.
   (C)   Village standards.
      (1)   Refer to the Village of Mogadore Code section relative to zoning
designation, P-1.
      (2)   Structure setbacks and size must meet the Mogadore Code.
      (3)   Fire lanes, hydrant requirements etc. must meet the approval of the
Mogadore Fire Department.
      (4)   Grading shall not direct run-off to neighboring properties.
Supplemental yard drains that were not on the approved site plan may be
required based on field conditions.
      (5)   Ditching, supplemental drains and drive pipes may be required to
promote drainage for the area (not just the subject property).
      (6)   Comply with village sign requirements.
      (7)   Comply with Summit County Building Department standards.
   (D)   Inspections.
      (1)   Provide the village a 48 hour (two business days) notice prior to
basement or footing excavation to allow a pre-installation inspection of the
proposed layout (setbacks).
      (2)   Provide the village a 48 hour (two business days) notice prior to
pouring drives and walks to allow a pre-pour inspection.
      (3)   Provide the Summit County Building Department with the required
notice to schedule fire system inspection and testing activities. Provide the
Mogadore Fire Department a 24 hour notice of any scheduled fire system
inspections.
      (4)   Provide the village a one week notice prior to final grading to
allow rough grading (drainage patterns) to be inspected and corrected prior to
placement of topsoil.
      (5)   The Summit County Building Department is responsible for building
construction inspections.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.221 MAIL BOX INSTALLATION OR REPLACEMENT (POST ONLY).
   (A)   Right-of-way permit application (to allow work within village R/W).
      (1)   Many of the village streets include storm/pavement subgrade drains
behind the curb. A permit is required to ensure that these critical drainage
pipes aren't damaged during mailbox installation.
      (2)   Submit a right-of-way permit application to Village Clerk (with
fees and deposit).
      (3)   Submit neat drawings of proposed mailbox location. Show distance
from intersections, hydrants, drives etc. Drawings should indicate the size and
depth of the proposed post hole and the means of anchoring the post.
      (4)   A zoning permit is not required.
      (5)   The Zoning Inspector reviews the application.
   (B)   Village fees. Right-of-way permit application fee and other fees/
deposits described in the latest Village Permits and Approvals Fee Schedule
required with application submittal.
   (C)   Village standards.
      (1)   The individual performing excavations within the village is
required to contact OUPS, OGPUP, 811 or individual utilities as required to
locate and protect underground facilities. Record drawings are not exact and
care should be used when excavating near utilities shown on plans or marked in
the field. The village should be contacted directly for the location of storm
sewers.
      (2)   Hand dig all mailbox post holes within the village.
      (3)   Refer to the village "Mailbox Installation" detail for minimum
clearances from the curb.
      (4)   Any drainage pipe or structure damaged must be completely repaired
at the cost of the property owner.
      (5)   Provide a minimum of 12 inches of clearance between the drain pipe
and the post and any concrete backfill used to anchor the post.
   (D)   Inspections.
      (1)   The Village Zoning Inspector will inspect the work.
      (2)   Failure to repair a damaged pipe will result in a loss of deposit
and require the village to repair the drain pipe and possibly re-locate the
mailbox post.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.223 PRIVATE POOLS.
   (A)   Zoning permit application.
      (1)   Submit a zoning permit application to Village Clerk (with fees and
deposit).
      (2)   Submit neat drawings of proposed pool location with distances from
property lines, fences and buildings shown.
      (3)   Submit pool dimensions and materials of construction
(manufacturer's data sheets if available).
      (4)   Show fencing limits, type of fencing and fence support details.
      (5)   Describe pool access and lighting.
      (6)   The Zoning Inspector reviews the proposed pool zoning application.
   (B)   Village fees.
      (1)   Zoning permit application fee required.
      (2)   Deposits are required to cover direct costs to the village and
provide money for the village to correct sub-standard or incomplete work
(within the R/W). Refer to the Village Permits and Approvals Fee Schedule for
application and deposit fees.
      (3)   Deposits may be increased by the village for complicated or larger
projects.
      (4)   Unused deposits as determined by the village will be returned upon
the village's approval of the work.
   (C)   Village standards.
      (1)   No person shall locate, construct, install or maintain any swimming
pool or make any change in such a pool or appurtenance thereof, unless and
until such person shall have submitted an application and plans therefor, and
shall have secured a permit and authorization from the Zoning Inspector.
      (2)   No person shall locate, construct, install, make, change, maintain
or use a private swimming pool on premises unless said pool on premises meets
the following conditions:
         (a)   Private swimming pools, whether in-ground or above ground in
construction, shall be considered and are hereby deemed to be an accessory
structure and shall, accordingly, comply with all provisions of this chapter
applicable to accessory structures.
         (b)   All such swimming pools shall be completely enclosed by a fence
not less than five feet in height. Such fence shall be constructed so as to
have no openings, holes, or gaps larger than two inches in any dimension,
expect for doors or gates which shall be equipped with a self-latching devise
to prevent unauthorized intrusion. Accessory buildings may be used in or as
part of such enclosure.
         (c)   Above ground private swimming pools having vertical surfaces of
at least five feet in height shall be required to have enclosing fences and
gates of a minimum of five feet in height only where access may be had to such
pool.
   (D)   Inspections.
      (1)   Provide the village a 48 hour (two business days) notice of work to
allow a pre-installation inspection.
      (2)   Post construction inspection by Zoning Inspector.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.224 TREELAWN LANDSCAPING OR PLANTINGS.
   (A)   Right-of-way permit application (to allow work within village R/W).
      (1)   The term "treelawn" for the purposes of this section of the Code
shall mean any unpaved area within the village right-of-way (whether there is a
sidewalk on not).
      (2)   Submit a right-of-way permit application to Village Clerk (with
fees and deposit).
      (3)   Submit neat drawings of proposed plantings and features. Show
distance from intersections, hydrants, drives etc. Provide data sheets for
proposed trees/plantings.
      (4)   A zoning permit is not required.
      (5)   The Village Engineer and Planning Commission review the permit
application.
   (B)   Village fees. Right-of-way permit application fee and other fees/
deposits described in the latest Village Permits and Approvals Fee Schedule
required with application submittal.
   (C)   Village standards.
      (1)   Many of the village streets include storm/pavement subgrade drains
behind the curb. The tendency of roots to migrate into and plug drains may be
cause for the denial of requests to plant trees or vegetation within the tree-
lawn (devil's strip).
      (2)   No trees except those hereafter designated shall be planted in a
"devil strip". Trees permitted: Trident Maple (Acer buergerianum), Amur Maple
(Acer ginnala), Paperback Maple (Acer griseum), Tatarian Maple (Acer
tataricum), Red Buckeye (Aesculus pavia), Serviceberry - tree form (Amelanchier
sp.), Lavalle Hawthorn (Crataegus x lavallei), Green Hawthorn (Crataegus
viridis 'Winter King'), Amur Maackia (Maackia amurensis), Crabapple (Malus sp.
- oval or upright forms and cultivars only), Persian Parrotia - tree form
(Parrotia persica), Japanese Tree Lilac (Syringa retculata).
      (3)   No trees or vegetation, whether mentioned in this section or not,
shall be allowed to grow or develop or be placed in such a way as to intrude
upon, impede, or obstruct the sidewalk, the pavement, the safe travel of motor
vehicles or pedestrians.
      (4)   The village shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain, and
remove trees, plants, and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys,
avenues, lanes, squares, and public grounds, as may be necessary to insure
public safety or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public
grounds.
      (5)   Corner clearance. At any corner, no obstruction to view in excess
of two feet in height shall be placed within a triangle formed by the street
right-of-way lines and a line connecting them at a point 30 feet form the
intersection of said right-of-way lines. Every owner of any tree overhanging
any street or right-of-way within the village shall prune the branches so that
such branches shall not obstruct the light from any street lamp or obstruct the
view of any street intersection and so that there shall be a clear space of
eight feet above the surface of the sidewalk and a clear space of 12 feet above
the portion of a street outside the curb or that portion of a street or right-
of-way subject to vehicular traffic. Said owners shall remove all dead,
diseased, or dangerous trees, or dead, broken, decayed or dangerous limbs which
constitute a menace to the safety of the public. The village shall have the
right to prune any tree or shrub on private property when it interferes with
the proper spread of light along the street from a street light, interferes
with the ability of drivers to see other drivers or pedestrians or interferes
with visibility of any traffic-control devise or sign.
      (6)   Dead, diseased or dangerous tree or limb removal on private
property. The village shall have the right to cause the removal of any dead,
diseased or dangerous trees or dead, broken, decayed or dangerous limbs on
private property within the village, when such trees or limbs constitute a
hazard to life and property, or harbor insects or disease which constitute a
potential threat to other trees within the village. The Clerk-Treasurer or
Zoning Inspector will notify in writing the owners of such trees. Removal shall
be done by said owners at their own expense within 45 days after the date of
service of notice. In the event of failure of owners to comply with such
provisions, the village shall have the authority to remove such trees and
charge the cost of the removal on the owner's property tax notice.
      (7)   Removal of stumps. All stumps shall be removed below the surface of
the ground to facilitate landscaping.
      (8)   Disturbed areas shall be repaired with a minimum of three inches of
screened topsoil, a high quality residential seed mix, mulching and watering/
fertilizer as needed to ensure full germination within 60 calendar days.
   (D)   Inspections.
      (1)   The Village Zoning Inspector and/or the Village Engineer will
inspect the work. Unacceptable plantings or landscaping must be addressed by
the property owner. Failure to correct unacceptable plantings will result in a
loss of deposit and may result in the removal and restoration of the treelawn
by village forces.
      (2)   Refer to §
93.60 of the Mogadore Village Code regarding the maintenance of vegetation
adjacent to roadways.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18; Am. Ord. 2024-31, passed 5-1-24) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.225 OVERSIZED LOAD (COMMERCIAL AND HEAVY VEHICLES).
   (A)   Permit application.
      (1)   Upon application and for good cause of the oversize load permit,
the Village Engineer may issue a local permit authorizing an applicant to move
an oversize or overweight vehicle or combination of vehicles upon local
streets.
      (2)   No permittee shall be required to obtain a special permit from the
Ohio Director of Transportation for the movement of the vehicle or combination
of vehicles on streets or highways under local jurisdiction; however, the
approval of the Ohio Director of Transportation shall be required for movement
upon state routes.
      (3)   The Village Engineer may grant a permit for a single or round trip,
or for such period of time, in his discretion deems advisable, or for the
duration of any construction project. The Village Engineer may limit or
prescribe terms or conditions of operation for such vehicle or combination of
vehicles by designating the route, hours, speed or such other restrictions as
may be necessary for the preservation of the public peace, property, health and
safety.
      (4)   Violation of any of the limitations, terms or conditions of the
permit shall be cause for immediate revocation or suspension of such permit,
and denial of request for any future permit. Such violation shall also subject
the violator to penalties.
      (1)   Oversize load permit application fee and deposit are required.
      (2)   Deposits are required to cover direct costs to the village and
provide money for the village to repair any damage to village infrastructure
caused by the oversized load. Refer to the Village Permits and Approvals Fee
Schedule for application and deposit fees.
      (3)   Deposits may be increased by the village for complicated or larger
projects.
      (4)   Unused deposits as determined by the village will be returned upon
the village's approval of the work.
   (C)   Village standards.
      (1)   No person shall operate or move a vehicle or combination of
vehicles of a size or weight of vehicle or load exceeding the maximum specified
in R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, inclusive, or otherwise not in conformity with
R.C. §§ 4513.01 to 4513.37, inclusive, upon any state route within the village,
except pursuant to special written permit issued by the Ohio Director of
Transportation, or upon any local truck route. Every such permit shall be
carried in the vehicle or combination of vehicles to which it refers and shall
be open to inspection by any police officer.
      (2)   No holder of a permit issued by the Ohio Director of Transportation
shall be required to obtain any local permit or license or pay any local fee or
charge for movement on any state route within the village.
      (3)   No person shall operate a vehicle exceeding a gross weight of four
tons, upon any street in the village other than a state route, except those
local streets designated as a truck route and marked as such by appropriate
traffic signs, and except when such operation is necessary to load or unload
property, to go to or from the usual place of storage of such vehicle or to
perform any other legitimate business or act other than passage through the
village. Operators of vehicles so deviating from either a state route or a
designated truck route within the village shall confine such deviation to that
required in order to accomplish the purpose of the departure.
      (4)   The driver of a vehicle exceeding the weight authorized under this
section upon entering the village upon a street other than a state or county
route, shall immediately proceed, by the shortest way possible, to the nearest
state or county route leading in the direction in which such vehicle is
proceeding.
      (5)   No such vehicle shall have a width in excess of:
         (a)   102 inches, excluding such safety devices as are required by
law, for passenger bus type vehicles operated over freeways, and such other
state roads with minimum pavement widths of 22 feet.
         (b)   132 inches for traction engines.
         (c)   102 inches for recreational vehicles, excluding safety devices
and retracted awnings and other appurtenances of six inches or less in width.
         (d)   102 inches, including load, for all other vehicles.
      (6)   No such vehicle shall have a length in excess of:
         (a)   66 feet for passenger bus type vehicles and articulated
passenger bus type vehicles operated by a regional transit authority pursuant
to R.C. §§ 306.30 to 306.54.
         (b)   45 feet for all other passenger bus type vehicles.
         (c)   53 feet for any semitrailer when operated in a commercial
tractor-semi trailer combination, with or without load.
         (d)   28.5 feet for any semitrailer or trailer when operated in a
commercial tractor-semitrailer-trailer or commercial tractor-semitrailer-
semitrailer combination.
         (e)   97 feet for drive-away saddle mount vehicle transporter
combinations and drive-away saddle mount with full mount vehicle transporter
combinations when operated on any interstate, United States route, or state
route, including reasonable access travel on all other roadways for a distance
not to exceed one road mile from any interstate, United States route, or state
route, not to exceed three saddle mounted vehicles, but which may include one
foil mount.
         (f)   75 feet for drive-away saddle mount vehicle transporter
combinations and drive-away saddle mount with foil mount vehicle transporter
combinations, when operated on any roadway not designated as an interstate,
United States route, or state route, not to exceed three saddle mounted
vehicles, but which may include one foil mount.
         (g)   65 feet for any other combination of vehicles coupled together,
with or without load, except as provided in divisions (C)(3) and (C)(4) and (C)
(5) of this section.
         (h)   45 feet for recreational vehicles.
         (i)   40 feet for all other vehicles except trailers and semitrailers,
with or without load.
      (7)   No such vehicle shall have a height in excess of 13 feet six
inches, with or without load.
      (8)   An automobile transporter or boat transporter shall be allowed a
length of 65 feet and a stinger-steered automobile transporter or stinger-
steered boat transporter shall be allowed a length of 75 feet, except that the
load thereon may extend no more than four feet beyond the rear of such vehicles
and may extend no more than three feet beyond the front of such vehicles, and
except farther that the Director may prohibit the operation of any stinger-
steered automobile transporter or stinger-steered boat transporter or a B-train
assembly on any state highway or portion thereof that the Director designates.
      (9)   The widths prescribed shall not include side mirrors, turn signal
lamps, marker lamps, handholds for cab entry and egress, flexible fender
extensions, mud flaps, splash and spray suppressant devices, and load-induced
tire bulge.
      (10)   The width prescribed shall not include automatic covering devices,
tarp and tarp hardware, and tie down assemblies, provided these safety devices
do not extend more than three inches from each side of the vehicle.
      (11)   The lengths prescribed shall not include safety devices, bumpers
attached to the front or rear of such bus or combination, B-train assembly used
between the first and second semitrailer of a commercial tractor-semitrailer-
semitrailer combination, energy conservation devices as provided in any
regulations adopted by the Secretary of the United States Department of
Transportation, or any non cargo-carrying refrigeration equipment attached to
the front of trailers and semitrailers. In special cases, vehicles whose
dimensions exceed those prescribed by this section may operate in accordance
with rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Transportation.
      (12)   This section does not apply to fire engines, fire trucks or other
vehicles or apparatus belonging to any municipal corporation or to the fire
department of any municipal corporation or used by such department in the
discharge of its functions. This section does not apply to vehicles and pole
trailers used in the transportation of wooden and metal poles, nor to the
transportation of pipes or well-drilling equipment, nor to farm machinery and
equipment. The owner or operator of any vehicle, machinery or equipment not
specifically enumerated in this section but the dimensions of which exceed the
dimensions provided by this section, when operating the same on the highways
and streets of this state shall comply with the rules of the Director governing
such movement, which the Director may adopt. R.C. §§ 119.01 to 119.13 apply to
any rules the Director adopts under this section, or the amendment or
rescission thereof, and any person adversely affected shall have the same right
of appeal as provided in those sections.
      (13)   This section does not require the state, the village, county,
township or any railroad or other private corporation to provide sufficient
vertical clearance to permit the operation of such vehicle, or to make any
changes in or about existing structures now crossing streets, roads and other
public thoroughfares in the village.
      (14)   As used in this section, RECREATIONAL VEHICLE has the same meaning
as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      (15)   Drivers of vehicles described in this chapter shall be required,
upon request by a police officer, to give full and true information as to the
route they are following and the name of the consignor and consignee and place
of delivery or removal and the location of any consignment being hauled or
goods being removed, and upon a designation by such police officer of a route
to be followed, shall immediately adopt and pursue such route.
      (16)   Any person operating any vehicle transporting explosives upon a
street or highway shall at all times comply with the following requirements:
         (a)   Such vehicle shall be marked or placarded on each side and on
the rear with the word "EXPLOSIVES" in letters not less than eight inches high,
or there shall be displayed on the rear of such vehicle a red flag not less
than 24 inches square marked with the word "DANGER" in white letters six inches
high, or shall be marked or placarded in accordance with Section 177.823 of the
United States Department of Transportation Regulations.
         (b)   Such vehicle shall be equipped with not less than two fire
extinguishers, filled and ready for immediate use, and placed at convenient
points on such vehicle.
      (17)   When one vehicle is towing another vehicle, the draw bar or other
connection shall be of sufficient strength to pull all weight towed thereby,
and such draw bar or other connection shall not exceed 15 feet from one vehicle
to the other, except the connection between any two vehicles transporting
poles, pipe, machinery or other objects of structural nature which cannot
readily be dismembered.
      (18)   When one vehicle is towing another and the connection consists
only of a chain, rope or cable, there shall be displayed upon such connection a
white flag or cloth not less than 12 inches square.
      (19)   In addition to such draw bar or other connection, each trailer and
each semitrailer which is not connected to a commercial tractor by means of a
fifth wheel shall be coupled with stay chains or cables to the vehicle by which
it is being drawn. The chains or cables shall be of sufficient size and
strength to prevent the towed vehicle's parting from the drawing vehicle in
case the draw bar or other connection should break or become disengaged. In
case of a loaded pole trailer, the connecting pole to the drawing vehicle shall
be coupled to the drawing vehicle with stay chains or cables of sufficient size
and strength to prevent the towed vehicle's parting from the drawing vehicle.
      (20)   Every trailer or semitrailer, except pole and cable trailers and
pole and cable dollies operated by a public utility, as defined in R.C. §
5727.01, shall be equipped with a coupling device which shall be so designed
and constructed that the trailer will follow substantially in the path of the
vehicle drawing it, without whipping or swerving from side to side. Vehicles
used to transport agricultural produce or agricultural production materials
between a local place of storage and supply and the farm, when drawn or towed
on a street or highway at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less, and vehicles
designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage
and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or
highway for a distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 miles per
hour or less shall have a draw bar or other connection, including the hitch
mounted on the towing vehicle, which shall be of sufficient strength to pull
all the weight towed thereby. Only one such vehicle used to transport
agricultural produce or agricultural production materials as provided in this
section may be towed or drawn at one time, except as follows:
         (a)   An agricultural tractor may tow or draw more than one such
vehicle;
         (b)   Pickup truck or straight truck designed by the manufacturer to
carry a load of not less than one-half ton and not more than two tons may tow
or draw not more than two such vehicles that are being used to transport
agricultural produce from the farm to a local place of storage. No vehicle
being so towed by such a pickup truck or straight truck shall be considered to
be a motor vehicle.
      (21)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any highway unless the
vehicle is so constructed, loaded or covered as to prevent any of its load from
dropping, sifting, leaking or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand or
other substance may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water
or other substance may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining the
roadway, except for a farm vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or
agricultural production materials or a rubbish vehicle in the process of
acquiring its load, no vehicle loaded with garbage, swill, cans, bottles,
wastepaper, ashes, refuse, trash, rubbish, waste, wire, paper, cartons, boxes,
glass, solid waste or any other material of any unsanitary nature that is
susceptible to blowing or bouncing from a moving vehicle shall be driven or
moved on any highway unless the load is covered with a sufficient cover to
prevent the load or any part of the load from spilling onto the highway.
      (22)    In addition to any other lawful requirements of load
distribution, no person shall operate any vehicle upon a street or highway
unless such vehicle is so laden as to prevent its contents from shifting or
otherwise unbalancing the vehicle to such an extent as to interfere with the
safe operation of the same.
      (23)   No motor vehicle or trailer shall be driven unless the tailboard
or tailgate, tarpaulins, chains (except ground or contact chains), ropes,
stakes, poles, and the like, or any part of the load, are securely fastened to
prevent dangling, flapping, swinging or falling from the side, end or top of
the load or body. All projecting cargo shall be properly guarded by a red flag
or cloth or a red light or lantern.
      (24)   No person shall drive over the improved streets of this village a
traction engine or tractor with tires or wheels equipped with ice picks, studs,
spikes, chains or other projections of any kind extending beyond the cleats, or
no person shall tow or in any way pull another vehicle over the improved
streets of this village, which towed or pulled vehicle has tires or wheels
equipped with ice picks, studs, spikes, chains or other projections of any
kind. "Traction engine" or "tractor," as used in this section, applies to all
self-propelling engines equipped with metal-tired wheels operated or propelled
by any form of engine, motor or mechanical power.
      (25)   For purposes of this section, STUDDED TIRE means any tire designed
for use on a vehicle, and equipped with metal studs or studs of wear-resisting
material that project beyond the tread of the traction surface of the tire.
This section does not apply to the use of tire chains when there is snow or ice
on the streets or highways where such chains are being used, or the immediate
vicinity thereof.
         (a)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle, other than a public
safety vehicle or bus, that is equipped with studded tires on any street or
highway, except during the period extending from November 1 of each year
through April 15 of the succeeding year. A person may operate a motor vehicle
that is equipped with retractable studded tires with the studs retracted at any
time of the year.
      (26)   Any police officer having reason to believe that the weight of a
vehicle and its load is unlawful may require the driver of such vehicle to stop
and submit to a weighing of it by means of a compact, self-contained, portable,
sealed scale specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of vehicles on
highways; a sealed scale permanently installed in a fixed location, having a
load-receiving element specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of
highway vehicles; a sealed scale permanently installed in a fixed location,
having a load-receiving element specially adapted to determining the combined
load of all wheels on a single axle or on successive axles of a highway
vehicle, or a sealed scale adapted to weighing highway vehicles, loaded or
unloaded. The driver of such vehicle shall, if necessary, be directed to
proceed to the nearest available of such sealed scales to accomplish the
weighing, provided such scales are within three miles of the point where such
vehicle is stopped. Any vehicle stopped in accordance with this section may be
held by the police officer for a reasonable time only to accomplish the
weighing as prescribed by this section. Whenever such officer upon weighing a
vehicle and load determines that the weight is unlawful, he may require the
driver to stop the vehicle in a suitable place and remain standing until such
portion of the load is removed as is necessary to reduce the weight of such
vehicle to the limit permitted.
      (27)   The contractor shall coordinate with the village emergency
dispatch regarding daily changes in the traffic patterns. Contact Village Hall
at 330-628-4896 for the current dispatch phone number.
      (28)   Work on busy roads or bus routes may be restricted to certain
hours of the day.
      (29)   No person shall drive or operate, or cause to be driven or
operated, any commercial car, trailer or semitrailer, used for the
transportation of goods or property, the gross weight of which, with load,
exceeds three tons, upon the streets, bridges and culverts within this village
unless such vehicle is equipped with suitable metal protectors or substantial
flexible flaps on the rear most wheels of such vehicle or combination of
vehicles to prevent, as far as practicable, the wheels from throwing dirt,
water or other materials on the windshields of following vehicles. Such
protectors or flaps shall have a ground clearance of not more than one-third of
the distance from the center of the rear most axle to the center of the flaps
under any conditions of loading of the vehicle, and they shall be at least as
wide as the tires they are protecting. If the vehicle is so designed and
constructed that such requirements are accomplished by means of fenders, body
construction or other means of enclosure, then no such protectors or flaps are
required. Rear wheels not covered at the top by fenders, bodies or other parts
of the vehicle shall be covered at the top by protective means extending at
least to the center line of the rear most axle.
      (30)   The contractor shall not track materials onto village roadways. If
required, village street sweeping will be charged back to the owner through the
deposit.
      (31)   Issues that are not immediately and appropriately addressed by the
contractor will be addressed by village forces. The cost of which shall be
deducted from the deposit.
   (D)   Inspections.
      (1)   The Village Zoning Inspector and/or the Village Engineer will
inspect existing condition of the proposed haul route. If the permit is
approved, at the end of the approved permit the condition of the haul route
will be reevaluated. Any repairs deemed necessary by the Village Zoning
Inspector or Village Engineer will be covered by the restoration deposit.
      (2)   Provide the village 48 hour (two business days) notice of work to
allow scheduling of inspection.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.226 ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING STATIONS.
   (A)   Definitions.
      ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING STATION or EVCS means a public parking space
that is served by battery charging station equipment for the purpose of
transferring electrical energy (by conductive or inductive means) to a battery
or other energy storage device within an electric vehicle.
   (B)   General requirements.
      (1)   These requirements pertain to all EVCS that use either Level 2 or
Level 3 charging equipment. as defined by the U.S. Department of
Transportation. If a charging station has more than one port, each port shall
count as a charging station.
      (2)   The designated parking space(s) for an EVCS shall not be included
in any calculation of parking spaces on a particular site for the purpose of
satisfying the parking requirements imposed by
Chapter 152 of these Codified Ordinances.
      (3)   The recommended parking space dimensions for an EVCS are a minimum
of ten feet wide by 20 feet long when new spaces are installed for such use. An
additional five feet in width shall be required for ADA accessible locations.
      (4)   The EVCS equipment shall be protected by wheel stops and bollards
in accordance with Ohio Fire Code (2017) Section 312, Vehicle Impact
Protection.
      (5)   Each parking space designated for EVCS shall be clearly identified
as reserved for electric vehicle charging only.
      (6)   All EVCS equipment shall not exceed eight feet in height.
      (7)   All EVCS shall not include overhead canopies.
      (8)   All EVCS equipment shall comply with the current National Electric
Code (NEC) and shall be inspected once a year and proof of inspection shall be
made available to the Village Fire Department.
      (9)   All EVCS shall be installed in all locations as follows:
         (a)   Ten feet from property lines;
         (b)   Twenty feet or more from buildings having combustible exterior
wall surfaces; and
         (c)   Ten feet or more from buildings having a one-hour fire resistive
exterior surface.
      (10)   EVCS shall be designed and constructed in accordance with all
applicable state and county codes and these Codified Ordinances.
      (11)   EVCS shall be constructed, operated, and maintained based on
manufacturer's instructions.
      (12)   Any attendants shall be trained in the operation of the EVCS
system and able to supervise and respond to emergencies.
      (13)   EVCS shall be installed with one or more clearly identified
exterior shutoff devices or electrical disconnects with an approved sign
stating, "Emergency Electrical Vehicle Charging System Shutoff."
      (14)   EVCS shall have emergency instructions conspicuously posted in the
area and shall include the following:
         (a)   Use of emergency shutoff button/disconnection device;
         (b)   Report incident by calling 9-1-1; and
         (c)   Report location to emergency services.
      (15)   Emergency shutoff devices or electrical disconnects or the EVCS
charging equipment shall be installed in an approved exterior location
accessible to patrons but not less than 20 feet or more than 30 feet from the
EVCS.
      (16)   Resetting of EVCS charging equipment from an emergency shutoff
condition shall require manual intervention.
      (17)   Lighting of all EVCS shall be selected and installed in accordance
with applicable building codes and local ordinances and shall be sufficient for
safe operation and security.
      (18)   At least one portable fire extinguisher for each group of EVCS
shall be provided and shall not exceed a travel distance of 75 feet.
   (C)   Colocation with motor fuel dispensing equipment.
      (1)   The following installation requirements shall be met when an EVCS
is located in proximity to motor fuel dispensing equipment:
         (a)   Shall be located 20 feet or more in all directions from
dispensing devices for flammable or combustible liquids;
         (b)   Shall be located ten feet in all directions from above ground
and underground storage tanks, tank fill connections, remote and submersible
pump transfer equipment, vapor recovery equipment, and vents; and
         (c)   Shall be located 25 feet in all directions from the location of
tank vehicles while filling and transferring flammable or combustible liquids.
      (2)   EVCS shall be designed so that the pooling of flammable or
combustible liquids cannot occur in the charging area.
      (3)   At attended locations and motor fuel dispensing facilities, an
additional emergency EVCS shutoff or electrical disconnect shall be located at
the attendant's location.
(Ord. 2023-64, passed 9-6-23)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of any provision of this chapter, or any provision of the
County of Summit Building Code, as adopted herein, shall be a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree, with a maximum fine of $250 and 30 days in jail. Every day
during which such violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 73, passed 8-6-08; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
CHAPTER 151: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Title
   
151.002   Definitions
   
151.003   Jurisdiction
   
151.004   Relation to other laws
   
151.005   Planned Unit Developments encouraged; regulations may be modified
   
151.006   Amendments
   
151.007   Interpretation
Procedures
   
151.020   Purpose
   
151.021   Classification and determination of subdivision type
   
151.022   Minor subdivision
   
151.023   Major subdivision
Plan and Plat Specifications
   
151.040   Purpose
   
151.041   Preliminary discussion map
   
151.042   Preliminary plan
   
151.043   Improvement plans and specifications
   
151.044   Final plat
Design Standards
   
151.055   Physical considerations
   
151.056   Streets
   
151.057   Easements
   
151.058   Blocks
   
151.059   Lots
   
151.060   Public sites and open spaces
   
151.061   Conformity with land use and thoroughfare plan when adopted
Improvement Requirements and Specifications
   
151.075   Required improvements
   
151.076   Drainage
   
151.077   Street improvements
   
151.078   Sewer and water facilities
   
151.079   Public sites
   
151.080   Monuments
   
151.081   Oversize and/or off-site improvements
   
151.082   Construction requirements
   
151.083   Agreements and guarantees
Administration and Enforcement
   
151.095   Administration
   
151.096   Recording of plat
   
151.097   Sale of land in subdivision
   
151.098   Revision of plat after approval
   
151.099   Fees
   
151.100   Variances
   
151.101   Appeals
   
151.102   Acceptance ordinance for streets, easements and dedicated open spaces
   
151.103   Enforcement and release of cash bond
   
151.104   Changes and amendments
 
   
151.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Typical Minor Subdivision Map
   
Appendix B:   Application for Preliminary Plan Approval
   
Appendix C:   Preliminary Steps Certification Form
   
Appendix D:   Typical Preliminary Plan Subdivision Map
   
Appendix E:   Application for Final Plat Approval
   
Appendix F:   Typical Plat Subdivision Map
   
Appendix G:   Examples of Certifications and Statements
   
Appendix I:   Typical Planting Plan
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 TITLE.
   These regulations shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the
"Subdivision Regulations of the Village of Mogadore, Ohio," and shall
hereinafter be referred to as "this chapter."
(Ord. 57-1981, passed 10-21-81; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 151.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words
used in singular include the plural. Words used in present tense include the
future tense.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line establishing the limits of a yard which abuts
a street and in which no building may be located.
   CASH BOND. See PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE.
   CONTRACTOR. The contractor is the developer or any person, firm or
corporation undertaking the construction of any or all phases of the work
contained in this chapter.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A local street having one end open to vehicular traffic and the
other end permanently terminated by a vehicular turn around.
   DEAD-END-STREET. A street temporarily having only one outlet for vehicular
traffic and intended to be extended or continued in the future.
   EASEMENT. A grant of the use of land for a specific purpose.
   EMERGENCY ORDINANCE. An ordinance usually acted on immediately with only one
reading and taking effect after the earliest period allowed by law.
   IMPROVEMENTS. Includes, but is not limited to, grading, sanitary and storm
sewers, water mains, pavement, curbs and gutters, sidewalks, street signs,
streetlights, street trees, and the appropriate appurtenances required to
render land suitable for the use proposed.
   INSPECTIONS. See §
151.082.
   LAND USE AND THOROUGHFARE PLAN. Mapped and/or written proposals for the
future development of the area.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot at the point of intersection of and abutting on two
intersecting streets.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot, other than a corner lot, that abuts more than
one street.
   LOT LINES. The boundaries of a lot.
   LOT, PARCEL. A division of land separated or proposed to be separated from
other division of land by description on a recorded subdivision plat, recorded
survey map, or by metes and bounds for purposes of sale, lease, or separate
use.
   MINOR SUBDIVISION. A division of a parcel of land along an existing public
street or road, not involving the opening, widening, or extension of any street
or road, and involving not more than five lots after the original tract has
been completely subdivided.
   MONUMENTS. Permanent concrete or iron markers used to establish definitely
all lines of the plat of a subdivision, including all lot corners, boundary
line corners, and points of change in street alignment.
   ORIGINAL TRACT. A parcel of land as shown on the Portage and/or Summit
County Tax Map Records.
   PEDESTRIAN WALKWAYS. A dedicate public right-of-way limited to pedestrian
use.
   PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE OR BOND. An agreement by a subdivider or developer
with the village for the amount of the estimated construction costs
guaranteeing the completion of physical improvements according to plans and
specifications within the time prescribed by the subdividers agreement.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. An area of land in which a variety of housing
types and/or related commercial and industrial facilities are accommodated in a
pre-planned environment under more flexible standards, such as lot sizes and
setbacks, than those restrictions that would normally apply under these
regulations. The procedure for approval of such development contains
requirements in addition to those of the standard subdivision, such as building
design principles and landscaping plans.
   PLANNING COMMISSION OR COMMISSION. The Village of Mogadore Planing
Commission.
   PLAT. A map prepared by a registered survey or of all or a portion of a
subdivision which, if approved, may be recorded.
   PRELIMINARY PLAN. A drawing prepared by a registered survey or for the
purpose of study of a major subdivision and which, if approved, permits
proceeding with the preparation of the final plat.
   PRIVATE SURVEY PLAT. A map of one or more parcels of land, prepared by a
registered surveyor, for the purpose of providing information necessary or
incident to the transfer of said parcels in cases not requiring the platting of
said parcels.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. Any person, firm, corporation, governmental agency, or board
having a public utility commission permit to furnish under regulations to the
public, electricity, gas, steam, telephone transportation or water, or any
other similar public utilities.
   REGIONAL LAND USE PLAN. A plan showing the proposed location of uses in the
region.
   SECRETARY. Secretary of the Planning Commission.
   SHALL is mandatory and MAY is permissive.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the road right-of-way outside the roadway four
feet or more in width which is improved for the use of pedestrian traffic.
   STAFF. Persons so designated by the Commission.
   STREET. A public or private right-of-way for vehicular and pedestrian use.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any individual firm, association, corporation, trust, or any
legal entity, including agents commencing proceedings under this chapter to
subdivide land.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of any parcel of land shown as a unit or as
contiguous units on the last preceding tax roll, into two or more parcels,
sites, or lots, any one of which is less than five acres for the purpose,
whether immediate or future, of transfer of ownership, provided, however, that
the division or partition of land into parcels of more than five acres not
involving any new streets or easements of access, and the sale or exchange of
parcels between adjoining lot owners, where such sale or exchange does not
create additional building sites, shall be exempted; or the improvement of one
or more parcels of land for residential, commercial, industrial structures or
groups of structures involving the division or allocation of land for the
opening, widening, or extension of any street or streets, except private
streets serving industrial structures; the division or allocation of land as
open spaces for common use by owners, occupants or lease holders or as
easements for the extension and maintenance of public sewer, water, storm
drainage, or other public facilities.
   VARIANCE. A modification of the strict terms of the relevant regulations
where such modifications will not be contrary to the public interest and where
owing to conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the action
of the applicant, a literal enforcement of the regulations would result in an
extraordinary and unnecessary hardship.
   VICINITY MAP. A drawing located on the preliminary plan or plat which sets
forth by dimensions or other means, the relationship of the proposed
subdivision or use to other nearby developments or landmarks and community
facilities and services within the village in order to better locate and orient
the area in question.
   WORK, THE. All work specified herein or indicated on the plans of the
contemplated improvement covered by these regulations and supplemental
agreements thereto.
(Ord. 57-1981, passed 10-21-81; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 151.003 JURISDICTION.
   This chapter shall be applicable to all subdivisions of land within the
village corporation limits only. The Planning Commission shall have the power
of final approval of the plats.
(Ord. 57-1981, passed 10-21-81; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 151.004 RELATION TO OTHER LAWS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall supplement any and all laws of the
State of Ohio, ordinances of the village or any and all rules and regulations
promulgated by authority of such law or ordinance relating to the purpose and
scope of these regulations. Whenever the requirements of these regulations are
at variance with the requirements of any other lawfully adopted rules,
regulations, ordinances or resolutions, the most restrictive or that imposing
the higher standards shall govern except as provided in §
151.005.
(Ord. 57-1981, passed 10-21-81; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 151.005 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS ENCOURAGED; REGULATIONS MAY BE MODIFIED.
   The planned unit development approach to development is greatly encouraged.
These regulations may be modified by the degree necessary to accomplish the
objectives and standards required for the planned unit development of
residential, commercial, or industrial subdivisions, or a mixture thereof, in
accordance with the zoning ordinance. Nothing within this section, however,
shall exempt the developer from the requirements of subdivision plat approval
as specified in §§
151.020 through
151.023.
(Ord. 57-1981, passed 10-21-81; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 151.006 AMENDMENTS.
   This chapter may be amended, after public hearings and other requirements as
specified in the appropriate sections of the Ohio Revised Code.
(Ord. 57-1981, passed 10-21-81; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 151.007 INTERPRETATION.
   The provision of this chapter shall be construed to be minimum requirements.
(Ord. 57-1981, passed 10-21-81; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
PROCEDURES
§ 151.020 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to specify the procedures that shall be
followed to subdivide land.
(Ord. 57-1981, passed 10-21-81; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 151.021 CLASSIFICATION AND DETERMINATION OF SUBDIVISION TYPE.
   There are two basic types of subdivisions:
   (A)   Minor subdivision. The Village Engineer may determine that a proposed
subdivision of land is a minor subdivision if the proposed division of a parcel
of land is along an existing public street, does not involve the opening,
widening or extension of any street or road and does not involve more than five
lots after the original tract has been completely subdivided.
   (B)   Major subdivision. Any subdivision that does not meet the requirements
of a minor subdivision.
(Ord. 57-1981, passed 10-21-81; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 151.022 MINOR SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   Staff granted the authority of review and approval. The Village
Engineer is authorized to represent the Planning Commission in the review and
approval of a minor subdivision, and to end or set the conveyance of a parcel
or parcels of land in a minor subdivision for transfer without plat.
   (B)   Submission of minor subdivision. Any person proposing to create a
minor subdivision shall submit the following to the Village Engineer.
      (1)   A legal description of the parcel or parcels sought to be
transferred on a conveyance of said parcel or parcels.
      (2)   Two copies of a private survey by a registered surveyor of the
parcel or parcels sought to be transferred. (See
Appendix A)
      (3)   Minor subdivision fees. (See §
151.099)
   (C)   Action by the Village Engineer.
      (1)   Within seven working days after submission of a minor subdivision
or within a mutually agreed upon extension, the Village Engineer shall either
approve or disapprove the application for transfer without plat.
      (2)   If the Village Engineer does not approve the transfer without plan,
the applicant shall be notified in writing of the reason for disapproval. If
the Village Engineer approves the transfer without plat, the conveyance shall
be stamped: "Approved by Mogadore Planning Commission; no plat required," and
the signature of the Village Engineer affixed along with the date of such
approval. The approval shall expire within 60 days, unless the conveyances are
recorded in the office of the County Recorder during such period.
   (D)   Action by the County Health Department, Portage or Summit as
appropriate. The Village Engineer shall, within seven days after submission of
a minor subdivision, submit the proposed subdivision to the Health Department
who shall approve or disapprove building sites for individual sewer systems. If
disapproved, the Health Department shall notify the owner of the reasons for
disapproval.
(Ord. 57-1981, passed 10-21-81; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 151.023 MAJOR SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   General procedure. Major subdivision shall be approved n four stages;
preliminary discussion state, preliminary plan stage, improvement plan state,
and the plat stage.
      (1)   The preliminary discussion stage requires the subdivider to discuss
the proposed subdivision with the appropriate agencies so that he can become
familiar with subdivision requirements, existing conditions, and future plans.
      (2)   The preliminary plan stage requires the subdivider to present all
information needed to enable the Commission to determine that the proposed
layout is satisfactory and will serve the public interest. This stage also
insures that the subdivider will not be required to expend excessive monies
without some assurance that his plat will be finally approved.
      (3)   The improvement plan stage requires the subdivider to present all
the information needed to enable the Village Engineer to check the drainage
areas and to determine that the storm sewers, sanitary sewers, waterlines, and
material proposed for street construction meets the requirements of this
chapter and the specifications of the Village Engineer.
      (4)   The final plat stage requires the subdivider to present a complete
survey plat to enable the Commission to determine that the subdivision fully
complied with this chapter and conforms to the approved preliminary plan and
the improvement plans. (See §
151.096 for details.)
   (B)   Preliminary discussion. The subdivider shall consult with the Planning
Commission. He shall submit a preliminary discussion map including all items
required by §
151.041 and shall also obtain a preliminary steps certification form (See
Appendix C) from the Village Engineer, which shall be signed by the agencies
listed on the certification form.
   (C)   Preliminary plan procedure.
      (1)   Submission of preliminary plan. The subdivider shall make
application to the Commission for approval of a preliminary plan. All
information required by §
151.042 shall be submitted to the Village Engineer at least two weeks before
the meeting of the Planning Commission at which the plat is to be acted upon.
         (a)   Two copies of application. (See
Appendix B)
         (b)   One copy of the preliminary steps certification form. (See
Appendix C)
         (c)   Eight copies of the preliminary plan including a vicinity map.
(See
Appendix D)
         (d)   Any other date that the Village Engineer deems necessary.
         (e)   Preliminary plan fees. (See §
151.099)
      (2)   Transmission of preliminary plan.
         (a)   The Village Engineer shall transmit a copy of the preliminary
plan to the following official and agencies for their review and
recommendations. Prior to the Planning Commission meeting, a date on which the
site will be viewed shall be established by the Village Engineer. The officials
and agencies listed below shall be requested to attend this viewing along with
the developer and his engineer.
            1.   The Village Engineer.
            2.   The Planning Commission.
            3.   The School Board.
            4.   The County Planning Commission.
            5.   Park Board.
         (b)   The Village Engineer may transmit additional copies of the
preliminary plan documents to utility companies and others as deemed necessary.
The officials and agencies shall be requested to make their review and
recommendations to the Village Engineer within seven days from the date of
transmission.
      (3)   Official filing of preliminary plan. Upon determination by the
Village Engineer within seven days from the date of transmission.
      (4)   Planning Commission action. The Planning Commission, within 30 days
of the date of official filing shall approve, approve conditionally, or
disapprove the preliminary plan. The action shall be noted on both the
preliminary plan and the preliminary plan application form and a copy of each
returned to the subdivider. The action shall also be entered on the official
records of the Planning Commission and a copy of the preliminary plan with
action noted kept on file.
      (5)   Effect of approval. Approval of a preliminary plan by the Planning
Commission is not an acceptance of the subdivision for record. It is an
approval of a general plan as a guide for the preparation of improvement plans
and a subdivision plat for final approval and recording upon fulfillment of all
requirements of this chapter. Approval of a preliminary plan shall be effective
for a period of one year following the date of approval by the Planning
Commission, unless an extension of time is granted. Upon expiration of a
preliminary plan approval, no approval of a final plat shall be given until the
preliminary plan has been resubmitted and approved. Construction of
improvements shall not begin until action on the final plat has been taken.
(See division (E)(3) below)
   (D)   Improvement plan procedure. The developer's engineer shall prepare
improvement plans which include all phases of the work to be performed to make
the land suitable for development into the use proposed. These plans shall be
complete and precise in all details and be submitted to and approved by the
Village Engineer before any improvements are constructed.
   (E)   Plat procedure.
      (1)   Submission of the plat.
         (a)   The subdivider shall make application to the Planning Commission
for approval of a plat. The plat submitted shall conform to the approved
preliminary plan. Subdivisions may be submitted
for final approval in consecutive sections provided that preliminary plan and
improvement plan approval has been given for the entire subdivision.
         (b)   All items as required by §
151.043 shall be submitted to the Village Engineer as follows:
            1.   Two copies of the application for plat approval. (See
Appendix E)
            2.   Original tracing and two copies of plat and vicinity map. (See
Appendix F)
            3.   Original tracing and four copies of approved improvement
plans.
            4.   Plat fees. (See §
151.099)
            5.   One copy of financial guarantees approved by Village Solicitor
in an amount stated by the Village Engineer.
         (c)   The Village Engineer may request additional copies of any of the
above items and any other additional information deemed necessary. Within five
working days of the date of submission, the Village Engineer shall notify the
subdivider of such omissions.
      (2)   Official filing of plat. The Village Engineer shall present to the
Planning Commission the plat documents, which meet the requirements of §
151.043, at the next meeting after all required documents have been submitted.
Upon determination by the Planning Commission that the plat has been properly
submitted, the Planning Commission shall accept the plat as being officially
filed and shall certify on the copies the date of acceptance.
      (3)   Planning Commission action.
         (a)   The Planning Commission shall approve or disapprove the plat
within 30 days from the date of official filing or within a mutually agreed
upon time extension; otherwise, the plat shall be deemed to have been approved.
         (b)   One of the following actions shall be taken by the Planning
Commission:
            1.   Final approval. The Planning Commission may give final
approval before all required improvements are installed, authorizing its
chairman to sign the plat at such time as a construction agreement and a cash
bond, acceptable to the Village Solicitor and in the amount stated by the
Village Engineer, are provided for the purpose of assuring installation of such
improvements. The amount of such cash bond shall be sufficient to cover the
cost of all improvements, based upon an estimate by the Village Engineer. Upon
receipt of the Village Engineer's certification and determination that all the
requirements of these regulations have been met, the Planning Commission may
give final approval and shall indicate such approval and date of the racing of
the plat.
            2.   Disapproval. Should the Planning Commission determine to
disapprove the plat, written notice of such action, including reference to the
regulations or regulation violated by the plat, shall be mailed to the
subdivider. The action shall also be entered on the official records of the
Planning Commission.
            3.   Approval without Board action. In the event the Planning
Commission shall fail to approve or disapprove the plat within 30 days from the
date of its official filing, or within a mutually agreed upon time extension,
the plat shall be deemed to have been approved.
      (4)   Effect of approval. Final approval of a plat by the Planning
Commission shall not be an acceptance by the public of the offer of dedication
of any street, highway, or other public ways or open space upon the plat unless
such acceptance is also endorsed by the Village Council upon the tracing of the
final plat.
      (5)   Recording of plat. After final approval of a plat by the Planning
Commission, the subdivider shall then return the tracing to the Village
Engineer, who after rechecking, shall then present the plat to the County
Auditor for transfer and to the County Recorder for recording. All fees
required in connection with the above process as well as costs of reproductions
of said plat shall be paid by the subdivider. Upon recording of the plat, the
tracing of said plat shall be permanently retained by the Planning Commission
and filed with the Village Engineer.
(Ord. 57-1981, passed 10-21-81; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
PLAN AND PLAT SPECIFICATIONS
§ 151.040 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to inform the subdivider of the specific
information he must provide to permit adequate review, approval, and recording
of plats.
(Ord. 57-1981, passed 10-21-81; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 151.041 PRELIMINARY DISCUSSION MAP.
   A map shall be submitted by the subdivider as a basis for informal
discussion. The map shall show the following information:
   (A)   Location: tract boundaries, township, and north point.
   (B)   Existing highways and proposed streets on and adjacent to the tract.
(Several alternates if considered.)
   (C)   Statement of how sewage disposal and water supply will be provided.
   (D)   Utility transmission lines and easements.
   (E)   Existing zoning districts.
   (F)   Topography. (U.S.G.S. or better)
(Ord. 57-1981, passed 10-21-81; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 151.042 PRELIMINARY PLAN.
   (A)   Application for preliminary plan. (See
Appendix B)
   (B)   Preliminary plan drawing. (See
Appendix D) The plan shall be prepared in accordance with §§
151.055 through
151.061 by a registered surveyor. The plan shall be accurately and clearly
drawn. The drawing shall include the proposed plan or alternate plans of the
subdivision, and shall show the following:
      (1)   Identification.
         (a)   Proposed name of subdivision (must not duplicate others in the
county) township, tract, or original lot or section number.
         (b)   Names, addresses, and telephone numbers of owners, subdivider,
and registered surveyor.
         (c)   Scale (1" = 100" min.), north arrow, and date.
      (2)   Existing data.
         (a)   Easements: location, width and purpose.
         (b)   Streets on and adjacent to the subdivision: names, location,
right-of-way, and roadway width. Planned public improvements: highways or other
major improvements planned by public authorities for future construction or
near the subdivision, including journalized routes for highways.
         (c)   Boundary line survey: showing bearings and distances as surveyed
by a registered surveyor.
         (d)   Utilities on and adjacent to the subdivision: location, size,
and invert elevations of sanitary and storm sewers; location and size of water
mains; location of gas lines, fire hydrants, and utility poles. If water mains,
sewers, and/or culverts are not on or adjacent to the tract, indicate the
direction and distance to and size of nearest ones, showing invert elevation of
sewers and culverts.
         (e)   Ground elevations on the subdivision: show contours with an
interval of not more than five feet if ground slope is in excess of 4% and two
feet if ground slope is less than 4%.
         (f)   Subsurface conditions on the subdivision: any conditions that
are not typical such as abandoned mines.
         (g)   Other conditions on the subdivision:
            1.   Water courses.
            2.   Flood plains.
            3.   Marshes/wetlands.
            4.   Rock outcroppings.
            5.   Wooded areas.
            6.   Isolated preservable trees one foot or more in diameter.
            7.   Riparian setbacks.
         (h)   Other conditions on adjacent land within 200 feet:
            1.   Approximate direction and gradient of ground slope including
any embankments or retaining walls.
            2.   Location and type of buildings, fences, tree lines, etc.
            3.   Railroad lines.
            4.   Power lines and towers.
            5.   Other nearby nonresidential uses of land.
            6.   Owners of adjacent uplatted land (for adjacent platted land
refer to subdivision plat by name, plat book, and pages).
         (i)   Zoning requirements:
            1.   District.
            2.   Lot size and yard requirements.
            3.   Proof of any variances or special exceptions which may have
been granted.
         (j)   Planned public improvements: highways or other major
improvements planned by public authorities for future construction on or near
the subdivision.
      (3)   Proposals.
         (a)   Streets: show proposed streets (indicate each street by a letter
except where the street is a continuation of an existing street), right-of-way
widths, approximate grades, and proposed improvements.
         (b)   Other right-of-way or easements: location, width, and purpose.
         (c)   Lots: numbers, dimensions and area or irregular lots in square
feet.
         (d)   Minimum building setback lines.
         (e)   Land parcels within the subdivision not to be divided into lots.
         (f)   Public sites: reserved or dedicated for parks, playgrounds, or
other public uses.
         (g)   Site for other uses: multi-family dwellings, shopping
facilities, churches, industry, or other nonpublic uses exclusive of single-
family dwellings.
         (h)   Total site data: including acreage, number of residential lots,
typical lot size and acres in parks and other public uses.
         (i)   Storm water management plan/facilities.
         (j)   When extensive changes of topography are contemplated, a plan
showing the proposed topography.
         (k)   In cases where lots or parcels have previously been transferred,
without plat, out of the tract sought to be subdivided, such lots or parcels
previously transferred should also be numbered in sequence with all new lots
created in the proposed subdivision.
      (4)   Other information. The Village Engineer or Village Planning
Commission may require such additional information as deemed necessary.
      (5)   Traffic impact study.
   (C)   Vicinity map. The map shall show the relationship of the proposed
subdivision to existing community facilities which serve or influence it. The
vicinity map may be on the same sheet as the preliminary plan drawing. The
vicinity map at a scale of 1" = 400' shall show:
      (1)   Subdivision name; township, tract, and original lot or section
number; north arrow and the Ohio State Plane coordinate grid.
      (2)   Existing and proposed main traffic arteries.
      (3)   Shopping facilities.
      (4)   Schools.
      (5)   Parks and playgrounds.
      (6)   Any other significant community features.
(Ord. 57-1981, passed 10-21-81; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 151.043 IMPROVEMENT PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Drawings showing cross sections, profiles, elevations, construction
details, specifications, and cost estimates, and all calculations and
computations for all required improvements shall be prepared by a registered
professional engineer. The improvement plans shall be prepared as directed by
the Village Engineer and subject to his approval.
   (B)   If it becomes necessary to modify the improvements approved, due to
unforeseen circumstances, the subdivides shall inform the Village Engineer in
writing of the conditions requiring the modifications. Written authorization
from the Village Engineer to make the required modification must be received
before proceeding with the construction of the improvements.
   (C)   At the completion of the construction and before acceptance, the
subdivider shall furnish the Village Engineer a set of linen or mylar tracings
for permanent record, showing the locations, sizes, and elevations of all
improvements as constructed. "As built" drawings showing all lateral locations,
depth, and all utility service connections shall be provided.
(Ord. 57-1981, passed 10-21-81; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 151.044 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   The subdivider shall furnish the following:
      (1)   Application for plat approval. (See
Appendix E)
      (2)   Plat drawing. (See
Appendix F)
   (B)   The plat shall be approved by the Village Engineer, drawn in ink on
tracing cloth or mylar (sheet size 22 inches by 34 inches (outside dimensions))
and shall be at a scale of not more than 100 feet to one inch. Where necessary,
the plat may be on several sheets accompanied by an index showing the entire
subdivision.
   (C)   The plat shall show the following:
      (1)   Identification.
         (a)   Name of subdivision (must not duplicate others in the county).
         (b)   Vicinity map at 1" = 1,000' scale with north arrow.
      (2)   Control points. All dimensions, angles, and bearings are to be
referred to control points, nearest established street line, section lines or
other established point.
      (3)   Lines and boundaries. Center lines and right-of-way lines of
streets, easements, and other rights-of-way, natural and artificial water
courses, streams, shorelines, corporation lines, and property lines of all lots
and parcels with distances, radii, arcs, chords, and tangents of all curves
(nearest 100th of a foot), bearings, or deflections angles (nearest second).
      (4)   Street name (must not duplicate another in the Mogadore postal
delivery area), right-of-way width of each street within proposed subdivision
and those adjoining.
      (5)   Buildings setback lines accurately shown with dimensions.
      (6)   Lot and block identification. Lots shall be numbered in consecutive
order and when the subdivision is submitted in sections or phases, lots shall
be numbered consecutively as each section or phase is submitted. In cases where
lots or parcels have previously been transferred, such lots or parcels
previously transferred should also be numbered in sequence with all new lots
created in the proposed subdivision.
      (7)   Total site data. Including acreage, number of residential lots,
typical lot size, and acres in parks and other public uses.
      (8)   Land for public use. Show boundaries and identify the use of all
parcels which are to be dedicated or reserved for public use or easements.
      (9)   Monuments. Locations and description of those found, set, or to be
set.
      (10)   Names of recorded owners of adjoining unplatted land and reference
to subdivision plats of adjoining platted land by name, volume, and page of
recorder's maps.
      (11)   Certification and seal by a registered surveyor or to the effect
that the plat represents a survey made by him which balances and closes, and
that the monuments shown thereon exist or shall be set as shown, and that all
dimensional and geodetic details are correct.
      (12)   Notarized certification by the owner or owners of the subdivision
and the offer of the dedication of streets and other public areas and that
there are no unpaid taxes or special assessments against the land contained in
the plat.
      (13)   Notation for:
         (a)   Certification of Village Engineer that required improvements
have been satisfactorily installed or adequate financial guarantees have been
provided.
         (b)   Approval of plat by Chairman and Secretary of the Planning
Commission.
         (c)   Acceptance of offers of dedication by Village Council.
         (d)   Proper notations for transfer and recording by the County
Auditor and the County Recorder.
      (14)   Protective covenants.
      (15)   Marital status of landowner must be shown, and if married, spouse
must also sign plat and release dower or courtesy interest in public places.
      (16)   Release by the mortgage holder, if any, of all interest in all
property dedicated to a public use. This may be a separate document.
(Ord. 57-1981, passed 10-21-81; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 151.055 PHYSICAL CONSIDERATIONS.
   (A)   Natural land use. Subdivisions should be planned to take advantage of
the topography of the land to economize the construction of drainage
facilities, to reduce the amount of grading, and to minimize destruction of
trees and topsoil.
   (B)   Flood hazard. If any portion of the land within the subdivision is
subject to flooding or other hazards, due consideration shall be given to such
problems in the design of the subdivision. Land subject to flooding and land
otherwise uninhabitable shall not be platted for residential occupancy or for
such other uses that may increase danger to health, life, or property or
aggravate the flood hazard.
(Ord. 57-1981, passed 10-21-81; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 151.056 STREETS.
   (A)   Arrangement. The arrangement, character, extent, width, and location
of all streets shall conform to the locally adopted Land Use and Thoroughfare
Plan. The design of proposed streets shall provide for both the continuation of
existing streets and access to adjacent unplatted lands so that the entire area
can be served with a coordinated street system.
   (B)   Street Classifications.
      (1)   Major arterial thoroughfares shall be planned for continuation of
movement of fast traffic between points of heavy traffic generation and from
one section of the community to another. They shall contain as few
intersections with minor streets as possible. Such thoroughfares should
traverse the community and should be spaced approximately one mile apart.
      (2)   Collector streets shall provide a traffic route from local streets
to major arterial thoroughfares. These streets should be spaced at least ¼ mile
apart.
      (3)   Local streets shall provide direct and full access to each lot and
shall be laid out so that their use by through traffic will be discouraged.
      (4)   Parallel streets may be required along an existing or proposed
major arterial thoroughfare to provide access to lots along such major arterial
thoroughfares.
      (5)   Service drives shall be designed to provide only secondary access.
   (C)   Street right-of-way widths and grades.
 
Classification              Minimum right-of- way width in Grades by Percent
                            feet                           Max. Min.
Major Arterial Thoroughfare 100                            5    .6
Collector Streets           80                             7    .5
Local Streets                                                  
Rural Residential           50                             8    .5
Urban Single-Family         50                             8    .5
Urban Multi-Family          50                             8    .5
Light Industrial            50                             5    .5
Parallel Streets            50                             8    .5
Service Drives              20                             8    .5
 
   (D)   Half streets. Half streets shall be prohibited except where there is
an existing half street adjacent to the subdivision in which case the remaining
half of the street shall be platted.
   (E)   Cul-de-sacs and dead-end streets. Streets designed to be permanently
dead-ended shall not be longer than 600 feet and shall be provided at the
closed end with a turnaround having an outside pavement diameter of at least 74
feet and a street property line diameter of at least 100 feet. If such a street
is of a temporary nature and a future extension into adjacent land is
anticipated then said turning circle beyond the normal street width shall be in
the nature of an easement over the premises included in said turning circle,
but beyond the boundaries of the street proper. Such easements shall be
automatically vacated to abutting property owners, when said dead-end street is
legally extended into adjacent land. If such dead-end street extends only one
lot depth past a street intersection, no turn around will be required.
Subdivider shall be required to reserve a strip of land five feet in width at
the end of all dead-end streets. No person or persons shall have access across
the property until an adjacent subdivision is developed and streets in such
development are dedicated for public use. The cost of paving such five-foot
strip shall be borne by the subdivider connecting into such street.
   (F)   Corner radii. Property lines at street intersections shall be rounded
with a radius of not less than 50 feet for major arterial thoroughfares, 30
feet for collector and industrial streets, and 25 feet for local streets.
Chords or cutoffs may be permitted in places of rounded corners.
   (G)   Horizontal and vertical curves. Angles in the alignment of street
lines shall be connected by a curve with a radium on the center line of not
less than 200 feet for local streets, 300 feet for collector and industrial
streets, and 500 feet for major arterial thoroughfares. Between reverse curves
there shall be a tangent at least 100 feet long on major arterial
thoroughfares. Every change in street grades shall be made with a vertical
curve to provide distance suited to the location which in no case shall be less
than 300 feet from a height of four and one-half feet.
   (H)   Intersections. Streets shall be laid out to intersect as nearly as
possible at right angles and no street shall intersect any other street at an
angle of less than 60 degrees. In no event shall an intersection containing
streets in excess of four be approved.
   (I)   Street jogs. Street jogs with centerline offsets of not less than 200
feet shall be prohibited. If deemed necessary by the Planning Commission, the
minimum distance between centerline offsets may be increased.
(Ord. 57-1981, passed 10-21-81; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 151.057 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Utility easements. Electric and telephone lines should be located
along rear or side lot lines wherever possible unless buried in conduit.
Easements along rear side, and front lot lines shall be provided for utilities
and shall be at least ten feet wide on the rear line and five feet wide on the
side lines and ten feet wide on the front (outside of right-of-way).
   (B)   Drainage easements. Where a subdivision is traversed by a drainage
way, a storm water or drainage easement conforming substantially with the lines
of such drainage way shall be provided. The easement shall be 20 feet wide or
shall generally follow, but not be centered upon rear and side lot lines.
(Ord. 57-1981, passed 10-21-81; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 151.058 BLOCKS.
   (A)   Residential block lengths. The long dimension of a residential block
shall not exceed 1,500 feet or be less than 800 feet.
   (B)   Pedestrian walkways. Pedestrian walkways, with not less than ten feet
wide right-of-way, or of such greater width as deemed necessary by the Planning
Commission, shall be required across blocks where the Planning Commission deems
that pedestrian access to schools, playgrounds, shopping center,
transportation, and other community facilities is necessary.
   (C)   Commercial or industrial blocks. Blocks intended to be used for
commercial or industrial purposes shall be designed specifically for such uses
with adequate space set aside for off-street parking and loading facilities.
(Ord. 57-1981, passed 10-21-81; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 151.059 LOTS.
   (A)   Zoning conformance. The lot size, width, depth, and the minimum
building setback lines shall conform to the existing village zoning
regulations.
   (B)   Corner lots. Corner lots shall have extra width to permit appropriate
building setback from and orientation to both streets.
   (C)   Access to public streets. The subdividing of land shall provide each
lot with access to an existing public street.
   (D)   Double-frontage lot. Lots shall not be laid out so that they have
frontage on more than one street except; (1) where the lots are adjacent to the
intersection of two streets; (2) where it is necessary to separate residential
lots from major arterial thoroughfares. Where double-frontage lots are created
adjacent to major arterial thoroughfares, a reserve strip along the major
arterial thoroughfares shall be deeded to the village. The plat shall state
that there shall be no right of access across such reserve stip. The Planning
Commission may require that a six-foot high solid board fence or masonry wall
be constructed or that a ten-foot wide planting screen be provided.
   (E)   Lot lines. Lot lines shall be substantially at right angles or radial
to street lines. Lot lines should follow municipal, township, and county
boundary lines rather than cross them insofar as possible.
(Ord. 57-1981, passed 10-21-81; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 151.060 PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES.
   (A)   Public facilities. The design of the subdivision shall provide for
parks, playgrounds, schools, and other sites for public use as provided in §
151.079. Such public facilities shall conform to the adopted Land Use and
Thoroughfare Plan.
   (B)   Natural features. Due consideration shall be given to preserving
outstanding natural features such as scenic spots, water bodies, or
exceptionally fine groves of trees. Dedication to and acceptance by a public
agency is usually the best means of assuring their preservation.
(Ord. 57-1981, passed 10-21-81; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 151.061 CONFORMITY WITH LAND USE AND THOROUGHFARE PLAN WHEN ADOPTED.
   All proposed subdivisions shall conform to the adopted Land Use and
Thoroughfare Plan where not in conflict with an official zoning ordinance.
Whenever a tract to be subdivided embraces any part of a major thoroughfare, or
collector street shown on the adopted Land Use and Thoroughfare Plan, such part
of the proposed public way shall be platted by the subdivider in the location
and of the width indicate on the adopted Land Use and Thoroughfare Plan.
(Ord. 57-1981, passed 10-21-81; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
IMPROVEMENT REQUIREMENTS AND SPECIFICATIONS
§ 151.075 REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   The improvements which are hereby required shall be designed, furnished, and
installed by the subdivider in accordance with the provisions of this chapter
and other regulations of the state and village. They shall be installed before
the final plat is approved or in lieu thereof, financial guarantees for such
installation shall be approved prior to the approval of the final plat. The
subdivider shall provide and install within the proposed subdivision
improvements not less than set forth in Table 1.
TABLE 1
SCHEDULE OF REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
                                                Multifamily Residential
 Less Than 90 Feet 90 to 120 Feet Over 120 Feet Industrial and Business
                                                Subdivisions
TABLE 1
SCHEDULE OF REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
                                                                  Multifamily
                           Less Than 90 90 to 120                 Residential
                           Feet         Feet        Over 120 Feet Industrial
                                                                  and Business
                                                                  Subdivisions
Drainage Grading           streets,     streets,                  streets,
(See §                    blocks, and  blocks, and streets       blocks, and
151.076)                   lots         lots                      lots
Storm Sewers               sewer        sewer       open          sewer
Street Improvements (for                                          required (see
both new and existing      required     required    required      Table 2)
streets)
Pavement (see §                                                
151.077(A))
Curbs and Gutters (see §  required     required    required      required
151.077(B))
Sidewalks (see §          both sides   both sides  both sides    both sides
151.077(C))
Street Signs (see §       required     required    required      required
151.077(D))
Street Lights (see §      required     required    required      required
151.077(E))
Street Trees (see §       required     required    required      required
151.077(F))
Sewer and Water (see §    central      central     central       central
151.078)                   system       systems     systems       systems
Public Sites (see §       required     required    required      required
151.079)
Monuments (see §          required     required    required      required
151.080)
 
(Ord. 57-1981, passed 10-21-81)
§ 151.076 DRAINAGE.
   A drainage system shall be designed and constructed by the subdivider to
provide for the proper drainage of the surface water of the subdivision and the
drainage area of which it is a part. To this end the subdivision shall be
graded as required by §
151.075 (Schedule of Required Improvements) and the following requirements and
methods shall be followed:
   (A)   Drainage plan. Prior to the start of any construction (houses or
streets), the subdivider shall furnish a plot plan showing the slab or floor
elevation of each house proposed to be constructed. He shall also show by the
use of arrows how he proposes to surface drain each lot. The subdivider shall
submit topographic maps showing the area to be drained with calculations
prepared by a registered professional engineer in determining the proposed
storm water collection system.
   (B)   Drainage requirements (grading). No final grading or sidewalk or
pavement construction or installation of utilities shall be permitted in any
proposed street until the final plat has been approved, or conditionally
approved. The subdivider shall grade each subdivision as specified in §
151.075 (Schedule of Required Improvements) in order to establish street,
block, and lot grades in proper relation to each other and to topography, as
follows:
      (1)   Street grading plan. A grading plan shall be prepared for the
streets along with street improvement details. The grading of the roadway shall
extend the full width of the right-of-way. Planting strips shall be graded at a
gradient of not less than 2% or more than 3% upward from the curb to the
sidewalk or property line.
      (2)   Block and lot grading.
         (a)   Block grading shall be as follows:
            1.   A ridge along rear lot lines, draining into the streets.
            2.   Parts of all lots draining to a sidewalk or ditch along rear
lot lines.
         (b)   Lot grading shall be as follows: Lots shall be graded so that
water drains away from each building at a minimum grade of 2%. Surface drainage
swales shall have a minimum grade of 2% and shall be designed so that surface
water will drain into a driveway, street gutter, storm sewer, drain inlet or
natural drainage way. The minimum grades of driveways shall be 4/10% and a
maximum of 153.
      (3)   Topsoil. If grading results in the stripping of topsoil, the
topsoil shall not be removed from the site or used as fill, but saved and
uniformly spread over the lots as grading is finished.
      (4)   Trees. As many trees as can be reasonably utilized in the final
development plan shall be retained and the grading adjusted to the existing
grade at the trees.
   (C)   Drainage systems requirements. The design criteria for the drainage
systems shall be based on the State of Ohio Department of Highways, Manual of
Locations and Design. Run off or design discharge for sewer design where the
contributing area generally consists of pavement and a barrow strip back of the
pavement, shall be obtained from the rational formula: Q=Cia (See Manual of
Location and Design). Peak rates of runoff from water sheds under 1,000 acres
shall be obtained from the following formula:
Q=RF x CF x FF x Q (See Manual of Location and Design). The following minimum
design frequencies are to be used:
      Roadway ditches            2 years
      Storm sewers            10 years
      Culvert under roadways         25 years
      Watercourses            10 years
      (1)   Road drainage system. The road storm drainage system shall serve as
the prime drainage system. It shall be designed to carry roadway, adjacent
land, and house storm water drainage.
      (2)   The storm sewer system shall also comply with the latest erosion
and sediment control and storm water management requirements of the village.
         (a)   Road storm sewers (enclosed).
            1.   The design discharge used to determine pavement inlet spacing
shall be based on the rational method mentioned in division (C) above. The
gutter flow between inlets shall be calculated by the equation: Q=.26 Z/N S1/
2 F8/3. (See Manual of Location and Design)
            2.   The inlet spacing shall be based on a ten-year frequency, 15
minutes duration design storm. The spread of water on the pavement shall be
limited to two feet into the traveled lane. In addition, standard manholes, or
combination manhole inlets for cleaning purposes shall be placed no further
than 300 feet apart.
         (b)   Off-road drainage systems. The design of the off-road drainage
system shall include the watershed affecting the allotment and shall be
extended to a watercourse or ditch adequate to receive the storm drainage.
            1.   All watercourses or ditches with a design capacity not
exceeding the capacity of a 36 inch concrete pipe shall be enclosed. Existing
creeks or ditches constructed by the subdivider which exceed the above limits
shall be constructed with a minimum 15 foot wide continuous earth roadway to
provide access for maintenance equipment to all sections of the ditch. The
ditch easement shall be wide enough to contain said ditch slopes and roadway
with ample clearance for the operation of maintenance equipment. Open ditches
will have a side slope ration of 2:1 and a minimum two-foot bottom width.
            2.   No open ditch shall be constructed within 100 feet of the rear
of a house as measured from the house to the edge of the ditch easement.
            3.   Any storm drainage courses carried alongside lot lines shall
be enclosed with approved pipe.
      (3)   Drainage easement. Easements for drainage purposes shall be a
minimum of 20 feet in width. Where the watercourse is large, easement widths
shall be increased as determined by the Village Engineer. Where watercourses
cross plotted lots diagonally the subdividers shall straighten such courses
where practicable and shall substantially follow sublot lines. Easements shall
be shown on the record plat and deeds shall cover all existing or reconstructed
watercourses.
      (4)   Protection of drainage systems. The subdivider shall adequately
protect all ditches (roadways and watercourses) to the satisfaction of the
Village Engineer as follows:
         (a)   Any watercourse having a gradient in excess of 2½% shall be
enclosed with pipe with the necessary inlets and shall be piped to a storm
sewer, if nearby, or otherwise to a natural watercourse. Where a street is of
considerable length and of various gradients, part of which require storm
sewers, the lengths between the storm sewers even though less than 2½% gradient
shall also be enclosed in pipe, when required by the Village Engineer, material
and construction shall be in accordance with the specifications of the Village
Engineer. Watercourses or road gutters having a gradient exceeding 1½% shall be
sodded or paved with brick, concrete, half tile or broken concrete slabs. All
areas within the right-of-way not paved or sodded shall be fertilized and
seeded.
         (b)   All adjoining land where the vegetation has been injured or
destroyed where the land is in need of protection to prevent erosion, deposits
in the drainage facilities and/or unsightly conditions shall be restored and
protected by the Village Engineer.
         (c)   In all cases, any drainage facility within the subdivision shall
be in a stable condition, free from either erosion or sedimentation and/or
other debris.
      (5)   Pipe policy. The pipe policy of the current State of Ohio
Department of Transportation. "Construction and Material Specifications" shall
be used in designing storm sewer systems subject to the approval of the Village
Engineer.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 151.077 STREET IMPROVEMENTS.
   The subdivider shall design and construct pavements, curbs and gutters of
sizes and types not less than set forth in Table 2, for all streets. The
construction and materials shall be as specified by the State of Ohio
Department of Highways Construction and Material Specifications or as specified
by the Village Engineer.
   (A)   Pavements. Higher standards and/or greater widths than indicated
herein may be required by the Village Engineer or Planning Commission to
adequately provide for unusual soil conditions or extraordinary traffic volumes
or loads. After the underground utilities and house connections are installed
and rough grading completed, the roadway subgrades shall be shaped, rolled, and
compacted. The subdivider may construct a temporary roadway of slag or stone
for use during the building construction period. Such pavements shall be
maintained in a safe and passable condition by the subdivider without expense
to the village.
   (B)   Curbs and gutters. Concrete curbs and gutters shall be provided where
indicated on the required improvement schedule.
   (C)   Sidewalks. Sidewalks shall be provided as specified in the required
improvement schedule. Sidewalks shall be constructed of concrete six inches
thick. The construction and materials shall be as specified in the State of
Ohio Department of Highways Construction and Material Specifications or as
specified by the Village Engineer.
   (D)   Street name signs. The subdivider shall install a street sign showing
the names of all streets at all street intersections. The signs shall conform
to the specifications of the Village Engineer and be mounted at a height of
approximately seven feet above the top of the curb or the crown of the
pavement. The sign shall be located as directed by the Village Engineer.
   (E)   Street name lights and underground utility lines. In all new
allotments or reallotment, all utility lines including those for street
lightings should be installed underground and all street light poles should be
of the approved metal type. All owners or petitioners for subdivision of land
shall grant easements for such lines and areas as are needed by the utilities
for installation, maintenance and replacement of their lines and needed
equipment including street lighting. Street lights shall be installed by the
utility company when ordered by the Village Engineer; however, in all new
allotments, street lights shall be installed prior to completion of the
development and release of the developer's bond. The subdivider shall arrange
for the installation of street lights in the subdivision.
 
TABLE 2 PAVEMENT STANDARDS
TYPE STREET SUBBASE1 BASE       SURFACE1 CURB AND/OR  WIDTH /BASE1 WIDTH TOTAL
                                         GUTTER
            6" 304   3" 301 or  6" 451   Integral     27'          26'
Residential 6" 304   302        7" 452   Integral     27'          26'
            6" 304              1.5" 401 Curb/Gutter" 27'          26'
            6" 304              8" 451   Integral     31'          30'
Industrial  6" 304   5"301or302 9" 452   Integral     31'          30'
            8' 304              1.5' 401 Curb/Gutter  31'          30'
Collector/  6" 304   4" 301 or  7" 451   Integral     33'          32'
Arterial    6" 304   302        8" 452   Integral     33'          32'
            7" 304              1.5" 403 Curb/Gutter  33'          32'
1.   All methods of construction, materials and machinery used shall meet the
requirements of the current State of Ohio Construction and Materials
Specifications and the specifications of the Village of Mogadore, unless
otherwise ordered by the Village Engineer.
2.   Subgrades shall be inspected and approved by the Village Engineer before
any materials are placed. Each material course shall be accepted by the
Village Engineer before the succeeding course is constructed. (The requirement
for subbase course under pavements may be waived by the Village Engineer).
3.   The type and quantities of materials to be used will be determined by the
Village Engineer. The surface preparation shall be a prime coat (408) or a
tack coat (407) as required by the Village Engineer.
4.   Except where 452 or 451 pavement is used, all curbing shall be 24" wide
Combination Curb and Gutter sections, constructed of Portland Cement Concrete.
Minimum gutter thickness shall be 6". The specified subbase material shall
extend the full width under the curb and gutter section, to the sub-grade
line. Under drains shall be installed and connected to curb inlets.
   Curb shall be Standard Curb 6" higher than the gutter.
   Curb openings for ditches, drains, etc., are not permitted.
5.   Total width is back to back of curbings.
 
   (F)   Street trees. The trees shall be provided only on streets with curbs
and gutters as required in the improvement schedule and as follows:
      (1)   Species.
         (a)   The trees shall be species which are resistant to damage and
disease and which do not cause interference with underground utilities or
street lighting.
         (b)   The subdivider shall furnish plans prepared by a landscape
architect or a qualified person having knowledge and experience in the
landscape industry; plans shall show location, spacing, size, variety and other
pertinent data concerning street trees. Also the subdivider shall install them
in an approved plan. Such plans and installations shall be done with the
approval and cooperation of the Planning Commission.
         (c)   It is advised that a tree with an ultimate height of less than
20 feet be used.
         (d)   No tree should be planted which is less than one inches-two
inches in diameter measured one foot above ground level. Lowest branches should
not be less than four feet nor higher than six feet above the ground. Trees
shall be balled and burlapped in condition according to American Nurseryman
Standards. Trees normally should not be planted closer than 40 feet to each
other. No tree should be planted closer than 25 feet to the squared sidewalk
corner of a street intersection, preferably this distance will be closer to 35
feet. (See
Appendix I).
         (e)   Best results will be obtained if planting is done during the
months of April, May, October or November. Where condition or type of soil is
unfavorable to plant growth, a volume of not less than one cubic yard of good
top soil should be placed around the roots.
         (f)   Trees should be mulched and artificially watered to stimulate
good root, stem and leaf growth.
      (2)   Location. (See
Appendix I)
      (3)   Tree and tree planting specifications.
         (a)   Trees shall be 1¾" - 2" in trunk diameter, measured six inches
above the ground level, B&B in condition. Height of tree shall be 10'-12' with
lowest branches between 4' and 6' straight trunked and grown as a street tree
in the nursery row. Size, balling, branching and quality of tree shall be
according to U.S.A. standard for NURSERY STOCK (USA SZ 60.1-1969).
         (b)   Tree pits should be dug with sides approximately vertical to a
depth of 22 inches and a diameter of 36 inches. When rock, hardpan, stumps and
roots, and any undesirable material is encountered, the pit shall be dug a
minimum nine inches greater than the approximate required depth. All
undesirable material shall be removed and replaced with topsoil.
         (c)   Plant the tree at the same level or slightly higher than it had
been at the nursery. Back fill used around tree in planting process shall be of
a good quality top soil free of stones, roots, weeds and other undesirable
material. Peat moss may be mixed with top soil back fill. Under no
circumstances shall dry peat moss be used in the mixing process. A saucer shall
be left around tree and tree watered (See Tree pit staking detail). Trunk shall
be wrapped to prevent sun-scald.
         (d)   Mulching shall be of well rotted manure or wood chips within the
saucer area. When wood chips are used, a commercial fertilizer shall be used
prior to placement of chips.
   (G)   Planting screens or fences. The Planning Commission may require and
permit planting screens or fences wherever frontage lots abut a major arterial
street or between major arterial thoroughfare and a marginal access street,
provided that such planting screens or fences shall not constitute a safety
hazard. A plan of proposed planting screens or fences shall be submitted for
approval with the plat.
(Ord. 57-1981, passed 10-21-81; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 151.078 SEWER AND WATER FACILITIES.
   (A)   Adequate central sanitary sewer, including man holes, house laterals,
and other incidentals, and water supply systems, shall be provided by the
subdivider, either by the installation of new systems or by connection to
existing systems which are deemed adequate by the Village Engineer to handle
the additional demands and volume which will result from the proposed
subdivision. The subdivider, prior to the submission of said plat for approval
by the Planning Commission, must receive the prior written approval for the
extension or installation of said central water system and central sanitary
sewer system from the Village Engineer, the Summit County Sanitary Engineer and
the City of Akron Water Department.
   (B)   Sewer joints shall be designed to minimize infiltration and to prevent
the entrance of roots. The leakage outward or the infiltration should not
exceed the latest Summit County and EPA limits.
(Ord. 57-1981, passed 10-21-81; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 151.079 PUBLIC SITES.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall require the dedication of land for
parks, playgrounds, open space and/or school sites as specified in Table 3.
   (B)   Where the land use and thoroughfare plan shows the planned location of
such public sites, the Planning Commission shall require that such dedication
be in conformance with said plan. Where the land area shown on said plan for
such public sites exceeds the amount required by Table 3, such additional land
shall be reserved for a period of one year to permit said land to be acquired
by the appropriate public body:
TABLE 3 PUBLIC SITES REQUIRED
Average Lot Area In Square Feet Single- Land Area Required for Public Use
Family Residential
43,560 or more                          0.06 acre per gross acre in subdivision
20,001 to 43,560                        0.07 acre per gross acre in subdivision
12,001 to 20,000                        0.08 acre per gross acre in subdivision
8,001 to 12,000                         0.09 acre per gross acre in subdivision
Less than 8,000                         0.10 acre per gross acre in subdivision
Multi-family                            0.12 acre per gross acre in subdivision
Industrial                              0.05 acre per gross acre in subdivision
Business                                0.05 acre per gross acre in subdivision
 
   (C)   If no public site is indicated on the Land Use and Thoroughfare Plan,
the subdivider, in lieu of dedicating land in the amount indicated in Table 3,
shall pay the amount of the appraised value of the total land and area required
for public use as shown in Table 3. Any payment in lieu of dedication of public
land shall be used to purchase or improve school or park sites which will serve
the subdivision for which the payment was made.
   (D)   It is recommended that public sites for schools be at least ten acres
in area; sites for neighborhood parks be at least seven acres; and school park
sites be at least 15 acres in area. It is also recommended that public sites in
adjoining subdivisions should be located together so that larger, more usable
sites are created.
   (E)   Any land dedicated for a public park or open space (other than buffer
areas which separate industrial or business areas from residential areas) shall
be graded, fertilized, and seeded as listed as the following:
      (1)   Fertilizing. Commercial fertilizer 12-12-12 applied at the rate of
20 pounds per 1,000 square feet.
      (2)   Seeding.
         1% Ladino Clover
         50% Creeping Red Fescue
         55% Kentucky Blue Grass
         24% Domestic Rye Grass
(Ord. 57-1981, passed 10-21-81; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 151.080 MONUMENTS.
   (A)   Monuments shall be one inch lead-filled pipe 30 inches long or one
inch pipe or steel rods set in and running through a concrete block at least
six inches in diameter and at least 30 inches long and the bottoms of such
block shall be set at least 30 inches deep, below finished grade in the plat,
and the points at which they may be found shall be designated on the plat. All
monuments set in pavements shall be set in standard type monument boxes. Where
new streets intersect existing highways, monuments shall be placed on the
center line of the new road at the right-of-way of the existing road.
   (B)   A minimum of four monuments shall be set in each plat of ten lots or
less, and not less than six shall be set in each plat containing over ten lots.
Iron pins shall be set at all lot corners and in all changes in lot line
direction. Monuments to be set on center line and right-of-way line and all
P.C., P.T. and street intersections with additional monuments to be placed at
the direction of the City Engineer.
(Ord. 57-1981, passed 10-21-81; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 151.081 OVERSIZE AND/OR OFF-SITE IMPROVEMENTS.
   Oversize and/or off-site extensions of utilities, pavements, and other
improvements shall be designed and constructed to facilitate the orderly
development of nearby land which is an integral part of the neighborhood
service or drainage area. Where the Village Engineer determines that
improvements in excess of the size needed to serve the proposed subdivision are
necessary, the subdivider shall install all improvements required to serve his
subdivision plus the addition oversize and/or off-site improvements required.
Such improvements shall be available for connections by individual property
owners and/or subdividers of adjoining land.
(Ord. 57-1981, passed 10-21-81; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 151.082 CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Preconstruction meeting and work schedule. A preconstruction meeting
will be held with the Village Engineer prior to the commencement of any
project. At this time the project will be discussed in regard to procedure,
plans materials, inspections, etc.
   (B)   Construction inspections.
      (1)   Responsible official. The Village Engineer shall be responsible for
the inspection of all improvements. Developer shall request inspection at least
24 hours prior to time of work.
      (2)   Authority and duties of inspectors. Inspectors for the village
shall be authorized to inspect any work done and all materials furnished. Such
inspection may extend to all or any part of the work and to the preparations
fabrication, or manufacture of the materials to be used. The inspector shall
not be authorized to revoke, alter, or waive any requirements of the
specifications or plans. He shall be authorized to call the attention of the
contractor to any failure of the work or materials to conform to the
specifications and contract. He shall have the authority to reject materials
which do not meet specification requirements or suspend the portion of the work
involved until any question at issue can be referred to and decided by the
Village Engineer.
      (3)   Final inspection. Upon completion of all the improvements, the
subdivider shall request in writing a final inspection by the Village Engineer.
The Village Engineer shall make a final inspection of improvements.
   (C)   Construction responsibilities.
      (1)   Cooperation of subdivider and/or contractor. The subdivider and/or
contractor shall have available on the project at all times two approved copies
of all required plans and specifications. He shall cooperate with the inspector
and with other contractors in every way possible. The subdivider and/or
contractor shall at all times have a competent superintendent acting as his
agent on the project. The superintendent shall be capable of reading and
thoroughly understanding the plans and specifications. He shall have full
authority to execute the plans and specifications and to promptly supply such
materials, tools, plant equipment, and labor as may be required. A
superintendent shall be furnished irrespective of the amount of work sublet.
      (2)   Work schedules. The subdivider and/or contractor shall submit work
schedules to the Village Engineer. Work which has not been properly scheduled
shall not be accepted by the Village Engineer.
      (3)   Grade stakes. Pavement and pipe grade stakes shall be set by the
developer's engineer at 25-foot intervals on horizontal and vertical curves and
for all grades less than 1%. Tangent pavement grades and pipe grades over 1%
may be set at maximum interval of 50 feet. The inspector may ask for additional
grade stakes if it is deemed necessary.
      (4)   Repair of damage. Any damage done to the improvements by
construction traffic, local traffic, or by any other means shall be repaired or
the damaged materials replaced before the next item of construction is begun.
      (5)   Final cleaning up. Upon completion of the work and before
acceptance, the subdivider and/or contractor shall clean all ground occupied or
affect by him in connection with the work. The entire area shall be left in a
neat and presentable condition satisfactory to the inspector.
      (6)   Maintenance of improvements of dedicated streets. The subdivider
shall be responsible for the maintenance of the improvements during the
construction period and shall be responsible for providing the services
necessary to guarantee access to all occupied lots, until final acceptance of
the improvements by the Village Engineer. The subdivider shall be notified by
the Village Engineer or Planning Commission of the need for said maintenance or
service. If the subdivider fails to perform such necessary maintenance or
service within a time specified by the Village Engineer, the Village Engineer
may perform said maintenance or service and bill the subdivider for said
service. Payment shall be guaranteed by the performance bond. In addition, the
subdvider shall maintain all improvements for such periods specified in §
151.083(D) Maintenance Guarantees.
(Ord. 57-1981, passed 10-21-81; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 151.083 AGREEMENTS AND GUARANTEES.
   No subdivision shall be approved until the improvements required have been
constructed or a cash bond, as determined by the Village Solicitor, has been
deposited with the Village Clerk-Treasurer guaranteeing the faithful
performance of the construction of such streets, sidewalks, storm sewers,
sanitary sewers and other required improvements in any new subdivision.
   (A)   Construction agreement.
      (1)   To assure construction and installation of improvements required by
this chapter the subdivider shall execute a construction agreement with the
Village Engineer in form and substance as determined by the Village Engineer
and approved by the Village Solicitor. This agreement shall provide that all
such improvements shall be constructed and installed at the subdivider's
expense in compliance with the standards and specifications for each of the
various types of improvements; such improvements shall be available to and for
the benefit of the lands within such subdivisions that such improvements will
be completed and installed within 24 months of the date of conditional approval
of the final plat. Any further provisions that the Village Solicitor may deem
necessary in the public interest may be added.
      (2)   The construction agreement shall further provide that, in the case
where approval of the final plat has been given before construction of
improvements and a performance guarantee has been provided and if the
improvements are not completed within the specified time, the village upon
proper notice may complete the improvements and recover full costs and expenses
thereof from the subdivider and may appropriate such portions of money or bonds
posted for the faithful performance of said works.
   (B)   Commencement of improvements. No construction of any improvements or
clearing, grubbing and grading shall be commenced prior to the approval of the
construction agreement by the Village Engineer.
   (C)   Performance guarantee.
      (1)   Type of guarantee. The subdivider in lieu of actual installation or
completion of the required improvements when requesting conditional approval of
a final plat, shall execute and file a construction agreement and cash bond in
accordance with §
151.023(E)(3)(b)l.
      (2)   Term of guarantee. Guarantees shall be for a period of not longer
than two years unless the Village Engineer shall extend the time period by
resolution.
      (3)   Amount of guarantee. The financial guarantee shall be in an amount
equal to the subdivider's estimate approved by the Village Engineer of the cost
of construction of all improvements plus 10%.
   (D)   Maintenance guarantees.
      (1)   A cash maintenance bond shall be posted with the Village Engineer
in the amount of 10% of the cost of improvements and shall be arranged for a
period of 24 months from date of acceptance of improvements by the Village
Engineer.
      (2)   The subdivider shall be responsible for routine maintenance of all
improvements and shall repair all failures due to faulty construction as soon
as they become apparent.
      (3)   He shall also make repairs due to erosion or abuse by utility
companies and shall repair all failures for all other reasons during the
maintenance guarantee period. The streets, street trees, monuments and other
improvements shall be in a condition acceptable to the Village Engineer Service
at the end of the maintenance period. If the subdivider fails to perform said
maintenance to the complete satisfaction of the Village Engineer, the Village
Engineer may use such cash maintenance guarantee for improvements of properties
within the subdivision.
   (E)   Liability insurance. The subdivider shall furnish such insurance as is
deemed necessary by the Mayor or his designee which shall indemnify and save
harmless the village from any and all liability arising by reason of the
conditions which may arise or grow out of the construction or installation of
such facilities. The insurance shall be of such duration as determined by the
Solicitor but shall in no case be allowed to expire earlier than the effective
period of any maintenance bond. A copy of the insurance policy shall remain at
all times with the Solicitor.
   (F)   Title insurance.
      (1)   A title insurance policy in an amount to be determined by the
solicitor will be issued insuring the title of the lands to be dedicated, and
that all taxes are paid on any streets or other lands dedicated to public use.
      (2)   The title insurance policy shall show the release by the mortgage
holder, if any, of all interest in all property dedicated to a public use.
      (3)   These conditions must be complied with before final effective
approval of the subdivision.
(Ord. 57-1981, passed 10-21-81; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 151.095 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Village Engineer shall administer this chapter under the general
supervision and direction of the Village Planning and Zoning Commission except
where specific authority is given to other official as set forth in this
chapter.
(Ord. 57-1981, passed 10-21-81; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 151.096 RECORDING OF PLAT.
   No plat of any subdivision shall be recorded in the office of the Recorder
or have any validity until it has been approved in the manner prescribed
herein. In the event any such unapproved plat is recorded, it shall be
considered invalid; and the Planning Commission shall institute proceedings to
have the plat stricken from the country records.
(Ord. 57-1981, passed 10-21-81; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 151.097 SALE OF LAND IN SUBDIVISION.
   No owner or agent of the owners of any land located within a subdivision
shall transfer or agree to transfer ownership in the future by reference to,
exhibition of, or by the use of a plan or plat of a subdivision before such
plan or plat has been approved and recorded in the manner prescribed herein.
Any sale or transfer contrary to the provision of this section shall invalidate
the plat plan. The description of such sublot or parcel by metes and bounds in
the instrument of transfer or other documents used in the process of selling or
transferring shall not exempt the transaction from the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 57-1981, passed 10-21-81; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 151.098 REVISION OF PLAT AFTER APPROVAL.
   No changes, erasure, modifications, or revision shall be made in any plat of
a subdivision after approval has been given by the Planning Commission and an
endorsement is made in writing on a plat, unless the plat is first resubmitted
and the changes approved by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 57-1981, passed 10-21-81; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 151.099 FEES.
   (A)   Filing fees. Filing fees in the amount fixed as follows shall be paid
when the application for a schedule is submitted.
      (1)   Minor subdivision fees, $100 plus $20 per lot.
      (2)   Major subdivision fees:
         (a)   Preliminary plan fees, $150 plus:
            $2 per lot for the first 50 lots plus;
            $1.50 per lot for lots 51-100 plus;
            $1 per lot for all lots over 100.
         (b)   Plat fees, $20 plus:
            $2 per lot for the first 50 lots plus;
            $1.50 per lot for lots 51-100 plus;
            $1 per lot for all lots over 100.
         (c)   Preliminary plan time extension fee, $20.
         (d)   Preliminary plan resubmittal fee. Where the approved preliminary
plan has not been changed but the approval period has expired, the fee shall be
one-half of the preliminary plan fee. (See division (A)(2)(a) above)
      (3)   Payment. The filing fee shall be paid in legal tender or by check
or money order made payable to the Village of Mogadore, Ohio, and deposited
with the Clerk/Treasurer.
      (4)   Refunds. In the event that a plat is withdrawn by the subdivider
before any physical inspection of the site has ben made, then the Planning
Commission may order that the subdivider be refunded an amount not to exceed
one-half the fee paid.
   (B)   Plan checking and field inspection fees. At the time such plans,
profiles and specifications are submitted for review, the subdivider shall
prepare an estimate of cost of all improvements which shall be verified by the
Village Engineer. The subdivider shall deposit an amount of money equal to 3%
of the estimated cost at the time he posts his cash bond.
(Ord. 57-1981, passed 10-21-81; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 151.100 VARIANCES.
   The Planning Commission may recommend variances to this chapter as specified
herein where unusual or exceptional factors or conditions require such
modification, provided that the Planning Commission shall:
   (A)   Find that unusual topographical or exceptional physical conditions
exist.
   (B)   Find that strict compliance with this chapter would create an
extraordinary hardship in the face of the exceptional conditions.
   (C)   Permit any modification to depart from this chapter only to the extent
necessary to remove the extraordinary hardship.
   (D)   Find that any modification granted will not be detrimental to the
public interest nor in conflict with the intent and purposes of this chapter.
   (E)   Require such other conditions to be met by the proposed plat as the
Planning Commission may find necessary to accomplish the purposes of this
chapter when modified.
   (F)   Any variance shall accompany the proposed plat with appropriate
justification.
(Ord. 57-1981, passed 10-21-81; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 151.101 APPEALS.
   Rights of appeal shall be as set forth in R.C. Chapter 711 or other
applicable sections of the Ohio Revised Code.
(Ord. 57-1981, passed 10-21-81; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 151.102 ACCEPTANCE ORDINANCE FOR STREETS, EASEMENTS AND DEDICATED OPEN
SPACES.
   (A)   A review shall be held by a committee of Council when all requirements
have been complied with. The committee shall submit their recommendations to
Council as to whether or not the village shall accept the streets, easements
and dedicated open spaces as contained in the subdivision.
   (B)   When all requirements as contained herein have been complied with to
the satisfaction of Village Council, an ordinance accepting the streets
easements and dedicated open spaces of the subdivision may be enacted.
   (C)   Upon the passage of the acceptance ordinance properly approved, the
Council President and Clerk/Treasurer will sign the plat.
   (D)   The subdivider must then have the plat recorded. The plat tracings
become a part of the Planning Commission records after being recorded and shall
bear a legend to that effect.
(Ord. 57-1981, passed 10-21-81; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 151.103 ENFORCEMENT AND RELEASE OF CASH BOND.
   The subdivider's cash bond shall not be released until fulfillment of the
following conditions:
   (A)   All required land improvements shall be installed within a period of
two years after the recording of the final plat. Failure of the subdivider to
complete all of the improvements within this two-year period shall result in
forfeiture of the cash bond unless an extension of time is requested by the
subdivider and granted by the Village Engineer. In the event of failure to
complete the improvements in the required period, as stated herein, the Village
Engineer may direct that no further building permits be issued for property in
such subdivision pending satisfaction of the Village Engineer in regard to the
status of the required land improvement.
   (B)   An affidavit to the effect that all materials, labor and other costs
have been paid so as to hold the village free from any obligation for payment
of any costs of the land improvements. That the subdivider accepts
responsibility for the maintenance and repair of all improvements for one year
after the date of the acceptance by ordinance of Village Council of all land
improvements.
   (C)   Final acceptance of all land improvements by ordinance of Village
Council, upon recommendation of the Village Engineer.
(Ord. 57-1981, passed 10-21-81; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 151.104 CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission may from time to time recommend to the Village
Council such changes in this chapter as they may deem necessary. Such changes
shall become effective after their adoptions by Council as amendments of this
chapter.
   (B)   The Council, upon the recommendations of the Planning Commission, may
approve variations from the requirements of the chapter in specific cases where
such variations do not affect the general plat or spirit of this chapter.
(Ord. 57-1981, passed 10-21-81; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter or who fails to comply with any order issued pursuant thereto shall
forfeit and pay not less than $10 nor more than $500 for each offense. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues. Such summary may be recovered in a civil action
brought in the Court of Common Pleas in the county by the Solicitor in the name
of the village.
(Ord. 57-1981, passed 10-21-81; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
APPENDIX A: TYPICAL MINOR SUBDIVISION MAP
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c73219de14ab53980697a9b859c768ba5c7e4a93/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2087.png]
APPENDIX B: APPLICATION FOR PRELIMINARY PLAN APPROVAL
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c73219de14ab53980697a9b859c768ba5c7e4a93/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2089.png]
APPENDIX C: PRELIMINARY STEPS CERTIFICATION FORM
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c73219de14ab53980697a9b859c768ba5c7e4a93/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2091.png]
APPENDIX D: TYPICAL PRELIMINARY PLAN SUBDIVISION MAP
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c73219de14ab53980697a9b859c768ba5c7e4a93/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2093.png]
APPENDIX E: APPLICATION FOR FINAL PLAT APPROVAL
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c73219de14ab53980697a9b859c768ba5c7e4a93/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2095.png]
APPENDIX F: TYPICAL PLAT SUBDIVISION MAP
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c73219de14ab53980697a9b859c768ba5c7e4a93/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2097.png]
APPENDIX G: EXAMPLES OF CERTIFICATIONS AND STATEMENTS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c73219de14ab53980697a9b859c768ba5c7e4a93/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2099.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c73219de14ab53980697a9b859c768ba5c7e4a93/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2101.png]
APPENDIX I: TYPICAL PLANTING PLAN
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c73219de14ab53980697a9b859c768ba5c7e4a93/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2105.png]
CHAPTER 152: ZONING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Title
   
152.002   Definitions
   
152.003   Interpretation
   
152.004   Conflict
General District Regulations
   
152.015   Purposes of districts
   
152.016   District boundaries
   
152.017   Effect of establishment of districts
   
152.018   Nonconforming uses
   
152.019   Restoring unsafe buildings
   
152.020   Accessory structures
   
152.021   Double frontage lots
   
152.022   Corner lots
   
152.023   Permitted height exceptions
   
152.024   Off-street parking
   
152.028   Customary home occupations
   
152.029   Mobile homes and trailers
   
152.030   Trees; corner clearance
   
152.031   Oil and gas drilling
   
152.032   Location of sexually oriented businesses
   
152.033   Riparian setback
   
152.034   Sale of vehicles
   
152.035   Construction and rubbish dumpsters
   
152.036   Dumpster bags
   
152.037   Exterior lighting
District Regulations
   
152.045   R-1 Residential District
   
152.046   R-2 Residential District
   
152.0461   R-3 Residential District
   
152.047   C-1 Commercial District
   
152.048   CB Central Business District
   
152.049   I-1 Industrial Districts
   
152.050   P-1 Park District
   
152.052   PUD Planned Use Development – Mixed District
Drilling Wells
   
152.090   Purpose
   
152.091   Permit and conditional use zoning classification required
   
152.092   Application requirements
   
152.093   Easements within village property; fees
   
152.094   Standards for review by the Planning Commission and Council
   
152.095   Procedures and general requirements
   
152.096   Specific requirements
Conditional Zoning Certificates
   
152.110   Purpose
   
152.111   Procedures for making application
   
152.112   Standards and requirements for conditional uses
   
152.113   Specific regulations pertaining to conditionally permissible uses
   
152.114   Other requirements
Administration and Enforcement
   
152.125   Board of Zoning Appeals
   
152.126   Administrative officials
   
152.127   Citation procedure
   
152.128   Zoning permit required
   
152.129   Exhibits accompanying applications
   
152.130   Payment of fees
   
152.132   Retraction clause
   
152.133   District changes and ordinance amendments
 
   
152.999   Penalty
   
Appendix B:   Diagrams
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Zoning Ordinance of Mogadore Village,
Summit-Portage Counties Ohio.
(Ord. passed 12-11-90; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 152.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words
used in the present tense include the future, the singular number includes the
plural and the plural the singular. The meaning of words used in this chapter
when they are not defined herein, shall be the meaning given those words by the
latest edition of Webster's New Collegiate Dictionary.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A subordinate structure detached from, but located on
the same lot as the principal building, the use of which is incidental and
accessory to that of the main structure or use.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE OR USE. A subordinate use of a structure customarily
incident to, and located on the same lot, with the main use or structure.
Satellite dish antennas are to be treated as accessory structures.
   ALTERATIONS, STRUCTURAL. Any change in the supporting members of a building
such as bearing walls, columns, beams, or girders.
   BASEMENT. A story all or partly underground but having at least stone half
of its height below the average level of the adjoining ground.
   BILLBOARD. An advertising sign having more than 100 square feet of display
surface either erected on the ground or attached to or supported by another
structure.
   BUILDING. Any structure having one or more stories and a roof, designed
primarily for the shelter, support or enclosure or persons, animals, or
property or any kind. BUILDING includes the word STRUCTURE and included
advertising signs, tents, lunch wagons, dining cars, camp cars, or other
structures on wheels or other supports and used for business, commercial or
living purposes.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the average elevation
of the proposed finished grade at the front of the building to the highest
point of the roof for flat roofs, to the deck line of mansard roofs, and the
mean height between eaves and ridge for gable, hip or gambrel roofs.
   BUILDING LINE OR FRONT YARD LINE. A line on or back of the street line
between which line and the street line no building or portion thereof, except
as provided in this chapter, may be erected above the grade level. The building
lines, street lines, and center lines of streets mentioned herein are
considered vertical planes intersecting the ground on these respective lines.
   CELLAR. That portion of a building below the first-floor joists at least
half of whose clear ceiling height is below the mean level of the adjacent
ground. A cellar shall not be used for calculating the number of square feet
for required habitation.
   COMPREHENSIVE DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A plan, or any portion thereof, adopted by
the Planning Commission and the legislative authority of the village showing
the general location and extent of present and proposed physical facilities
including housing, industrial and commercial uses, major thoroughfares, parks,
schools, and other community facilities. This plan establishes the goals,
objectives, and policies of the community.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use permitted within a district other than a principally
permitted use, requiring a conditional use permit and approval of the Board of
Zoning Appeals. Conditional uses permitted in each district are listed in the
Official Schedule of District Regulations.
   CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT. A permit issued by the Zoning Inspector upon
approval by the Board of Zoning Appeals to allow a use other than a principally
permitted use to be established within the district.
   CONSTRUCTION DUMPSTER. Any roll-off or similar unit intended for the
collection of large quantities of trash, garbage, housewares, building or
construction debris, yard waste, or trees and limbs. Such units are commonly
designed to be delivered and collected by a roll-off truck. CONSTRUCTION
DUMPSTER does not include any garbage can that can be moved by an individual or
any rubbish dumpster.
   CONVALESCENT, BOARDING OR NURSING HOME. Refers to such home conducted with
the aged or mentally or physically infirmed within any abode, building,
institutional residences, or of three or more persons who, by reason of age or
mental or physical infirmities, are not capable of properly caring for
themselves or who are 65 years of age or upwards, and for which a license has
been issued by the Department of Public Welfare of the State of Ohio.
   DENSITY. A unit of measurement; the number of dwelling units per acre of
land.
      (1)   GROSS DENSITY. The number of dwelling units per acre of the total
land to be developed.
      (2)   NET DENSITY. The number of dwelling units per acre of land when the
acreage involved includes only the land devoted to residential uses.
   DEVIL STRIP. That portion of a street right-of-way between the edge of the
pavement, if the street is paved, or the driving surface of a dirt or gravel
road, and the street right-of-way line nearest that edge. (See STREET RIGHT-OF-
WAY LINE OR ALLEY LINE)
   DUMPSTER BAG. Any large bag intended for the collection of large quantities
of trash, garbage, housewares, building or construction debris, yard waste, or
trees and limbs, and designed to be picked up by a truck.
   DWELLING. Any building or structure (except a house trailer or mobile home
as defined by R.C. § 4501.01) which is wholly or partly used or intended to be
used for living or sleeping by one or more human occupants.
   DWELLING UNIT. Space, within a dwelling, comprising living, dining, sleeping
room or rooms, storage closets, as well as space and equipment for cooking,
bathing, and toilet facilities, all used by only one family and its household
employees.
      (1)   DWELLING INDUSTRIALIZED UNIT. An assembly of materials or products
comprising all or part of a total structure which, when constructed, is self-
sufficient or substantially self-sufficient and when installed, constitutes a
dwelling unit, except for necessary preparations for its placement, and
including a modular or sectional unit but not a mobile home.
      (2)   DWELLING MULTI-FAMILY. A dwelling consisting of three or more
dwelling units including condominiums with varying arrangements of entrances
and party walls. Multi-family housing may include public housing and
industrialized units.
      (3)   DWELLING, ROOMING HOUSE (BOARDING HOUSE, LODGING HOUSE, DORMITORY).
A dwelling or part thereof, other than a hotel, motel or restaurant where meals
and/or lodging are provided for compensation, for three or more unrelated
persons where no cooking or dining facilities are provided in the individual
rooms.
      (4)   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A dwelling consisting of a single dwelling
unit only, separated from other dwelling units by open space.
      (5)   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A dwelling consisting of two dwelling units
which may be either attached side by side or one above the other, each unit
having a separate or combined entrance or entrances.
   EASEMENT. Authorization by a property owner for the use by another, and for
a specified purpose, of any designated part of his property.
   FAMILY. Any number of individuals regularly living, cooking and eating
together as a single house-keeping unit on the premises.
   FLOOD PLAIN. That land, including the flood fringe and the flood way,
subject to inundation by the regional flood.
   FLOODWAY. That portion of the flood plain, including the channel, which is
reasonably required to convey the regional flood waters. Floods of less
frequent recurrence are usually contained completely within the floodway.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. That portion of the flood plain, excluding the floodway,
where development may be allowed under certain restrictions.
   FLOOR AREA OF A NON-RESIDENTIAL BUILDING (TO BE USED IN CALCULATING PARKING
REQUIREMENTS). The floor area of the specified uses excluding stairs,
washrooms, elevator shafts, maintenance shafts and rooms, storage spaces,
display windows, fitting rooms, and similar areas.
   FLOOR AREA OF A RESIDENTIAL BUILDING. The sum of the gross horizontal area
of the several floors of a residential building, excluding basement floor areas
not devoted to residential use, but including the area of roofed porches and
roofed terraces. All dimensions shall be measured between interior faces of
walls.
   FLOOR AREA, USABLE. Measurement of usable floor area shall be the sum of the
horizontal areas of the several floors of the building measured from the
interior faces of the exterior walls.
   FRONTAGE. Street frontage is the length of the line separating the property
from the street upon which it abuts and street frontage line is parallel to the
street center line.
   GARAGE.
      (1)   CAR LOT. A place where the primary business is the buying and/or
selling of new and/or used motor vehicles.
      (2)   PRIVATE GARAGE. A detached accessory building or portion of a
principal building for the parking or temporary storage of automobiles, travel
trailers and/or boats of the occupants of the premises and wherein:
         (a)   Not more than one space is rented for parking to person not
resident on the premises;
         (b)   No more than one commercial vehicle per dwelling unit is parked
or stored;
         (c)   The commercial vehicle permitted does not exceed two tons
capacity.
      (3)   PUBLIC GARAGE. A building or space, other than a private garage,
used for storing or repairing motor vehicles.
   GRADE LEVEL. The average elevation of the curb directly in front of the main
building, but where no such curb level has been established by the
municipality, the level of the ground at the middle of the traveled portion of
the street shall be considered the equivalent of the curb level. When the
street wall of the building is back more than ten feet from the street line,
the average grade level of the lots adjoining on each side, if higher than the
curb level, shall be considered the grade level for the building and lot.
   GASOLINE SERVICE (FILLING) STATION. A place where motor vehicle fuels or
lubricants are offered for sale to the public.
   HOSPITAL. Any building or structure containing beds for at least four
patients and devoted to the medical diagnosis, treatment, and care of human
ailments.
   HOTEL. A building in which lodging is offered or provided to the public for
compensation and which is open to transient guests.
   INDUSTRIAL PARK. An area of land in which a variety of industrial facilities
may be accommodated in a planned environment under more flexible standards,
such as lot size and setbacks, than those restrictions that would normally
apply under these regulations. The procedure for approval of such a development
contains requirements in addition to those normally required, such as building
design principles and landscaping plans.
   JUNK YARD. Any place using more than 25 square feet of land, building, or
structure, privately or commercially, where waste, discarded or salvaged
materials such as scrap metals; used building materials, lumber, glass,
discarded motor vehicles, paper, rags, rubber, barrels, etc., are sold, stored,
bought, exchanged, baled, packed, sorted, disassembled, dismantled or handled.
   LOADING SPACE, OFF-STREET. Space logically and conveniently located for bulk
pickups and deliveries, scaled to delivery vehicles expected to be used, and
accessible to such vehicles when required off-street parking spaces are filled.
Required off-street loading space is not to be included as off-street parking
space in computation of required off-street parking space. All off-street
loading spaces shall be located totally outside of any street or alley right-
of-way.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied or intended to be occupied by one main
building and the accessory buildings and uses customarily incident to such main
building and including such open spaces as are provided, or as required in this
chapter. This may or may not coincide with a lot of a recorded subdivision.
Includes the word PLOT. For the purposes of this chapter, a LOT is a parcel of
land of sufficient size to meet minimum zoning requirements for use, coverage,
and area, and to provide such yards and other open spaces as are herein
required. Such lot shall have frontage on an improved public street, or on an
approved private street, and may consist of: (1) A single lot of record; (2) A
portion of a lot of record; (3) A combination complete lots of record, or
complete lots of record and portions of lots of record, or of portions of lots
of record.
      (1)   SIDE LINE. Any lot line other than a front line or a rear line.
      (2)   SIDE LINE OF A CORNER LOT. The line lying along the narrower or
less important street, unless the lot is a sub-lot in a recorded subdivision
and is clearly intended to front on the narrower street.
   LOT COVERAGE. The ratio of enclosed ground floor area of all buildings on a
lot to the horizontally projected area of the lot, expressed as a percentage.
   LOT FRONTAGE. The front of a lot shall be construed to be the portion
nearest the street. For the purpose of determining yard requirements on corner
lots and through lots, all sides of a lot adjacent to streets shall be
considered frontage, and yards shall be provided as indicated under yards in
this section.
   LOT, MINIMUM AREA OF. The area of a lot is computed exclusive of any portion
of the right-of-way of any public or private street.
   LOT MEASUREMENTS. A lot shall be measured as follows:
      (1)   Depth. The distance between the mid-points of straight lines
connecting the foremost points of the side lot line in front and the rear most
points of the side lot lines in the rear.
      (2)   Width. The distance between straight lines connecting front and
rear lot lines at each side of the lot, measured at the building set back
lines.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision recorded in the office
of the County Recorder, or a lot or parcel described by metes and bounds, the
description of which has been so recorded.
   LOT TYPES. Terminology used in this chapter with reference to corner lots,
interior lots and through lots is as follows:
      (1)   CORNER LOT. A lot located at the intersection of two or more
streets. A lot abutting on a curved street or streets shall be considered a
corner lot if straight lines drawn from the foremost points of the side lot
lines at the foremost point of the lot meet at an interior angle of less than
315 degrees.
      (2)   INTERIOR LOT. A lot with only one frontage on a street.
      (3)   REVERSED FRONTAGE LOT. A lot on which frontage is at right angles
to the general pattern in the area. A reversed frontage lot may also be a
corner lot.
      (4)   THROUGH LOT. A lot other than a corner lot with frontage on more
than one street. Through lots abutting two streets may be referred to as double
frontage lots.
   MAIN BUILDING. The building or space occupied by the chief use or activity
on the premises.
   MOBILE HOME. Any non-self-propelled vehicle so designed, constructed,
reconstructed, or added to by means of accessories in such manner as will
permit the use and occupancy thereof for human habitations, when connected to
utilities, whether resting on wheels, jacks, blocks, or other temporary
foundation and used or so construed as to permit its being used as a conveyance
upon the public streets and highways and exceeding gross weight of 4,500 pounds
and overall length of 30 feet.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Any site, or tract of land under single ownership, upon
which three or more mobile homes used for habitation are parked, either free of
charge or for revenue purposes; including any roadway, building, structure,
vehicle, or enclosure used or intended for use as a part of the facilities of
such park.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. A use of a building or premises that does not comply
with the use regulations of a district in which it is located.
   OPEN SPACE. An area substantially open to the sky which may be on the same
lot with a building. The area may include, along with the natural environment
features, water areas, swimming pools, and tennis courts, any other
recreational facilities that the Planning (Zoning) Commission deems permissive.
Streets, parking areas, structure for habitations, and the like shall not be
included.
   PARKING SPACE, OFF-STREET. For the purpose of this chapter, an off-street
parking space shall consist of an area adequate for parking an automobile with
room for opening doors on both sides, together with properly related access to
a public street or alley and maneuvering room, but shall be located totally
outside of any street or alley right-of-way.
   PLANNED UNIT RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT. A planned, integrated, residential
development of at least 20 acres where minimum lot size and dwelling type may
be modified somewhat to achieve particular design objectives and the economical
provision of open space and utilities while maintaining the same overall
density limitations of the district in which the planned unit residential
development is located and complying with other pertinent requirements of this
chapter and site design requirements of the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   POULTRY. Domestic fowl for human consumption.
   PUBLIC NOTICE. Of a hearing or procedure means notice of the time and place
thereof published in one issue of a newspaper of general circulation in the
municipality at least three days before the hearing, plus posting in the
Municipal Building.
   PUBLIC USES. Public parks, schools, administrative and cultural buildings
and structures, not including public land or buildings devoted solely to the
storage and maintenance of equipment and materials and public service
facilities.
   RESIDENCE.
      (1)   MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING. A building designed and used exclusively for
housing three or more families living independently of each other.
      (2)   SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING. A dwelling entirely detached and
independent of any other structure and arranged intended or designed to be
occupied by a single family.
      (3)   TWO-FAMILY DWELLING. A detached dwelling arranged intended or
designed to be occupied by two families.
   RUBBISH DUMPSTER. Any large front load or rear load waste receptacle
intended for trash and garbage and designed to be picked up by and emptied
directly into a garbage truck.
   SET BACK LINE. A line established by this chapter generally parallel with
and measured from the lot line, defining the limits of a yard in which no
building, other than accessory building, or structure may be located above
ground, except as may be provided in this chapter.
   STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY LINE OR ALLEY LINE. The lot line dividing the lot from,
respectively, a street or an alley.
   SUITE, EFFICIENCY. A one room dwelling unit (See DWELLING UNIT).
   SWIMMING POOL. An artificial body of water or receptacle for water,
permanent or portable, filled or capable of being filled with water a depth of
24 inches or more and used, or intended to be used, for swimming or
recreational bathing.
      (1)   COMMERCIAL SWIMMING POOL. An artificially contained body of water,
whether located indoors or outdoors, used or intended to be used for public,
semi-public or private swimming, whether or not any fee is imposed, and
includes all structures, equipment, and other facilities intended for the
operation and maintenance of a swimming pool.
      (2)   PRIVATE SWIMMING POOL. One maintained by an individual for the sole
use of his household and guests without charge or the purpose of profit and not
in connection with any business operated for profit, located as an accessory
use on the same lot as his residence.
   THOROUGHFARE, STREET, OR ROAD. The full width between property lines
bounding every public way of whatever nature, with a part thereof to be used
for vehicular service access to the back or side of properties abutting on
another street.
      (1)   ALLEY. A minor street used primarily for vehicular service access
to the back or side of properties abutting on another street.
      (2)   ARTERIAL STREET. A general term denoting a highway primarily for
through traffic, carrying heavy loads and large volume of traffic, usually on a
continuous route.
      (3)   COLLECTOR STREET. A thoroughfare, whether within a residential,
industrial, commercial, or other type of development, which primarily carries
traffic from local streets to arterial streets, including the principal
entrance and circulation routes within residential subdivisions.
      (4)   CUL-DE-SAC. A local street of relatively short length, with one end
open to traffic and the other end terminating in a vehicular turnaround.
      (5)   DEAD-END STREET. A street temporarily having only one outlet for
vehicular traffic and intended to be extended or continued in the future.
      (6)   LOCAL STREET. A street primarily for providing access to
residential or other abutting property.
      (7)   LOOP STREET. A type of local street, each end of which terminates
at an intersection with the same arterial or collector street, and whose
principal radius points of the 180-degree system of turns are not more than
1,000 feet from said arterial or collector street, nor normally more than 600
feet from each other.
      (8)   MARGINAL ACCESS STREET. A local or collector street, parallel and
adjacent to an arterial or collector street, providing access to abutting
properties and protection from arterial or collector streets.
   TREES. Trees are herein defined as trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other
woody vegetation on land lying between property lines on either side of all
streets, avenues, or ways within the village.
   USE. The specific purpose for which land or a building is designated,
arranged, intended, or for which it is or may be occupied or maintained.
   USED CAR LOT. Any lot on which two or more motor vehicles which have been
previously titled in a name other than the manufacturer or dealer, are in
operating condition and offered for sale or displayed to the public.
   VARIANCE. Any variance is a modification of the strict terms of the relevant
regulations where such modification will not be contrary to the public interest
and where owing to conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of
the action of the applicant, a literal enforcement of the regulations would
result in unnecessary and undue hardship.
   YARD. An existing or required space on the same lot with the main building
and lying along the adjacent lot line, or street line, open and unobstructed
from the ground to the sky, except as other provided herein.
      (1)   FRONT YARD. The yard across the full width of the lot extending
from the building or front yard line to the street line.
      (2)   INTERIOR SIDE YARD. A side yard not abutting a street line.
      (3)   REAR YARD. A yard across the full width of the lot immediately to
the rear of the main building. It is the yard accessible to the rear entrance
and used, or to be used, as a rear yard. On corner lots, the rear yard shall be
considered as parallel to the street upon which the lot has its least
dimension. It may or may not be on the opposite side of the building from the
front yard.
      (4)   SIDE YARD. The yard along the side line of a lot and extending from
the front yard to the rear yard thereof.
   ZONING PERMIT. A document issued by the village authorizing certain
activities, the use of lots, structures, uses of land and structures, and the
characteristics of the uses.
(Ord. passed 12-11-90; Am. Ord. 17, passed 3-19-97; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed
11-20-18; Am. Res. 2019-61, passed 6-19-19; Am. Ord. 2019-62, passed 8-21-19;
Am. Ord. 2020-36, passed 6-3-20)
§ 152.003 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter are
to be considered the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the
public health, safety and welfare and to protect the light and pure air,
clarify safety from fire and other danger, to prevent an undue concentration of
population and provide ample parking facilities.
(Ord. passed 12-11-90; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 152.004 CONFLICT.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal or in any way impair or interfere
with existing provisions of other laws or ordinances, except those specifically
or by necessary implication repealed by this chapter, or with private
restrictions placed upon property by covenant, deed or other private agreement,
or with restrictive covenants running with the land and to which the
municipality is a party. Where this chapter imposes a greater restriction upon
land, buildings or structures than is imposed or required by such existing
provisions of law, ordinance, contract or deed, the provisions of this chapter
shall control.
(Ord. passed 12-11-90)
GENERAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 152.015 PURPOSES OF DISTRICTS.
   The purposes of districts are as follows:
   (A)   To divide the entire village into the types of districts deemed best
suited to carry out the purpose of this chapter;
   (B)   To prohibit uses or buildings incompatible with the character of such
districts;
   (C)   To regulate and limit the height, bulk, and uses of buildings
hereafter to be erected;
   (D)   To prevent the enlarging or alteration of existing buildings in such
manner as to evade the restrictions and limitations lawfully imposed by this
chapter;
   (E)   To regulate and determine minimum areas for open spaces adjacent to
buildings; and
   (F)   To regulate and limit density of development, the village is hereby
divided into eight types of districts known as:
      (1)   R-1 Residential
      (2)   R-2 Residential
      (3)   R-3 Residential
      (4)   C-1 Commercial
      (5)   CB Central Business
      (6)   I-1 Industrial
      (7)   P-1 Park District
      (8)   PUD Planned Use Development
(Ord. passed 12-11-90; Am. Ord. 12, passed 4-5-00; Am. Ord. 20, passed 5-3-00;
Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 152.016 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Boundaries of districts are shown on the Mogadore Zoning Map, a copy
of which is attached to Ordinance 64-1980 and made a part of this chapter by
reference. The map and all notations, references, and other information shown
thereon shall be as much a part of this chapter as if the items were fully
described herein. The District Map is properly attested and is on file with the
Clerk-Treasurer. Questions concerning the exact location of District boundary
lines shall be determined by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (B)   All territory hereafter annexed to the village shall be in the
existing zone classification at the time of annexation.
   (C)   Whenever any street or public walkway is vacated by the Village
Council, zoning districts adjoining each side of such street or walkway shall
automatically be extended to the center of the vacated area, all of which shall
thereafter be subject to all appropriate regulations of the extended districts.
(Ord. passed 12-11-90; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 152.017 EFFECT OF ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   (A)   No land or building shall be put to or designated for any use other
than is permitted in the district where the land or building is located.
   (B)   No building shall be erected, reconstructed, enlarged, structurally
altered, or moved, in such manner as to evade conformity with height, bulk,
yard, lot area, and other regulations for the district in which such building
is located.
   (C)   Every building hereafter erected, reconstructed, enlarged,
structurally altered, or moved, shall be located on a lot as herein defined.
   (D)   No yard, provided adjacent to a building for the purpose of complying
with provision of this chapter shall be considered as providing any part of a
yard for another building on the same lot or on an adjacent lot.
   (E)   No public street right-of-way shall serve as any part of a required
yard or minimum lot area.
   (F)   No yard shall be so diminished as to make its width or depth less than
the dimensions required by this chapter.
   (G)   Along any boundary line between districts, an abutting side yard or
rear yard in the less restricted district shall have a minimum required width
or depth equal to the average of the required minimum widths or depths for such
yards in the districts adjoining said boundary line.
(Ord. passed 12-11-90; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.018 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Continuation of non-conforming uses. The lawful use of any building,
structure, or land existing at the time of the enactment of this chapter may be
continuos, although such use does not conform with the provisions of this
chapter, provided the following conditions are met:
      (1)   Unsafe structures. Nothing in this chapter shall prevent restoring
to a safe condition any portion of a building or structure declared unsafe by a
proper authority as defined by ordinance.
      (2)   Alterations. A non-conforming building or structure may be altered,
improved or reconstructed but not enlarged or extended, provided such work is
not to an extent exceeding in the aggregate cost 50% of the replacement value
of the building or structure, unless the building or structure is changed to a
conforming use.
      (3)   Extension. A non-conforming use shall not be extended but the
extension of lawful use to any portion of a non-conforming building or
structure which existed prior to the enactment of this chapter shall not be
deemed the extension of such non-conforming use.
      (4)   Changes. A non-conforming use may be changed to another non-
conforming use if the proposed non-conforming use is in less conflict with the
character and use of the district than the existing non-conforming use.
      (5)   Construction approved prior to ordinance. Nothing herein shall
require any change in plans, construction or designated use of a building or
structure for which a building permit has been issued and the construction of
which shall have been diligently prosecuted within 90 days of the date of the
permit.
      (6)   Restoration. Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the
reconstruction, repairing, rebuilding, and continued use of any non-conforming
building or structure damaged by fire, collapse, explosion, or Acts of God
after the date of this chapter, where the expense of such work does not exceed
50% of the replacement cost of the building or structure at the time such
damage occurred and the restoration is completed within 12 months from the date
of damage and in accordance with this chapter and the building code.
      (7)   Abandonment. A non-conforming use has been discontinued for a
period of one year or more. Such discontinuance shall be considered conclusive
evidence of an intention to legally abandon the non-conforming use.
   (B)   Displacement. No non-conforming use shall be extended to displace a
conforming use.
   (C)   District changes. Whenever the boundaries of a district are changed so
as to transfer an area from one district to another district of a different
classification, the provisions of §
152.017 and division (A) of this section shall also apply to any non-conforming
uses existing therein.
   (D)   Junk yards. No person, firm or corporation shall store or permit
storage for a period of more than 15 days of any partly dismantled, inoperable
and unlicensed, or wrecked vehicles or their parts; second-hand building
materials; junk, paper, containers, or other salvaged articles, including,
without limitation, old iron, glass, garbage waste, or discarded materials,
upon any lot or land situated within the boundaries of any residential,
commercial or industrial area unless same is completely enclosed within a
building or garage and is clearly ancillary or incidental to the permitted use
or is a use specifically permitted by the applicable district regulations. Such
15-day period shall run from the date that such person, firm, or corporation is
notified, in writing, by the Village Zoning and Building Inspector, the Village
Council or their agent, that such storage is in violation of this section.
Impound lots designated by the Safety Department of the village are permitted
storage times of up to one year.
(Ord. passed 12-11-90; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.019 RESTORING UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the strengthening or restoring to a
safe condition of any part of any structure declared unsafe by the authorized
entity or exempt any structure from compliance with any lawful requirement.
(Ord. passed 12-11-90; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 152.020 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Any accessory structure attached to the principal structure, shall
comply in all respects with the requirements applicable to the principal
structure.
   (B)   Detached accessory structures may be built in the rear yard no closer
to the rear and side lot lines than the minimum required yards. The Village
Engineer or Inspector may approve up to a 50% reduction in the required setback
for detached accessory structures. A detached accessory structure that is
replacing an existing detached accessory structure that located closer to the
lot lines than the minimum requirements shall be permitted to match or increase
the distance from the lot lines which the existing detached accessory structure
is located.
   (C)   Detached accessory structures shall be located no closer than ten feet
to any other structure.
   (D)   The maximum combined area of all detached accessory structures shall
not exceed 20% of the area of the rear yard.
   (E)   On a corner lot, no accessory structure shall project beyond the front
yard line on either street.
   (F)   Only one detached garage per lot may be constructed not to exceed 700
square feet in Residence R-1 District, 1,050 square feet in Residence R-
2 District, or 1,050 square feet in Residence R-3 District.
   (G)   Detached accessory structures shall not be greater in height than 15
feet.
   (H)   No accessory structure shall be constructed on a lot until
construction of 50% or more of the principal building has been completed, and
no accessory structure shall be used for dwelling purposes.
(Ord. passed 12-11-90; Am. Ord. 8-1993, passed 2-17-93; Am. Ord. 12, passed 4-
5-00; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18; Am. Ord. 2020-35, passed 6-3-20)
Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.021 DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOTS.
   On such lots, the required front yard shall be provided on both streets.
(Ord. passed 12-11-90; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.022 CORNER LOTS.
   On any corner lot the front yard requirements shall be observed on both
streets. No obstruction to view in excess of two feet in height shall be placed
on any corner lot within a triangular area formed by the street right-of-way
lines and a line connecting them at points 30 feet from the intersection of the
street lines, except that street trees are permitted which are pruned at least
eight feet above the established grade of the roadway so as not to obstruct
clear view by motor vehicle drivers.
(Ord. passed 12-11-90; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.023 PERMITTED HEIGHT EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Except as specifically stated in other parts of this chapter, no
building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or altered to
exceed the height limit thereafter established for the district in which the
building is located, except that penthouse or roof structures for the housing
of elevators, stairways, tanks, ventilating fans or similar equipment required
to operate and maintain the building and fire or parapet walls, skylights,
towers, steeples, stage lofts, and screens, flag poles, chimneys, smoke stacks,
radio and television aerials, wireless masts, water tanks or similar structures
may be erected about the height limits herein. No such structure may be erected
to exceed by more than 15 feet the height limits of the district in which it is
located; nor shall such structure have a total area greater than 25% of the
roof area of the building; nor shall such structure be used for any purpose
other than a use incidental to the main use of the building, except that radio,
television, and wireless aerials or masts may be erected to any height.
   (B)   Public or quasi-public buildings, when permitted in a district, may be
erected to a height not to exceed 45 feet, except that churches and temples may
be erected to a height not to exceed 75 feet if the building is set back from
each yard line at least one foot for each foot of additional building height
above the height limit otherwise provided in the district in which the building
is located.
(Ord. passed 12-11-90; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.024 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   In all districts, in connection with every building or part thereof
hereafter created, off-street parking facilities shall be provided as
prescribed by this section.
   (A)   Minimum number of off-street parking spaces required.
      (1)   Auditorium, stadium and similar uses - one for each five seats
based on maximum seating capacity.
      (2)   Business and professional offices and banks - one for each 200
square feet of floor area plus one space for each two employees.
      (3)   Bowling alleys - four for each alley plus one space for each two
employees.
      (4)   Church and school auditoriums - one for each five seats in the
principal auditorium, based on maximum seating capacity.
      (5)   Clubs and lodges - one per 200 square feet of floor area or one per
four seating spaces in the assembly room, whichever is greater.
      (6)   Dance halls, skating rinks - one per 100 square feet of floor area.
      (7)   Dwellings - two parking spaces for each dwelling unit.
      (8)   Funeral homes, mortuaries - two per chapel room or parlor or one
per 100 square feet of floor area.
      (9)   Hospitals, health or medical centers or clinics:
         (a)   Bed establishments - one parking space for each two beds.
         (b)   Non-bed establishments - one space for each 200 square feet of
floor area.
         (c)   Bed and non-bed establishments - one space for each three
employees.
      (10)   Hotels - one parking space for each one sleeping room.
      (11)   Libraries and museums - one space for each 500 square feet of
floor area plus one space for each two employees.
      (12)   Medical and dental offices and clinics - five for each physician
or dentist plus one for each two other employees.
      (13)   Manufacturing plants - one for each employee on the maximum
working shift.
      (14)   Restaurants and taverns operating within areas zoned CB Central
Business - one per four seats of seating capacity.
      (15)   Retail stores, super markets etc. - one for each 100 square feet
of floor area.
      (16)   Theaters - one for each four seats.
      (17)   Automobile repair garage - one space for each two employees plus
one for each 500 square feet of floor area.
      (18)   Where the Board of Zoning Appeals is satisfied that the location,
nature or uniqueness of a particular use within an area zoned Center Business,
make a variance in the parking requirement appropriate, it may, upon
application, permit an additional variance up to 50% of the required parking
area.
   (B)   Off-street accessory parking areas. Off-street accessory parking areas
shall provide parking spaces, each of which shall be not less than 200 square
feet in area having dimensions of ten feet in width and 20 feet in length
exclusive of access drives or aisles.
   (C)   Surfacing and lighting. Such parking areas shall be of usable shape,
improved with bituminous concrete or equivalent surfacing, and so graded and
drained as to dispose of all surface water accumulation within area subject to
the approval of the Village Engineer. All lighting used to illuminate such
parking areas shall be so arranged as to direct the light away from the
adjoining premises or streets and no open light sources such as the stringing
of light bulbs shall be permitted.
      (1)   The standard used shall be the Illuminating Engineering Society of
North America (IESNA). Average light levels for parking lot designs shall vary
between the 1.25 to 5-foot candle (fc) range depending on surrounding terrain
and structures. Vertical structures (trees, building walls, etc.) of dark color
may absorb light, etc. There should not contain a variance of more than 4:
1 between the brightest spot and the least illuminated spot nearby.
   (D)   Wheel guards. Wheel guards including bumper guards as may be
necessary, shall be provided in connection with any off-street parking area of
five cars or more, and shall be constructed so as to confine the storm water
surface drainage to prevent bumper over-hang or other encroachment into the
required or specified set back spaces.
   (E)   Entrances and exits. Entrances and exits shall be located to minimize
traffic congestion and avoid undue interference with pedestrian access at
street intersection corners. There shall not be more than two access ways
abutting any streets. Such access driveways shall be not less than ten feet or
more than 20 feet in width at the sidewalk line nor more than 30 feet at the
curb cut line of street. Residential use may have access ways of not less than
ten feet. Commercial and industrial uses shall have access ways of not less
than 20 feet.
   (F)   Spaces for more than ten vehicles. Spaces for more than ten vehicles
shall be completely obscured to a height of five feet on each side which
adjoins any residence district.
   (G)   Yard restrictions. In all C-1, CB and I-1 Districts, off-street
parking facilities may be located in all yards provided that at least a 20-
foot-wide landscaped strip is located between the parking area and the street
right-of-way line. When off-street parking facilities are located in the
required side or rear yard on the portion of the lot adjacent to a parcel in a
R-1, R-2, R-3, or P-1 District, a minimum ten-foot-wide landscaped area shall
be located between such parking area and the side or rear lot line, and such
parking lot shall be screened from the adjacent parcel by a fence, wall or
compact hedge at least four feet in height.
   (H)   Landscaping. Parking areas, in any zoning district, shall be provided
with 15 square feet of landscaping per space within the parking area which
shall be distributed reasonably evenly across the parking area when any of the
following conditions exist:
      (1)   The parking area has a minimum of 15 parking spaces.
      (2)   The parking area consists of one or more double-loaded parking
aisles.
      (3)   The parking area, or portion thereof, is in full view from the
street right-of-way or adjacent to a R-1, R-2, R-3 or P-1 District.
   (I)   Location of required parking spaces. No parking of motor vehicles
shall be permitted nor shall any person park motor vehicle in a landscaped
front, side, or rear yard area. No parking of a motor vehicle shall be
permitted on any portion of a lot designated as an accessory structure, such as
a patio, porch, or deck. Further, no changes shall be made to the size of a
driveway or parking area of any property located in all districts within the
village without first obtaining an approval of the Planning and Zoning
Commission and upon that approval obtaining a permit from the office of the
Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. passed 12-11-90; Am. Ord. 36, passed 7-2-02; Am. Ord. 2012-30, passed 6-
6-12; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.028 CUSTOMARY HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   Such use shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the
dwelling for dwelling purposes.
   (B)   Such use shall be conducted only by persons residing in the dwelling
unit.
   (C)   The use shall not involve more than 25% of the floor area.
   (D)   No activity, materials, goods or equipment indicative of the proposed
use shall be visible from any public way or adjacent property.
   (E)   One unlighted name plate not more than one square foot in area
announcing the name of the home occupation shall be permitted.
   (F)   Such use shall not create a nuisance by reason of noise, order, dust,
vibration, fumes, smoke, electrical interference or other causes which
constitute or become a public or private nuisance.
(Ord. passed 12-11-90; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.029 MOBILE HOMES AND TRAILERS.
   (A)   The following regulations shall apply to mobile homes and trailers:
      (1)   A mobile home/trailer shall not be considered to be permissible as
an accessory structure.
      (2)   No person shall park or store a mobile home/trailer, except in the
rear yard.
      (3)   No person shall occupy a mobile home/trailer for living purposes
except:
         (a)   In a mobile home/trailer park,
         (b)   In any residential district as a guest of the resident of the
property involved for a period of not over 72 hours in any 30-day period.
   (B)   A mobile home/trailer may be used as a temporary office, or building
incidental to construction on a development of the premises on which the
trailer is located, only during the time construction or development is
actively underway.
(Ord. passed 12-11-90; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18) Penalty, §
152.999
§ 152.032 LOCATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. It is the purpose of this section to regulate
sexually oriented businesses to promote the health, safety, morals and general
welfare of the citizens of the village and to establish reasonable and uniform
regulations to prevent the concentrations of sexually oriented businesses
within the village. The provisions of this section have neither the purpose or
effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of any
communicative materials. Similarly, it is not the intent nor effect of this
section to restrict or deny access by adults to sexually oriented materials
protected by the First Amendments, or to deny access to the distributors and
exhibitors of sexually oriented entertainment to their intended market.
   (B)   Definitions.
      (1)   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult arcade, adult book store,
adult video stores, adult cabaret, or adult theater.
      (2)   ADULT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited
wherein coin operated, slug-operated or electronically, electrically, or
mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other
image producing devices are maintained to show images to ten or fewer persons
per machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are
distinguished or characterized by the depicting or describing of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (3)   ADULT BOOK STORE OR ADULT VIDEO STORE. A commercial establishment
which, as one of its principal business purposes, offers for sale or rental,
for any form of consideration, any one or more of the following:
         (a)   Books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes or video reproductions,
slides, or other visual representations which depict or describe "specified
sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas;" or
         (b)   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed for
use in connection with "specified sexual activities."
      (4)   ADULT CABARET. A night club, bar, restaurant or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features:
         (a)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity; or
         (b)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
"specified anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities."
      (5)   ADULT THEATER. A commercial establishment with the capacity to
serve ten or more persons where, for any form of consideration, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar photographic reproductions are
regularly shown which are characterized by the depiction or description of
"specified anatomical areas" or "specified sexual activities."
      (6)   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Human male genitals in a state of
sexual arousal, human pubic region, buttocks, and female breasts below a point
immediately above the top of the areola.
      (7)   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Includes any of the following:
         (a)   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genital, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breasts;
         (b)   Any actual or simulated sex acts;
         (c)   Actual or simulated masturbation; or
         (d)   Excretory functions as part of or in connections with any of the
activities set forth in divisions (B)(7)(a) through (c) above.
      (8)   NUDITY.
         (a)   The appearance of human bare buttocks, anus, male genitals,
female genitals, or female breast; or
         (b)   A state of dress which fails to opaquely cover a human buttock,
anus, male genitals, female genitals, or areola of the female breast.
   (C)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   No person shall exercise supervisory control, manage, generate,
cause the establishment, or permit the establishment of sexually oriented
business within the village, within 500 feet of:
         (a)   A church;
         (b)   A public or private school;
         (c)   A boundary of a residential district as described in §
152.045 and
152.046; or
         (d)   A public park.
      (2)   No person shall exercise supervisory control, manage, operate,
cause the establishment or permit the establishment of a sexually oriented
business within the village within 500 feet from any other sexually oriented
business.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, measurement shall be made in a straight
line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the nearest
point of the building or structure used as part of the premises where a
sexually oriented business is conducted, to the nearest property line of the
premises of a church, public or private school, boundary or a residential
district, or boundary of a public park.
(Ord. 41-1996, passed 10-16-96; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18) Penalty, see
§
152.999
§ 152.033 RIPARIAN SETBACK.
   (A)   Public purpose.
      (1)   It is hereby determined that the system of streams within the
village contributes to the health, safety and general welfare of the residents
of the village. The purpose of this riparian setback section is to protect and
preserve the water quality within streams of the village and to protect
residents of the village from property loss and damage because of flooding and
other impacts of the streams. The method of implementing this section is by
controlling uses and developments within a riparian setback that would impair
the ability of the riparian area to:
         (a)   Reduce flood impacts by absorbing peak flows slowing the
velocity of flood waters and regulating base flow.
         (b)   Stabilize the banks of streams to reduce bank erosion and the
downstream transport of sediments eroded from stream banks.
         (c)   Reduce pollutants in streams during periods of high flows by
filtering, settling and transforming pollutants already present in streams.
         (d)   Reduce the pollutants in streams during periods of high flows by
filtering, settling and transforming pollutants in runoff before they enter
streams.
         (e)   Provide areas for natural meandering and lateral movement of
stream channels.
         (f)   Reduce the presence of aquatic nuisance species to maintain
diverse and connected riparian vegetation.
         (g)   Provide high quality stream habitats with shade and food to a
wide array of wildlife by maintaining diverse and connected riparian
vegetation.
         (h)   Benefit the village economically by minimizing encroachment on
stream channels and reducing the need for costly engineering solutions such as
dams and riprap, to protect structures and reduce property damage and threats
to the safety of watershed residents, and by contributing to the life of the
residents of the village and corresponding property values.
         (i)   Protect the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of the
village.
      (2)   The following regulation has been enacted to protect the services
of riparian areas by providing reasonable controls governing structures and
uses in riparian setbacks.
   (B)   Applicability, compliance, and violations.
      (1)   The provisions of this section shall apply to all lands within the
village.
      (2)   No preliminary plan, building, or zoning approval shall be issued
by the village without full compliance with the terms of these regulations
where applicable.
      (3)   Any person or organization that violates the provisions of this
section shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be subject to punishment and shall be required to restore the riparian
setback through a plan approved by the village.
      (4)   The provisions of this section may be enforced through civil or
criminal proceedings brought by the village on behalf of the village.
   (C)   Conflicts with other regulations and severability.
      (1)   Where this section imposes a greater restriction upon land than is
imposed or required by any other provision of law, regulation, contract or
deed, the provisions of this section shall control.
      (2)   These regulations shall not limit or restrict the application of
other provisions of law, regulations, contract, or deed, or the legal remedies
available thereunder, except as provided in division (A) of this section.
      (3)   If any clause, section, or provision of these regulations is
declared invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction,
validity of the remainder shall not be affected thereby.
   (D)   Definitions.
      APPLICANT. Any person who executes the necessary forms to procure
official approval of a project or a permit to carry out a project.
      BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs). Conservation practices or protection
measures which reduce impacts from a particular land use. Best Management
Practices for construction are outlined in "Rainwater and Land Development,
Ohio's Standard for Storm Water Management, Land Development, and Urban Stream
Protection" prepared by the Ohio Department of Natural Resources.
      DAMAGED OR DISEASED TREES. Trees that have a split trunk, broken tops,
heart rot, or insect or fungus problems that will lead to imminent death,
undercut root systems that put the tree in imminent danger of falling, leaning
as a result of root failure that puts the tree in imminent danger of falling,
or any other condition that puts the tree in imminent danger of being uprooted
or falling into or along a stream or onto a structure.
      DEFINED CHANNEL. A natural or man-made depression in the terrain which is
maintained and altered by the water and sediment it carries.
      FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (FEMA). The agency with overall
responsibility for administering the National Flood Insurance Program.
      FINAL PLAT. A final tracing of all or a phase of a subdivision and its
complete survey information.
      IMPERVIOUS COVER. Any surface that cannot effectively absorb or
infiltrate water. This may include roads, streets, parking lots, roof tops,
sidewalks and other areas not covered by vegetation.
      NATURAL SUCCESSION. A gradual and continuous replacement of one kind of
plant and animal group by a more complex group.
      NOXIOUS WEED. Any plant defined as a "noxious weed and rank vegetation"
in § 521.10 in the Codified Ordinances of the County of Summit, Ohio or as a
"noxious weed an rank vegetation" in §
93.50 of this Code of Ordinances.
      OHIO RAPID ASSESSMENT METHOD. A multi-parameter qualitative index
established by the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency to evaluate wetland
quality and function.
      100-YEAR FLOOD PLAIN. Any land susceptible to being inundated by water
from a base flood, which is the flood that has a 1% or greater chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year. For the purposes of these regulations
the 100-year flood plain shall be defined by FEMA and approved by the Village
Engineer.
      ORDINARY HIGH-WATER MARK. The point of the bank or shore to which the
presence and action of surface water is so continuous as to leave a district
marked by erosion, destruction or prevention of woody terrestrial vegetation,
predominance of aquatic vegetation or other easily recognized characteristic.
The ordinary high-water mark defines the channel of a stream.
      POLLUTION. Any contamination or alteration of the physical, chemical, or
biological properties of any waters that will render the waters harmful or
detrimental to; public legitimate beneficial uses; livestock, wildlife,
including birds, fish, or other aquatic life.
         (a)   POINT SOURCE. Pollution is traceable to a discrete point or
pipe.
         (b)   NON-POINT SOURCE. Pollution is generated by various land use
activities rather than from an identifiable or discrete source, and is conveyed
to waterways through natural processes, such as rainfall, storm runoff, or
ground water seepage, rather than direct discharge.
      PRELIMINARY PLAN. A drawing of a major subdivision for the purpose of
study and which, if approved, permits proceeding with the preparation of the
final plat.
      RIPARIAN AREA. A transitional area between flowing water and terrestrial
ecosystems, which provides continuous exchange of nutrients and woody debris
between land and water. This area is at least periodically influenced by
flooding. Riparian areas, if appropriately sized and managed, help to stabilize
banks, limit erosion, reduce flood size flows and/or filter and settle out
runoff pollutants, or perform other functions consistent with the purposes of
these regulations.
      RIPARIAN SETBACK. The area setback from each bank of a stream to protect
the riparian area and stream from impacts of development, and stream side
residents from impacts of flooding and land loss through erosion. Riparian
setbacks are those lands within the village that fall within the area defined
by the criteria set forth in these regulations.
      SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION DISTRICT (SWCD). An entity organized under
R.C. Chapter 1515 referring to either the Soil and Water Conservation District
Board or its designated employees, hereinafter referred to as the Summit SWD.
      SOIL DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Clearing, grading, excavating, filling or other
alteration of the earth's surface where natural or human made ground cover is
destroyed and which may result in, or contribute to, erosion and sediment
pollution.
      STREAM. A surface watercourse with a well-defined bed and bank, either
natural or artificial, which confines and conducts continuous or periodical
flowing water in such a way that terrestrial vegetation cannot establish roots
within the channel.
      STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPP). The plan which describes
all the elements of the storm water strategy implemented during and after
construction. The plan addresses erosion control and storm water quality.
      STORM WATER QUALITY TREATMENT. The removal of pollutants from urban
runoff and improvement of water quality, accomplished largely by deposition and
utilizing the benefits of natural processes.
      VARIANCE. A modification of the enforcement of the riparian setback
section which will not be contrary to the public interest and where, due to
conditions peculiar to this property and not the result of the action of the
applicant, a literal enforcement of this section would result in undue hardship
to the applicant.
      WATER COURSE. A natural or artificial water way, such as a stream or
river, with a defined bed and channel and a definite direction of course that
is contained within, flows through, or borders the community.
      WATER SHED. An area of land that drains into a particular water course,
usually divided by typography.
      WETLANDS. Those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or
ground water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under
normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted
for life in saturated soil conditions, including swamps, marshes, bogs, and
similar areas.
   (E)   Establishment of a riparian setback.
      (1)   Riparian setbacks are established as provided in this section.
      (2)   Streams addressed by this section are those which meet the
definition of "stream" contained in this section and are indicated on at least
one of the following maps:
         (a)   USGS topographical map.
         (b)   Summit County Riparian Setback map.
         (c)   Soils maps located in the Soil Survey for Summit County, Ohio,
USDA, NRCS.
      (3)   Widths of setbacks are measured as horizontal map distance outward
from the ordinary high watermark on each side of a stream, and shall be minimum
of 50 feet on each side of all streams.
      (4)   The following are exempt from the terms and protection of this
section: grassy swales, roadside ditches, drainage ditches created at the time
of a subdivision to convey storm water to another system, tiled drainage
systems, and stream culverts.
      (5)   The following shall apply to the riparian setback:
         (a)   Where the 100-year flood plain is wider than the riparian
setback on either or both sides of the stream, the riparian setback shall be
extended to the outer edge of the 100-year flood plain. The 100-year flood
plain shall be defined by FEMA and approved by the village.
         (b)   Because the gradient of the riparian corridor significantly
influences impacts on the stream, the following adjustment for steep slopes
will be integrated into the riparian setback formulae for width determination:
 
Average Percent Slope        Width of Setback
15% through 20%              Add 15 feet
Greater than 20% through 25% Add 25 feet
Greater than 25%             Add 75 feet
 
            1.   Average percent slope of the stream bank is to be calculated
for the area within the riparian setback and is to be measured as a line
perpendicular to the stream channel at the location where structures or uses
are proposed in the plan. All of the following measurements are to be performed
using County of Summit Geographical Information system data (1994, 2000).
            2.   Calculate slope as follows: Change in elevation from the edge
of stream channel to edge of riparian setback divided by horizontal map
distance from the edge of stream channel to the edge of the riparian setback.
         (c)   Where wetlands protected under federal or state law are
identified within the riparian setback, the riparian setback shall consist of
the full extent of the wetlands plus the following additional setback widths:
            1.   A 20-foot setback extending beyond the outer boundary of
Category 3 wetlands.
            2.   A ten-foot setback extending beyond the outer boundary of a
Category 2 wetlands.
            3.   No additional setback will be required adjacent to Category 1
wetlands.
         (d)   Wetlands shall be delineated by a qualified professional under
guidelines established by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and Ohio
Environmental Protection Agency and the delineation approved by the appropriate
agencies. All wetland delineations shall also include the latest version of the
Ohio Rapid Assessment Method for wetland evaluation approved at the time of
application of the regulations.
         (e)   The applicants shall be responsible for delineating the riparian
setback, including any expansions or modifications as required by divisions (B)
through (E) of this section, and identifying this setback on all subdivisions,
land development plans, and/or building permit applications.
            1.   This delineation shall be done at the time of application of
the preliminary plans or all plans that are required, or at the time of
submission of any permit applications.
            2.   This delineation shall be subject to review and approval by
the village. The village reserves the right to consult other agencies familiar
with riparian issues. As the result of this review, the village may require
further studies from the applicant.
         (f)   Prior to any soil disturbing activity, the riparian setback
shall be clearly delineated with construction fencing or other suitable
material by the applicant on site, and such delineation shall be maintained
throughout soil disturbing activities. The delineated areas shall be maintained
in an undisturbed state unless otherwise permitted by these regulations. All
fencing shall be removed when a development project is completed.
         (g)   No approvals or permits shall be issued by the village prior to
delineation of the riparian setback in conformance with these regulations.
         (h)   Upon completion of an approved subdivision, the riparian setback
shall be permanently recorded on the plat records for the County of Summit.
   (F)   Uses permitted in the riparian setback.
      (1)   The following uses are permitted by right within the riparian
setbacks without prior approval. Open space uses that are passive in character
shall be permitted in the riparian setback including, but not limited to, those
listed in divisions (A)(1) through (A)(4) of this section. No use permitted
under these regulations shall be construed as allowing trespass on privately
held lands. Alteration of this natural area is strictly limited. Except and
otherwise provided in these regulations, the riparian setback shall be
preserved in its natural state.
         (a)   Recreational activity. Passive recreational uses, as permitted
by federal, state, and local laws, such as hiking, non-motorized bicycling,
fishing, hunting, picnicking and similar uses and associated structures
including boardwalks, pathways constructed of pervious material, picnic tables,
and wildlife viewing areas.
         (b)   Removal of damaged or diseased trees. Damaged or diseased trees
may be removed. Because of the potential for felled logs and branches to damage
downstream properties and/or block ditches or otherwise exacerbate flooding,
logs and branches resulting from the removal of damaged or diseased trees that
are greater than six inches in diameter, shall be anchored to the shore or
removed from the 100-year flood plain.
         (c)   Revegetation and/or reforestation. The revegetation and/or
reforestation of the riparian setback shall be allowed without approval of the
village. Species of shrubs and vines recommended for stabilizing flood prone
areas along streams within the village are listed in the Appendix.
         (d)   The County of Summit Engineer maintains the right of access to
all streams within the County of Summit for the purposes outlined in R.C. §§
6131.01 to 6131.64, 6133.01 to 6133.15, 6135.01 to 6135.27, and 6137.05.01. The
Summit County Soil and Water Conservation District maintains a right of access
to streams located within the village pursuant to R.C. § 6101.15. The village
has the right to maintain and remove obstructions from waterways located in the
municipality when the obstruction is prejudicial to the health, comfort, or
convenience of any citizens of the neighborhood pursuant to §
93.38 of this Code of Ordinances.
      (2)   The following uses are permitted by right within the riparian
setbacks with prior approval of the design by the village.
         (a)   Stream bank stabilization/erosion control measures. Best
Management Practices (BMP's) for stream bank stabilization or erosion control
may be allowed if such practices are within permitted uses by the local, state,
and federal government regulations and are ecologically compatible and
emphasize the use of natural materials and native plant species where practical
and available. Such stream bank stabilization/erosion control practices shall
only be undertaken upon approval of a storm water pollution prevention plan
(SWPP or SW3P) by the village.
         (b)   Crossings. In reviewing plans for stream crossings, the village
may confer with the Summit SWCD, the Ohio Department of Natural Resources,
Division of Natural Areas; the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency, Division
of Surface Water; the County of Summit Engineer; the Department of
Environmental Services of Summit County; the Summit County Health Department;
or other technical experts as necessary.
            1.   Limited crossing of designated streams through the riparian
setback by vehicles, storm sewers, sewer and/or water lines, and public utility
lines will be per the approval of local, county, and state governing agencies
and as a part of the regular subdivision review process.
            2.   One driveway crossing per stream per tax parcel will be
allowed for individual land owners.
            3.   Roadway crossing for major and minor subdivisions, open space
subdivisions, or any other non-single-family residential use shall be designed
and constructed as approved by the village. If more than two crossings per
1,000 linear feet of stream center are required for these areas, the applicant
must apply for a variance.
            4.   All roadway crossings shall be perpendicular to the stream
flow and shall minimize disturbance to the riparian setback and shall mitigate
any necessary disturbances.
         (c)   Placement of storm water retention or detention facilities may
be considered within the riparian setback if:
            1.   Storm water quality treatment that is consistent with current
state standards is incorporated into the basin.
            2.   The storm water quality treatment basin is located at least 50
feet from the ordinary high watermark of the stream.
   (G)   Uses prohibited in the riparian setback. The following uses are
specifically prohibited within the riparian setback:
      (1)   Construction. There shall be no structures of any kind except as
permitted under these regulations.
      (2)   Dredging or dumping. There shall be no drilling for petroleum or
mineral products, mining activity, filling or dredging of soil, spoils, or any
material – natural or man-made – except as permitted under these regulations.
      (3)   Roads or driveways. There shall be no roads or driveways, except as
permitted under these regulations.
      (4)   Motorized vehicles. There shall be no use of motorized vehicles of
any kind, except as permitted under these regulations.
      (5)   Modification of natural vegetations. Modification of the natural
vegetation shall be limited to conservation maintenance that the land owner
deems necessary to control noxious weeds; for such plantings as are consistent
with these regulations for such disturbances are approved under these
regulations; and for the passive enjoyment, access and maintenance of
landscaping or lawns existing at the time of passage of these regulations.
Nothing in this section shall be construed as requiring a land owner to plant
or undertake any other activities in the riparian setback provided the land
owner allows for natural succession.
      (6)   Parking lots. There shall be no parking lots or other human made
impervious cover except as permitted under these regulations.
      (7)   New surface and/or subsurface sewage disposal or treatment area.
Riparian setbacks shall not be used for the disposal or treatment of sewage
except for:
         (a)   Undeveloped parcels that have received site evaluation approval
and/or permit approval prior to the enactment of this section.
         (b)   Dwellings served by disposal/treatment systems existing at the
time of passage of these regulations when such systems are properly sited
(approved site evaluation) and permitted or in accordance with the Summit
County Health Department and/or the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency.
Existing failing systems which are located within the riparian setback can be
upgraded with approval of the Summit County Health Department and/or the Ohio
Environmental Protection Agency.
   (H)   Non-conforming structures or uses in the riparian setback.
      (1)   Structures and uses within the riparian setback, existing at the
time of passage of these regulations, that are not permitted under these
regulations may be continued but shall not be expanded without a variance.
      (2)   If damaged or destroyed, these structures or uses may be repaired
or restored within two years from the date of damage/destruction or the
adoption of these regulations, whichever is later, at the property owner's own
risk.
      (3)   A residential structure or use within the riparian setback existing
at the time of passage of these regulations may be expanded subject to the
provision of division (C)(1) through (C)(3) of this section.
         (a)   The expansion conforms to existing zoning regulations.
         (b)   The expansion must not impact the stream channel or the 100-year
flood plain.
         (c)   The expansion must not exceed an area of 15% of the footprint of
the existing structure or use that lies within the riparian setback. Expansions
exceeding 15% of the footprint within the riparian setback must be obtained
through the variance process.
      (4)   Non-residential structure or use expansions will be permitted only
through the variance process.
   (I)   Boundary interpretation and appeals procedure. An appeal disputing the
boundary of the riparian setback or the ordinary high watermark of a stream
shall be brought by the applicant before the Village of Mogadore Zoning Board
of Appeals and shall be governed by the provisions of §
152.125, provided, however, that the Engineer shall have 60 days from the date
of the appeal hearing to evaluate the evidence submitted by the applicant at
the appeal hearing and make a written recommendation to theZoning Board of
Appeals. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall then render a decision on the appeal
within 30 days of its receipt of the Engineer's written recommendation.
   (J)   Variances within riparian setback.
      (1)   Any request for a variance from the requirements of this section
shall be brought by the applicant before the Mogadore Zoning Board of Appeals.
The Village of Mogadore Zoning Board of Appeals may consult with
representatives from the Summit SWCD; the Ohio Department of Natural Resources,
Division of Natural Areas; the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency, Division
of Surface Water; the County of Summit Engineer; the Department of
Environmental Services of Summit County; the Summit County Health Department;
or other technical experts as necessary to consider variance requests.
      (2)   Expansions of residential structures or uses exceeding 15% of the
footprint area and expansions of all non-residential structures are subject to
division (B)(1) through (B)(4) of this section:
         (a)   The expansion conforms to the existing zoning regulations.
         (b)   The expansion must not impact the stream channel or the 100-year
flood plain.
         (c)   The expansion of a non-residential structure or use must not
affect upstream or downstream hydrologic conditions which could cause damage
from flooding or stream bank erosion to land owners in those areas. A
hydrologic study must be completed by non-residential applicants only as a
process of the variance application.
         (d)   The expansion of a nonresidential structure or use will not
exceed 25% of the footprint area. The 25% expansion limit is per the portion of
the structure or use that lies within the riparian setback.
      (3)   Requests for variances for subdivisions will be considered for the
following:
         (a)   An additional stream crossing or crossings for a subdivision or
open space development which is necessary for the health, welfare and safety of
the residents of the subdivision.
         (b)   A reduction of the setback width, not to exceed 10% of the
prescribed riparian setback width.
      (4)   No variances shall be granted for expansion of the following
structures or uses:
         (a)   Facilities which use, store, distribute, or sell petroleum-based
products or any hazardous materials. Such facilities include, but are not
limited to: asphalt plants, dry cleaners, gasoline service stations, and road
maintenance facilities.
         (b)   Facilities which use, store, distribute, or sell products which
may contribute higher than acceptable concentrations of dissolved or
particulate matter to storm water runoff around the facility. Such facilities
include, but are not limited to: landfills or transfer stations, junk yards,
recycling facilities, quarries and borrow pits, sand and gravel extraction
operations, and road salt storage barns.
      (5)   In reviewing whether to grant variances, the Village of Mogadore
Board of Zoning Appeals shall consider the following:
         (a)   The extent to which the requested variance impairs the functions
of the riparian area. This determination shall be based on sufficient technical
and scientific evidence as provided by the applicant and the agencies listed in
divisions (A) through (E) of this section.
         (b)   The soil type and natural vegetations of the parcel as well as
the percentage of the parcel that is in the 100-year flood plain.
         (c)   The degree of hardship these regulations place on the applicant
and the availability of alternatives to the proposed activity.
   (K)   Inspection of riparian setback.
      (1)   The riparian setback shall be inspected by the village or the
Summit SWCD:
         (a)   When preliminary subdivision plat or other land development plan
is submitted to the village or the County of Summit.
         (b)   When a building or zoning permit is requested.
         (c)   Prior to any solid disturbing activity to inspect the
delineation of the riparian setback as required under these regulations.
      (2)   The riparian setback shall also be inspected annually or as time
permits by the village or the Summit SWCD for compliance with any approvals
under these regulations or at any time evidence is brought to the attention of
the village that uses or structures are occurring that may reasonably be
expected to violate the provisions of these regulations.
APPENDIX
WOODY PLANTS SUITABLE FOR RIPARIAN AREAS
Flood Tolerance*                     Shade       Common
High Flood Tolerance                 Tolerance** Name
Aronia         arbutifolia           3           Red chokeberry
Aronia         melanocarrpa          3           Black chokeberry
Cephalanthus   occidentalis          5           Common buttonbush
Clethra        alnifolia             2           Summerweet clethera***
Cornus         amomum                4           Silky dogwood
Cornus         stolonifera (sericea) 5           Redoiser dogwood
Hamamelis      vernalis              3           Vernal witchhazel***
Ilex           deciduas              3           Possumhaw***
Ilex           glabra                2           Inkbery***
Ilex           verticilata           3           Common winterberry
Itea           virginica             1           Virginia sweetspire***
Magnolia       virginiana            2           Sweetbay magnolia***
Myrica         pensylvanica          4           Northern bayberry
Physocarpus    opulifolius           4           Common ninebark
Potentilla     fruticosa             4           Bush cinquefoil
Sambucus       canadensis            1           American elderberry
Salix          x cotteti             5           "Bankers" willow***
Salix          exigua                5           Sandbar willow
Viburnum       cassinoides           2           Witherod viburnum
Parthenocissus quinquefolia          1           Virginia creeper (vine)
 
Flood Tolerance*             Shade       Common
High Flood Tolerance         Tolerance** Name
Moderate Flood Tolerance*
Calycanthus    floridus      1           Common sweetshrub
Hypericum      kalamianum    5           Kalm St. Johnswort
Viburnum       dentatum      2           Arrowwood viburnum
Xanthorhiza    simplicissima 1           Yellowroot***
Intermediate Flood Tolerance*
Aesculus       parviflora    2           Bottlebush buckeye***
Aesculus       pavia         2           Red buckeye***
Cornus         racemosa      2           Gray dogwood
Lindera        benzoin       1           Common spicebush
Rosa           setigera      4           Prairie rose
Campsis        radicans      3           Trumpetcreeper (vine)
Lonicera       dioica        2           Limber honeysuckle (vine)
Corylus        amencana      2           American filbert
Diervilla      lonicera      1           Dwarf brushoneysuckle
Fothergilla    gardeni       1           Dwarf fothergilla***
Fothergilla    major         1           Large fothergilla***
Hydrangea      arborescens   1           Smooth hydrangea
Hydrangea      quericifolia  1           Oakleaf hydrangea***
Mahonia        aquifolium    1           Oregon grape holly***
Rosa           carolina      4           Carolina rose
Rubus          odoratus      1           Fragrant thimbleberry
Vaccinium      stamineum     2           Common deerberry
Arctostaphylos uva-ursi      4           Bearberry
Cornus         rogusa        1           Roundleaf dogwood
Corylus        americana     2           American filbert
Diervilla      lonicera      1           Dwarf bushhhoneysuckle
Fothergilla    gardeni       1           Dwarf fothergilla***
Fothergilla    major         1           Large fothergilla***
Hydrangea      arborescens   1           Smooth hydrangea
Hydrangea      quericifolia  1           Oakleaf hydrangea***
Mahonia        aquifolium    1           Oregon grape holly***
Rosa           carolina      4           Carolina rose
Rubus          odoratus      1           Fragrant thimbleberry
Symphoricarpos albus         1           Common snowberry
Vaccinium      stamineum     2           Common deerberry
No Flood Tolerance
Amorpha        canescens     5           Leadplant***
Ceanothus      americanus    3           New Jersey tea
Comptonia      peregrina     2           Sweetfern
Dirca          palustris     1           Leatherwood
Hypericum      frondosum     5           Golden St. Johnswort
Juniperus      communis      5           Common juniper
Juniperus      horizontalis  5           Creeping juniper***
Rhus           aromatica     5           Fragrant sumac
Sambucus       pubens        1           Scarlet elder
Symphoricarpos albus         1           Common snowberry
 
   * High Flood Tolerance: Generally low land wet species surviving when
flooded or exposed to high water table more than 40% of the growing season.
   * Moderate Flood Tolerance: Generally low land wet species surviving when
flooded or exposed to high table more than 30% of the growing season but less
than 40%.
   * Intermediate Flood Tolerance: Generally low land wet-mesic species
surviving occasional inundation or elevated water table between 20% and 30% of
the growing season.
   * No Flood Tolerance: Generally upland dry species exhibiting immediate and
rapid decline frequently culminating in death if inundated or exposed to
elevated water table for more than 5% of the growing season.
   ** Shade Tolerance: Shade tolerance means able to grow in a state of health
and vigor beneath dense shade. In this ranking, shrubs and vines are ranked on
a scale of 1 to 5, with 1 being very shade tolerant, and 5 being very shade
intolerant.
   Note:
   1.   The majority of plants listed are available on the local commercial
market and do not displace native species.
   2.   The cultivated varieties ("cultivars") of the species listed above may
also be used.
   3.   Primary information taken from Hightshoe, Gary, 1987. Native Trees,
Shrubs, and Vines for Urban and Rural America. Van Nostrand NY, NY.
   4.   For further assistance contact Roger Gettig, Landscape Consulting
Program, The Holden Arvoretum, or Steve Roloson, ODNT Scenic Rivers Program.
(A.O.)
   *** Denotes plant species that are not native to Ohio.
(Ord. 2004-133, passed 3-15-04; Am. Ord. 11-2007, passed 3-8-07; Am. Ord. 2018-
80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 152.034 SALE OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   The selling of used or previously owned vehicles from commercial
property is permitted but subject to the following restrictions:
      (1)   The total number of vehicles for sale during any 12 month period is
limited to two.
      (2)   A single vehicle for sale may be displayed for a maximum,
continuous two-week period.
      (3)   Vehicles for sale shall be properly licensed and operable.
      (4)   Vehicles for sale must be titled to the current leaseholder or
landowner of the property upon which the vehicle is displayed.
      (5)   No such vehicle shall be stored within three feet of any village
right-of-way.
      (6)   Display of such vehicles is also subject to all other provisions of
these codified ordinances.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   The sale of vehicles by motor vehicle dealers, as governed by Ohio
Revised Code Chapter 4517; or
      (2)   Vehicles that are present on the property because the owner or
lessee of the vehicle works at or has business at the premises and the vehicle
is removed therefrom daily.
(Res. 2019-60, passed 6-19-19; Am. Ord. 2019-63, passed 8-21-19)
§ 152.035 CONSTRUCTION AND RUBBISH DUMPSTERS.
   (A)   Permit required. No construction dumpster shall be constructed,
erected or placed upon any residential property, to remain thereon for a period
exceeding three days, without first obtaining a permit from the Zoning
Inspector.
   (B)   Permit fee. The fee for a construction dumpster permit shall be $15.
   (C)   Application requirements. Applications for a construction dumpster
permit shall be in writing on forms provided by the Zoning Inspector and shall
state the following:
      (1)   Description of the need/purpose for construction dumpster;
      (2)   Name and address of the owner of the property;
      (3)   Written permission from an owner to place the construction dumpster
on the property;
      (4)   Name and address of the applicant (if different than the owner);
      (5)   Description of the construction dumpster, including provider,
capacity and dimensions; and
      (6)   A site plan showing the location of the construction dumpster; said
site plan must be submitted to and approved by the Zoning Inspector or
designee.
   (D)   Construction dumpsters. All construction dumpsters must comply with
the following:
      (1)   A construction dumpster permit shall be valid for a period of 30
days.
      (2)   The permit shall authorize the construction, erection, or placement
of a construction dumpster on the property described in the application. If an
occupancy permit is required for a residential project, the construction
dumpster must be removed before the issuance of the occupancy permit.
      (3)   While multiple dumpsters can be utilized during the 30-day permit
period, only one construction dumpster shall be allowed on a lot at any one
time.
      (4)   Construction dumpsters must be located on a paved area unless
located on a residential construction project where a driveway is not yet
installed, in which case the construction dumpster shall be located in the
proposed driveway location.
      (5)   Construction dumpsters shall be located entirely on the owner's lot
as close to the residence as possible, not blocking any site lines.
      (6)   No part of any construction dumpster shall be located on any public
property or in the public right-of-way.
      (7)   Any construction dumpster constructed, erected or placed upon
property shall comply with all applicable provisions of the zoning code.
      (8)   The Zoning Inspector is granted authority to require immediate
removal of a construction dumpster if it is determined that the construction
dumpster is no longer needed at the site or if the construction dumpster is
filled to capacity.
   (E)   Rubbish dumpsters. No rubbish dumpster shall be permitted on any
residential property within the R-l or R-2 Residential districts.
(Res. 2019-61, passed 6-19-19; Am. Ord. 2019-62, passed 8-21-19)
§ 152.036 DUMPSTER BAGS.
   (A)   Dumpster bags shall not to be allowed to remain outdoors on any
private or public property, or public right of way, for more than 30 days.
   (B)   No more than two dumpster bags shall be allowed outdoors on any
private or public property, or public right of way, at any given time.
(Res. 2019-61, passed 6-19-19; Am. Ord. 2019-62, passed 8-21-19)
§ 152.037 EXTERIOR LIGHTING.
   In addition to §
150.218 concerning the lighting and illumination of signs and billboards, §
152.024 concerning off-street parking, and §
152.047 concerning car lots in C-1 Commercial Districts, all external lighting
in all districts shall comply with the following:
   (A)   All external lighting used to light the general area of a specific
portion or property shall be shielded to reduce glare and shall be so arranged
as to reflect lights away from, and shield glare from, and not shine directly
upon, all adjacent residential districts, adjacent residences, and adjacent
streets and public right-of-ways.
   (B)   All external lighting, other than lighting for the illumination of
buildings or lighting and illumination of signs and billboards, shall be
directed toward and confined to the ground areas of lawns or parking lots on
the property where the lighting is located.
   (C)   All lighting used for the external illumination of buildings, so as to
feature such buildings, shall be placed and shielded so as not to interfere
with the vision of persons on adjacent property or adjacent streets and public
right-of-ways.
   (D)   All lighting or illumination of signs and billboards shall comply with
§
150.218 of these Codified Ordinances.
(Ord. 2023-48, passed 7-19-23)
DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 152.045 R-1 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Uses permitted. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no
building or premises in the R-1 Residential District shall hereafter be
erected, altered, used, arranged, or designed to be used in whole or in part
for any other purpose or in any other manner than as follows:
      (1)   One-family dwellings,
      (2)   Farming or gardening,
      (3)   Signs as regulated under §
150.218.
      (4)   Customary home occupations as regulated under §
152.028.
   (B)   Conditionally suggested uses. Council may issue conditional zoning
certificates for uses listed herein subject to the general requirements of §§
152.110 through
152.114 and to the specific requirements of division (D) of this section:
      (1)   Churches and other buildings for the purpose of religious worship
subject to §
152.113(A), (C), (G), (H), (K), and (L).
      (2)   Cemetery subject to §
152.113(C), (G), and (Q).
      (3)   Public and parochial schools, subject to §
152.113(A), (B), (C), (D), (E), (F), and (K).
      (4)   Institutions for higher education subject to §
152.113(A), (B), (C), (D), (I), (G), and (K).
      (5)   Institutions of human medical care – hospitals, clinics,
sanitariums, convalescent homes, nursing homes, homes for the aged and
philanthropic institutions subject to §
152.113(A), (B), (C), (E), (I), (K), and (M).
      (6)   Governmentally owned and operated buildings or facilities subject
to §
152.113(C), (G), (H), and (K).
      (7)   Public utility rights-of-way and pertinent structures subject to §
152.113(A) and (J).
      (8)   Two-family dwellings subject to §
152.113(Y).
      (9)   Temporary buildings and uses incidental to construction work
subject to §
152.113 (M) and (P).
      (10)   Governmentally owned and/or operated parks and playgrounds subject
to §
152.113(A), (B), (C), (D), (E), (K), and (M).
      (11)   Governmentally or privately owned and/or operated picnic areas,
playgrounds, private parks, swimming facilities, golf courses, tennis clubs,
country clubs, riding academies, and other similar recreational uses. Uses
permitted under this category shall be subject to §
152.113(A), (B), (C), (D), (M), (S), (T), (V) and (W).
   (C)   Height. No dwelling shall exceed 25 feet or two stories in height.
Other permitted structures, except accessory structures, may be built to a
greater height provided any such structure sets back from every street and lot
line one foot for each foot of height of the structure in excess of 25 feet, in
addition to the other yard and setback requirement therein specified.
   (D)   Front yard. There shall be a front yard not less than 50 feet in
depth; except that where there are four or more existing structures in the same
block on the same side of the street as the proposed structures, the Building
and Zoning Inspector or Clerk-Treasurer shall change the depth of the front
yard to that of the existing buildings.
   (E)   Setback requirements for corner lots.
      (1)   For a conventional corner lot (see Types of Lots in Appendix), i.e.
narrow and deep, with the proposed structure fronting the shorter property
line, the setback shall be 50 feet measured from the shorter front lot line.
The setback requirement on the second street shall be 40% (20 feet) of the
normal setback and shall be measured from the longer lot line.
      (2)   For a reversed corner lot (see Types of Lots in Appendix), i.e.
wherein the proposed structure fronts the longer of the two property lines, the
setback requirement for the front yard shall be 60% (30 feet) of the normal
setback. The setback on the second street shall be 50 feet; except that where
there are four or more existing structures in the same block on the same side
of the street as the side yard of the proposed structure, the Building and
Zoning Inspector or the Clerk-Treasurer shall change the setback on the side
yard to match the front yards of the existing structures.
   (F)   Side yards. There shall be a side yard not less than ten feet in width
on each side of the principal building.
   (G)   Rear yards. There shall be a rear yard on every lot which rear yard
shall have a minimum depth of not less than ten feet.
   (H)   Lot area. The minimum lot area shall not be less than 10,000 square
feet.
   (I)   Lot width. The minimum lot width shall be 75 feet as measured along
the street right-of-way line on a dedicated street with centralized sewer and
120 feet without centralized sewer. In the case of a curved street, the 75 or
120 feet shall be measured at the front yard setback.
   (J)   Minimum size of dwellings. Every new dwelling or residence shall have
a full basement and shall have floor space designed and used for living
quarters, exclusive of porches, garages, breezeways or terraces as follows:
      (1)   For residences or manufactured homes with living space located
entirely on one floor, the minimum living area shall be 1,200 square feet. For
purposes of this section, the term MANUFACTURED HOME means any non-self-
propelled vehicle or structure transportable in one or more sections which, in
the traveling mode, is eight body feet in width and 40 body feet or more in
length and which, whether built on a permanent chassis or not, is designed to
be used as a dwelling. Manufactured homes must meet all the requirements of
Residential Districts.
      (2)   For two-story or story and one-half dwellings or residences, the
minimum area shall be 1,200 square feet with at least 750 square feet on the
first floor.
      (3)   For additions to existing structures, no basement is necessary.
   (K)   Off-street parking. There shall be two off-street parking spaces for
each family unit, each containing no less than 200 square feet of area, with
width of ten feet and a length of 20 feet.
(Ord. passed 12-11-90; Am. Ord. 48-1992, passed 7-15-92; Am. Ord. 45, passed
11-20-96; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.046 R-2 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Uses permitted. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no
building or premises in the R-2 Residential District shall hereafter be
erected, used, arranged, or designed to be used in whole or in part for any
other purpose or in any other manner than as follow:
      (1)   All uses permitted in R-1 Residential District,
      (2)   Two-family dwellings,
      (3)   Signs as regulated by §
150.218.
      (4)   Customary house occupations as regulated by §
152.028.
   (B)   Conditionally suggested uses. Council may issue conditional zoning
certificates for uses listed herein subject to the general requirements of §§
152.110 through
152.114 and the specific requirements of §
152.113 referred to below:
      (1)   Churches and other buildings for the purpose of religious worship
subject to §
152.113(A), (C), (G), (K), (L), and (M).
      (2)   Cemetery subject to §
152.113(C), (G) and (Q).
      (3)   Public and parochial schools subject to §
152.113(A), (B), (C), (E), (F), and (K).
      (4)   Institutions for higher education subject to §
152.113(A), (B), (C), (D), (E), (G), and (K).
      (5)   Institutions for human care - hospitals, clinics, sanitariums,
convalescent homes, nursing homes, child day care centers, homes for the aged,
and philanthropic institutions subject to §
152.113(A), (B), (C), (E), (G), (I), (K), and (M).
      (6)   Governmentally owned and/or operated buildings or facilities
subject to §
152.113(C), (G), (H), and (K).
      (7)   Governmentally owned parks and/or playgrounds, subject to §
152.113(A), (B), (C), (D), (E), (K), and (M).
      (8)   Quasi-public, institutionally, or organizationally owned and/or
operated recreational, instructional and meeting facilities, such as those
developed and used by the Y.M.C.A., Y.W.C.A., Boy Scouts, or various fraternal
or community service groups subject to §
152.113(I), (K), (M), and (W).
      (9)   Lodging and boarding house accommodations subject to §
152.113(K), (M), and (N).
      (10)   Public utility rights-of-way and pertinent structures subject to §
152.113(A) and (J).
      (11)   Temporary buildings and uses incidental to construction work
subject to §
152.113(M) and (P).
   (C)   Height. No dwelling shall exceed 25 feet or two stories in height.
Other permitted buildings, except accessory buildings, may be built to a
greater height provided any such building sets back from
every street and lot line one foot for each foot of height of the building in
excess of 25 feet, in addition to the other yard and setback requirements
herein specified.
   (D)   Front yard. There shall be a front yard not less than 30 feet in depth
except that where there are four or more existing structures in the same block
and on the same side of the street as the proposed structure, the Building and
Zoning Inspector or Clerk-Treasurer shall reduce the depth of the front yard to
the average depth of the front yards of the existing buildings. On a corner lot
the front yard requirements shall be observed on both streets.
   (E)   Side yards. There shall be a side yard not less than ten feet in width
on each side of the principal dwelling for one-family dwellings and 15 feet in
width on each side of the principal dwelling for two-family dwellings.
   (F)   Rear yards. There shall be a rear yard on every lot which rear yard
shall have a minimum depth of not less than ten feet.
   (G)   Minimum lot areas. The minimum lot areas shall not be less than as
follows:
      (1)   One-family dwelling - 10,000 square feet.
      (2)   Two-family dwelling - 15,000 square feet.
   (H)   Minimum lot widths.
      (1)   One-family dwelling - the minimum lot width shall be 75 feet.
      (2)   Two-family dwelling - the minimum lot width shall be 120 feet.
   (I)   Minimum living areas.
      (1)   One-family - 1,050 square feet in accordance with §
152.045(K).
      (2)   Two-family - 1,500 square feet total.
      (3)   Multi-family:
         (a)   Efficiency suite - 500 square feet per unit.
         (b)   One-bedroom apartment - 650 square feet per unit.
         (c)   Two-bedroom apartment - 800 square feet per unit.
         (d)   Three-bedroom apartment - 1,050 square feet per unit.
         (e)   Four or more-bedroom apartment - 1,300 square feet per unit.
   (J)   Site plan review. All multi-family uses permitted under division (I)
of this section shall be permitted only after the review and approval of the
site plans by the Planning Commission and upon finding by the Planning
Commission that the following general requirements will be met. In the interest
of the community and surrounding development, the Planning Commission may seek
expert advice and recommendations as to whether a proposed multi-family project
will meet the requirements listed below. The cost of securing such expert
assistance shall be borne by the applicant.
      (1)   The site plan shows that a proper relationship does exist between
thoroughfares, service roads, driveways, and parking areas to encourage
pedestrian and vehicular traffic safety.
      (2)   All the development features including the principal buildings,
open spaces, service roads, driveways, and parking areas are so located and
related as to minimize the possibility of any adverse effects upon adjacent
development.
      (3)   The site plan includes adequate provision for the screening of
parking areas and active recreation areas from surrounding properties by
landscaping and/or ornamental wall or fence.
      (4)   The nature and material requirements for grading and surface
drainage shall be determined and approved by the Village Engineer.
      (5)   The design and construction standards of all private streets,
driveways, and parking areas are to be built following approval of plans by the
Village Engineer.
      (6)   Maximum possible privacy for each apartment shall be provided
through good design and use of proper building materials and landscaping.
Visual privacy should be provided through structural screening and landscaping
treatment. Auditory privacy should be provided through soundproofing.
      (7)   The architectural design of apartment buildings should be developed
with consideration given to the relationship of adjacent development in terms
of building height, mass, texture, line and pattern and character.
      (8)   Building location and placement should be developed with
consideration given to minimizing removal of trees and change of topography.
      (9)   Television and other antennas shall be centralized.
      (10)   On-site circulation shall be designed to make possible adequate
fire and police protection.
      (11)   In large parking areas, visual relief shall be provided through
the use of trees planted and landscaped dividers, islands, and walkways. No
parking or service areas shall be permitted between any street the main
building.
      (12)   Paved off-street parking and service areas shall be required;
parking spaces shall contain at least 200 square feet being 10' x 20' and two
spaces per dwelling unit in each apartment building; and paved vehicular access
drives of at least ten feet in width shall be required for parking areas of ten
vehicles or less capacity, and two-way drives of 20 feet paving width minimum
shall be required for parking areas of one or more vehicle capacity.
      (13)   The use, placement and dimensions of all buildings, driveways,
sidewalks, parking areas, curb cuts, recreation areas, and the installation of
landscaping, fences and walks shall conform to the approved site plan.
(Ord. passed 12-11-90; Am. Ord. 12, passed 4-5-00; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-
20-18) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.0461 R-3 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Uses permitted. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no
building or premises in the R-3 Residential District shall hereafter be
erected, altered, used, arranged or designed to be used in whole or in part for
any other purpose or in any other manner than as follows:
      (1)   All uses permitted in R-2 Residential District.
      (2)   Multi-family dwellings.
      (3)   Signs as regulated by §
150.218.
      (4)   Customary house occupations as regulated by §
152.028.
   (B)   Conditionally suggested uses. Council may issue conditional zoning
certificates for uses listed herein subject to the general requirements of §§
152.110 through
152.114 and the specific requirements of §
152.113 referred to below:
      (1)   Churches and other buildings for the purpose of religious worship
subject to §
152.113(A), (C), (G), (K), (L), and (M).
      (2)   Cemetery subject to §
152.113(C), (G), and (Q).
      (3)   Public and parochial schools subject to §
152.113(A), (B), (C), (E), (F), and (K).
      (4)   Institutions for higher education subject to §
152.113(A), (B), (C), (E), (F), and (K).
      (5)   Institutions for human care - hospitals, clinics, sanitariums,
convalescent homes, nursing homes, child day care centers, homes for the aged
and philanthropic institutions subject to §
152.113 (A), (B), (C), (E), (G), (I), (K), and (M).
      (6)   Governmentally owned and/or operated buildings or facilities
subject to §
152.113(A), (B), (C), (D), (E), (K), and (M).
      (7)   Governmentally owned parks and/or playgrounds subject to §
152.113(A), (B), (C), (D), (E), (K), and (M).
      (8)   Quasi-public, institutionally, or organizationally owned and/or
operated recreational, instructional, and meeting facilities, such as those
developed and used by the Y.M.C.A., Y.W.C.A., Boy Scouts, or various fraternal
or community service groups, subject to §
152.113(I), (K), (M), and (W).
      (9)   Lodging and boarding house accommodations subject to §
152.113(K), (M), and (N).
      (10)   Public utility rights-of-way and pertinent structures subject to §
152.113(A) and (J).
      (11)   Temporary buildings and uses incidental to construction work
subject to §
152.113(M) and (P).
   (C)   Height. No dwelling shall exceed 25 feet or two stories in height.
Other permitted buildings, except accessory buildings, may be built to a
greater height provided any such building sets back from every street and lot
line one foot for each foot of height of the building in excess of 25 feet in
addition to the other yard and setback requirements herein specified.
   (D)   Front yard. There shall be a front yard not less than 30 feet in depth
except that where there are four or more existing structures in the same block
and on the same side of the street as the proposed structure, the Building and
Zoning Inspector or Clerk-Treasurer shall reduce the depth of the front yard to
the average depth of the front yards of the existing buildings. On a corner lot
the front yard requirements shall be observed on both streets.
   (E)   Side yards. There shall be a side yard not less than 15 feet in width
on each side of the principal dwelling for multi-family dwellings.
   (F)   Rear yards. There shall be a rear yard on every lot which rear yard
shall have a minimum depth of not less than ten feet.
   (G)   Minimum lot areas. The minimum lot areas shall not be less than as
follows: Multi-family dwelling - 18,000 square feet for the first three units
and 2,500 square feet for each additional one bedroom or efficiency unit, or
3,500 square feet for each additional two-bedroom unit, or 5,000 square feet
for each additional three or more-bedroom unit.
   (H)   Minimum lot widths. Multi-family dwelling - The minimum lot width
shall be 150 feet.
   (I)   Minimum living areas. Multi-family:
      (1)   Efficiency suite - 500 square feet per unit.
      (2)   One-bedroom apartment - 650 square feet per unit.
      (3)   Two-bedroom apartment - 800 square feet per unit.
      (4)   Three-bedroom apartment - 1,050 square feet per unit.
      (5)   Four or more-bedroom apartment - 1,300 square feet per unit.
   (J)   Site plan review. All multi-family uses permitted under division (I)
of this section shall be permitted only after the review and approval of the
site plans by the Planning Commission and upon findings by the Planning
Commission that the following general requirements will be met. In the
interests of the community and surrounding development, the Planning Commission
may seek expert advice and recommendations as to whether proposed multi-family
project will meet the requirements listed below. The cost of securing such
expert assistance shall be borne by the applicant.
      (1)   The site plan shows that a proper relationship does exist between
thoroughfares, service roads, driveways, and parking areas to encourage
pedestrian and vehicular traffic safety.
      (2)   All the development features including the principal buildings,
open spaces, service roads, driveways, and parking areas are so located and
related as to minimize the possibility of any adverse effects upon adjacent
development.
      (3)   The site plan includes adequate provision for the screening of
parking areas and active recreation areas, from surrounding properties by
landscaping and/or ornamental wall or fence.
      (4)   The nature and material requirements for grading and surface
drainage shall be determined and approved by the Village Engineer.
      (5)   The design and construction standards of all private streets,
driveways, and parking areas are to be built following approval of plans by the
Village Engineer.
      (6)   Maximum possible privacy for each apartment shall be provided
through structural screening and landscaping treatment. Auditory privacy should
be provided through sound proofing.
      (7)   The architectural design of apartment buildings should be developed
with consideration given to the relationship of adjacent development in terms
of building height, mass, texture, line, and pattern and character.
      (8)   Building location and placement should be developed with
consideration given to minimize removal of trees, and change of topography.
(Ord. 12, passed 4-5-00; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 152.047 C-1 COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Uses permitted. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no
building or premises in C-1 Commercial District shall hereafter be erected,
altered, used, arranged, or designed to be used, in whole or in part, for any
other purposes or in any other manner than as follows:
      (1)   The retail sale or handling of food and beverages of all kinds,
including sale for consumption on the premises.
      (2)   The retail sale of general merchandise, including department
stores.
      (3)   Professional and personal services.
      (4)   Office buildings and banks.
      (5)   Appliance repair shops.
      (6)   Custom tailors, laundry or dry cleaning, collection offices, self-
service laundries, hand laundries, and shoe repair shops.
      (7)   Dry cleaning, pressing, or tailoring in which non-toxic, non-
explosive, and non-inflammable solvents are used and no work is done on the
premises for retail outlets elsewhere.
      (8)   Car lots in compliance with Ohio Revised Code Chapter 4517,
entitled “Motor Vehicle Dealers, Auction Owners, and Sales Persons,” as
amended, and public garages, provided that no lighting there shall constitute a
nuisance or in any way impair safe movement of traffic on any street or highway
and that such developments shall be located on major thoroughfares or at
intersections of major and/or collector thoroughfares.
      (9)   Newspapers and print shops.
      (10)   Advertising signs that are limited to advertising the goods sold
or services rendered on the premises and which further comply with §
150.218.
      (11)   Amusement and recreation: assembly hall, bowling alley, dance
hall, pool and billiards, theater, card room, or other social or recreation
center, provided the place or building in which same is located is sufficiently
soundproofed so as not to constitute a nuisance or imposition upon adjacent
premises users or the public generally.
      (12)   Schools, libraries, museums, community centers, government
buildings, and places of worship.
      (13)   Any use commonly and necessarily incident to a use authorized by
this section.
      (14)   Parking as regulated by §
152.024.
      (15)   All uses permitted in R-1, R-2, and R-3 Districts.
   (B)   Conditionally suggested uses. The Council may issue conditional zoning
certificates for uses listed herein, subject to the general requirements of §§
152.110 through
152.114 and to the specific requirements of §
152.113 referred to below:
      (1)   Churches and other buildings for the purpose of religious worship
subject to §
152.113(C), (G), and (I).
      (2)   Governmentally owned and/or operated buildings and facilities
subject to §
152.113(C) and (G).
      (3)   Planned, integrated commercial developments subject to §
152.113(U).
      (4)   Clubs, lodges, fraternal charitable or social organizations subject
to §
152.113(C), (D), and (E).
      (5)   Drive-in banking facilities subject to §
152.113(C).
      (6)   Gasoline service (filling) stations, subject to division (A)(8) of
this section and §
152.113(G), (O), (Q), and (X).
      (7)   Auto laundry subject to §
152.113(C), (E), (G), (O), (R), (U), and (Z).
      (8)   Public utility rights-of-way and pertinent structures subject to §
152.113(J).
      (9)   Temporary buildings and uses incidental to construction work
subject to §
152.113(M) and (P).
   (C)   Height. No structure shall exceed 45 feet in height unless approved by
the Municipal Fire Department and certified by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (D)   Front yard. Every structure shall have a front yard of no less than 30
feet in depth. On corner lots the front yard requirements shall be observed on
both streets.
   (E)   Side yard. Every structure shall have a side yard of no less than ten
feet in width on each side; except that where this structure is part of an
integral complex, the Zoning Board of Appeals may eliminate this requirement.
   (F)   Minimum rear yard depth. Forty feet except that no rear yard shall be
required where the business use abuts on a public parking area specifically
intended to serve the particular business use and other commercial
establishments abutting on the parking area.
   (G)   Loading and unloading space. Every structure shall be provided with
adequate space for the loading and unloading of trucks and other vehicles
serving proposed structure, provided, however, that the Board of Zoning Appeals
may modify or waive this requirement were such space is not needed.
   (H)   Off-street parking. Off-street parking facilities shall be provided in
accordance with §
152.024.
   (I)   Site plan review and conformance. All business uses specified under
divisions (A) and (B) of this section shall be permitted only after the review
and approval of the site plans by the Planning Commission and upon finding, by
the Commission, that the specific standards set forth in this section and the
requirements of §§
152.015 through
152.029, and §
150.218 with the exception of §
152.017(C), will be met.
(Ord. passed 12-11-90; Am. Ord. 12, passed 4-5-00; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-
20-18; Am. Res. 2019-60, passed 6-19-19; Am. Ord. 2019-63, passed 8-21-19)
Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.048 CB CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the CB Central Business District is to provide
for the planned and integrated grouping of commercial land uses; especially
retail sales, services, and professional offices which incorporate innovative
site plan designs and techniques which take the full economic advantage of the
existing site while maintaining an overall compatibility with the Mogadore
downtown marketing area.
   (B)   Application. Where there are differences between the regulations
contained in this section and regulation occurring in the other sections of
this chapter, the regulations contained in this section shall apply.
   (C)   Uses permitted. All permitted uses specified in the C-1 Commercial
District.
   (D)   Conditionally suggested uses. All conditionally permitted uses in the
C-1 Commercial District. The Council may issue conditional zoning certificates
for uses listed therein, subject to the general requirements of §§
152.110 through
152.114 and to the specified requirements of §
152.113.
   (E)   Maximum building height. No structure shall exceed 45 feet in height
unless approved by the Municipal Fire Department and certified by the Board of
Zoning Appeals.
   (F)   Lot requirements:
      (1)   Minimum lot area: none.
      (2)   Minimum lot width at building line: none.
      (3)   Minimum lot frontage: none.
   (G)   Yard requirements:
      (1)   Minimum front yard depth: none.
      (2)   Minimum lot width at building line: none.
      (3)   Minimum side yard width: none.
      (4)   Front yard and side yard requirement adjacent to residential
districts: The minimum front yard depth and side yard width abutting a
residential district shall not be less than the yard requirement of the said
residential district.
   (H)   Loading and unloading space. Every structure shall be provided with
adequate space for the loading and unloading of trucks and other vehicles
serving proposed structure, provided, however, that the Board of Zoning Appeals
may modify or waive this requirement where such space is not needed.
   (I)   Off-street parking. Off-street parking facilities shall be provided in
accordance with §
152.024.
   (J)   Site plan review and conformance. All business uses specified under
divisions (C) and (D) of this section shall be permitted only after the review
and approval of the site plans by the Planning Commission and upon finding, by
the Commission, that the specific standards set forth in this section and the
requirements of §§
152.015 through
152.029 and §
150.218, with the exception of §
152.017(C), will be met.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall act to protect and preserve the
value, appearance and use of property on which buildings are constructed or
altered within the Central Business District, to maintain a high character of
community development, to protect the public health, safety and convenience and
welfare and to protect real estate within such district from impairment or
destruction of value. Such purposes shall be accomplished by the Commission by
reasonably regulating, within the district and in accordance with accepted and
recognized architectural principals; the design, use of materials, finished
grade lines, dimensions, orientations and location of all main and accessory
buildings to be created, moved, altered, remodeled or repaired, subject to the
provisions of all applicable zoning and building codes and other applicable
ordinances of the village. In reviewing, regulating and approving building
plans, the Commission shall consider and take cognizance of the development of
adjacent, contiguous and neighboring buildings and properties for the purpose
of achieving safe, harmonious and integrated development of related properties.
(Ord. passed 12-11-90; Am. Ord. 12, passed 4-15-98; Am. Ord. 2010-68, passed 1-
17-10; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.049 I-1 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Uses permitted. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no
building or premises in the I-1 Industrial District shall hereafter be erected,
altered, used, arranged or designed to be used, in whole or in part, for any
other purpose or in any other manner than as follows:
      (1)   The retail sale or handling of food and beverages of all kinds,
including sale for consumption on the premises.
      (2)   Office buildings and laboratories, provided that no operation shall
be conducted or equipment used which would create hazards, noxious or offensive
conditions.
      (3)   Laundry and dry-cleaning plants, provided that no operation shall
be conducted closer than 100 feet to any R-District.
      (4)   Repair shops.
      (5)   Public garages, or service stations, or lots or garages for the
sale and repair of new or used motor vehicles.
      (6)   The manufacture, compounding, assembly or treatment or articles or
merchandise from the following previously prepared materials: Aluminum, bone,
cellophane, canvas, cloth, cork, feathers, felt, fiber, fur, glass, hair, horn,
leather, paper, plastic, precious or semi-precious metals or stones, shell,
rubber, tin tobacco, wood (excluding saw mills), tars and paint not involving a
boiling process.
      (7)   The manufacture, compounding, processing, packing, or treatment of
such products as candy, cosmetics, drugs, perfumes, pharmaceuticals,
toiletries, and food products except the rendering or refining of fat and oils.
      (8)   The manufacture of pottery or figurines or other similar ceramic
products, using only previously pulverized clay, and kilns fired only by
electricity or gas.
      (9)   Foundry casting light-weight metals and not causing noxious fumes
or odor.
      (10)   Lumber yards for retail lumber sales.
      (11)   Planing mills.
      (12)   Coal yards, brick and tile yards, for retail sales.
      (13)   Machine shop or other metal working shop excluding drop hammers or
other noise-producing machinery.
      (14)   Warehousing.
      (15)   Grain elevators.
      (16)   Any use commonly and necessarily incident to a use authorized by
this section.
      (17)   Signs as regulated by §
150.218.
      (18)   Parking as regulated by §
152.024.
   (B)   Conditionally suggested uses. Council may issue conditional zoning
certificates for uses listed herein, subject to the general requirements
referred to below:
      (1)   Sales offices provided that there shall be no display of any actual
product for sale except in accordance with the following regulations. No
display will be in an exterior show window and the total area devoted to
display including the objects displayed and the floor space set aside for
persons observing the displayed objects shall not exceed 20% of the usable
floor area of the establishment using the display of an actual product for sale
as a sales procedure; provided there shall be no outdoor storage of goods or
materials regardless of whether or not they are for sale; and provided further
that there shall be no warehousing or in the indoor storage of goods or
material beyond that normally incidental to such an office.
      (2)   Experimental or testing laboratories provided that no physical
effect of the experimental or testing activity can be detected beyond the
confines of the building in which the activity is located; and provided that no
exterior structural element of the building in which the activity is located
shall appear to be other than just normally incidental to an office use.
      (3)   Any other office, research, or similar use which the Commission
finds to be: consistent with the purposes of the article; and of a character
which will not impair the use of adjacent properties.
      (4)   Governmentally owned and/or operated buildings and facilities
subject to §
152.113(C) and (G).
      (5)   Public utility rights-of-way and pertinent structures subject to §
152.113(J).
      (6)   Temporary buildings and uses incidental to construction work
subject to §
152.113(M) and (P).
      (7)   Uses and structures permitted under §
152.047, C-1 Commercial District, provided such buildings and uses conform with
the requirements and restrictions of said §
152.047 and notwithstanding such requirements and restrictions may be more
permissive or less restrictive than those set forth in this section. The
conditional zoning certificates that may be issued by Council for such
commercial buildings and uses shall be subject to the requirements of §§
152.111,
152.112 and
152.114.
   (C)   Height. No structure shall exceed 45 feet in height unless approved by
the Municipal Fire Department and certified by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (D)   Front yard. Every structure shall have a front yard of no less than 50
feet in depth. On corner lots the front yard requirements shall be observed on
both streets.
   (E)   Side yard. Every structure shall have a side yard no less than 100
feet in depth.
   (F)   Rear yard. Every structure shall have a rear yard of not less than 100
feet in depth.
   (G)   Loading and unloading. Every structure shall be provided with adequate
space for the loading and unloading of all vehicles serving the proposed
structure, provided however, that the Board of Zoning Appeals may modify or
waive this requirement where such space is not needed.
   (H)   Off-street parking. Off-street parking facilities shall be provided in
accordance with §
152.024. Parking for only those industries located within the municipal limits
will be allowed in such industrial area.
   (I)   Site plan review and conformance. All industrial uses specified under
divisions (A) and (B) of this section shall be permitted only after the review
and the approval of the site plans by the Planning Commission and upon finding
by the Commission that the specific standards set forth in this section and the
requirements of §§
152.015 through
152.029 and §
150.218 will be met.
   (J)   Industrial parks. The industrial parks approach to the development of
industrially zoned areas is greatly encouraged. The regulations of the Village
Zoning Ordinance may be modified by the degree necessary to accomplish the
objectives and guidelines required for industrial parks (see Design Guidelines
for the Mogadore Industrial Park). Nothing, however, shall exempt the developer
from the requirements of subdivision plat approval as specified in §§
151.020 through
151.023 of the Subdivision Regulations.
(Ord. passed 12-11-90; Am. Ord. 4, passed 1-20-99; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-
20-18) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.050 P-1 PARK DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. Public facilities, as used throughout this zoning code, means
facilities classified as main and accessory buildings and uses in the schedules
set forth in this section. Districts and regulations are established in order
to achieve, among others, the following purposes:
      (1)   To provide proper zoning classification for recreational and quasi-
public facilities in proper locations and extent so as to promote the general
safety, convenience, comfort, and welfare;
      (2)   To protect such public facilities from the encroachment of certain
other uses and to make such uses compatible with adjoining residential uses;
      (3)   To provide an environment for the proper functioning of public
facilities in relation to the plans for community facilities.
   (B)   Use regulations. Buildings and land shall be used and buildings shall
be designed, erected, altered, moved, or maintained in a Park District only for
uses set forth in the following schedule:
 
DISTRICT MAIN BUILDINGS AND USES            ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND USES
         Recreational: parks, recreational
P-1      fields and playgrounds, pools and  Public parking areas or storage
         public gardens, and municipal park building
         buildings
 
   (C)   Use regulations. In P-1 Municipal Districts, unless otherwise provided
in this zoning code, no building or premises shall be erected which is
arranged, intended, or designed to be used except for the following purposes
and regulated by applicable sections of this zoning code:
      (1)   Municipal park buildings and improvements shall be erected in a P-
1 Park District.
      (2)   Accessory uses incident to the permitted uses are permitted.
      (3)   Essential services furnished by public utilities or other
governmental agencies, as are necessary for furnishing services to the
community, are permitted.
   (D)   Required conditions.
      (1)   No structure or premises shall be erected, occupied or used until
application is made to the Planning Commission for approval of such structure
or use. The Commission shall determine the conditions to be imposed on such
structure or use to assure that the health, safety and general welfare of the
resident of the village and the property values of the adjoining property are
preserved, including buffer zones necessary to protect surrounding property
from noise, dust, artificial illumination, sound systems, acoustic vibration or
disturbances, and to preserve aesthetic values within the area.
      (2)   All parking operations shall be conducted within the lot lines of
the premises. The Park and Recreation Board's recommendation on the parking
shall apply to the P-1 Municipal District.
   (E)   Park and Recreation Board authorization. No municipal park building or
improvement shall be erected without the affirmative recommendation of the Park
and Recreation Board.
   (F)   Final site plans.
      (1)   Final site plans shall be submitted to and be subject to the
approval of the Planning Commission before a building permit is issued. Such
plans shall show drainage, sanitary sewers, the location of all buildings,
fences, wall, lighting installations, parking areas, traffic flow patterns, and
elevation plans of proposed structures. When such plans are submitted to the
Commission they shall submit them to the Village Engineer for technical comment
and his recommendation to the Commission. Before approving such plans, the
Commission shall impose such conditions on the proposed structure or use as
will assure that the health, safety, peace, and quiet of the community and of
the occupants of the adjacent property will be preserved and protected from
noise, dirt, dust, artificial illumination, or other disturbance.
      (2)   The Commission shall have final authority for approval of plans and
specifications for all buildings and improvements to be constructed in a P-
1 Municipal District.
   (G)   Fees (exemptions). There shall be no fee required in connection with
any matter presented to the Planning Commission by the village relative to land
within a P-1 zoning classification, or for application for a zoning
certificate, occupancy permit, or any other type of certificate or permit
required by the village for zoning construction, occupancy, or otherwise upon
land within the P-1 zoning classification.
(Ord. 20, passed 5-3-00; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 152.052 PUD PLANNED USE DEVELOPMENT-MIXED DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent.
      (1)   In accordance with §
151.005, Planned Unit Developments are encouraged. Because of the size and
nature of PUD's, all PUD's are major subdivisions subject to the requirements
of §
151.023 of the Mogadore Subdivision Code. With this chapter a Planned Use
Development - Mixed District ("PUD-Mixed District") is established to encourage
the comprehensive design and integrated development of large tracts of land
suitable for a variety of mutually supportive commercial and residential uses.
The general purposes of this PUD-Mixed District are served by the following
basic principles:
         (a)   Comprehensive planning of large tracts promotes more harmonious
suburban growth, providing opportunities for the integration of various types
of development projects within clearly identifiable development centers.
         (b)   Comprehensive planning allows different types of land uses to be
successfully integrated, provides functional convenience, and efficiencies in
the provision of public services and infrastructure.
         (c)   Comprehensive planning and integrated design means higher
densities of development can be accommodated without loss of environmental
quality. The general benefits of density include greater productivity of land,
more efficient utilization of transportation and utilities, more convenient
access between different development types; the potential for higher
development returns that can be channeled towards provision of higher level
pedestrian and open space amenities; and a concentration within a limited area
of the mass of people necessary to support various convenience services and
functions.
         (d)   Comprehensive planning and integrated design of large tracts of
land allows for more detailed definition and administration of architectural
and landscape design controls that must be pre-approved by the village and
carried throughout the development to foster the establishment of a "feel" or
"look" inherent to each PUD-Mixed District.
      (2)   The advantages of comprehensively planned and designed mixed-use
developments cannot be achieved by the standard application of existing zoning
laws for individual type uses. The PUD-Mixed District, therefore, is a zoning
classification providing for a variety of development types under special
development standards that are only applicable to the uses in each pre-approved
PUD-Mixed District.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall act to protect and preserve the value
appearance and use of property on which buildings are constructed or altered
within the PUD-Mixed District, to maintain a high character of community
development, to protect the public health, safety and convenience and welfare
and to protect real estate within such district from impairment or destruction
of value. Such purposes shall be accomplished by the Commission by reasonably
regulating, within the district and in accordance with accepted and recognized
architectural principals, the design, use of materials, finished grade lines,
dimensions, orientations and location of all main and accessory buildings to be
created, moved, altered, remodeled or repaired, subject to the provisions of
all applicable zoning and building codes and other applicable ordinances of the
village. In reviewing, regulating and approving building plans, the Commission
shall consider and take cognizance of the development of adjacent, contiguous
and neighboring buildings and properties for the purpose of achieving safe,
harmonious and integrated development of related properties.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The land in a PUD-Mixed District shall contain at
least 25 contiguous acres in the village. In the PUD-Mixed District, land shall
be used and buildings shall be designed, constructed, installed, or altered
according to the following:
      (1)   Class R-3 Multi-Family (except schools, cemeteries, commercial
farming, prefabricated structures, boarding houses, mental health facilities,
addiction treatment or addiction rehabilitation facilities and churches).
Rental units shall not exceed 50% of the total residential floor space within
the development. Basements shall not be included in floor space calculations.
      (2)   Central Business (except cars sales, car lot, library, places of
worship). Parking garages or decks must have high level of architectural
elements to allow the structure to fit in with the surrounding buildings
(facades, faux windows etc.)
      (3)   Similar main uses to any of the above uses are permitted subject to
the approval of the Planning Commission.
      (4)   Any accessory uses customarily incidental to any of the above uses
are permitted on the same premises subject to the approval of the Planning
Commission, which approval shall be confirmed by resolution of Council before
becoming effective.
   (C)   Area, setback and size requirements. The following area, setback and
yard requirements shall apply:
      (1)   Commercial or combined commercial/residential buildings and
associated land use shall not exceed 40% of the total development area. The
ground area occupied by the commercial building(s) shall not exceed 20% of the
total area committed to commercial and combined commercial/residential uses
within the PUD-Mixed District. The mixed-use development may be 100%
residential.
      (2)   To provide a mixed use and to serve a variety of residential needs,
the exclusively residential portion of the development shall occupy a minimum
of 60% of the development land space and include a minimum of 10% large single-
family units (2,400-3,500 s.f.), 20% medium single-family units (1,650 – 2,400
s.f.), and 20% small single-family units (1,300 – 1,650 s.f.). No more than 30%
of the single-family residential units can be townhouses and/or residences with
less than 1,400 square feet.
      (3)   In all instances where lot or boundary lines within the PUD-Mixed
District abut an existing residentially zoned (or residentially occupied)
property, side and rear yard setbacks shall be a minimum of 60 feet for
nonresidential structures within the PUD and a minimum of 30 feet for parking
or residential structures within the PUD.
      (4)   In addition to the above, a five foot tall landscape mound with a
five foot wide flat top shall be provided along all pre-existing, abutting
residential properties. Low maintenance ground cover or grass shall be planted
to stabilize the mounds and suitable, low growing evergreens (or other pre-
approved alternate) shall be planted across the top of the mound to create a
thick screening between the properties. The slopes of the mound sides shall not
exceed 3:1. There shall be a minimum of three feet from the toe of the mound to
the property line or an existing residential fence. Mounds and the associated
landscaping shall be installed within the first 14 days of beginning earthwork,
excavation or utility installation and must be completed within two weeks of
starting the mound construction.
      (5)   Garage doors shall be a minimum of 25 feet from any sidewalk or
curb.
      (6)   Because of the variety and nature of possible mixed use of the land
and structures, Planning Commission will rely on the Code as a guide for
setback and yard requirements, but may approve designs and layouts with
setbacks and yard requirements that will be specific to the development under
review. Pedestrian friendly layouts that provide oversized walks, "outdoor"
eating and pedestrian mall type amenities are preferred in the more commercial
portions of the development.
      (7)   The entire tract of land for the proposed development should to the
extent feasible be designed to achieve a reasonably consistent aesthetic
appearance.
      (8)   Lots, setbacks and unit specifics.
         (a)   Large single-family units - 2,400-3,500 s.f.
            1.   Lot requirements:
               a.   Minimum of 0.30 acres per lot.
               b.   Minimum lot width of 65 feet at the building setback line,
with an allowable maximum 25% deviation therefrom where the shape and
dimensions of a given lot reasonably justify a deviation.
            2.   Yard requirements:
               a.   Minimum front yard setback is 40 feet from the nearest
property line or right-of-way, but not less than 25 feet from a curb or walk
where a drive is located.
               b.   Minimum side yard setback is ten feet from the nearest
property line.
               c.   Minimum rear yard setback is 30 feet from the nearest
property line. Twenty foot minimum rear setback from decks or patios.
         (b)   Medium single-family units - 1,650-2,400 s.f.
            1.   Lot requirements:
               a.   Minimum of 0.25 acres per lot.
               b.   Minimum lot width of 55 feet at the building setback line,
with an allowable maximum 20% deviation therefrom where the shape and
dimensions of a given lot reasonably justify a deviation.
            2.   Yard requirements:
               a.   Minimum front yard setback is 30 feet from the nearest
property line or right-of-way, but not less than 25 feet from a curb or walk
where a drive is located.
               b.   Minimum side yard setback is ten feet from the nearest
property line.
               c.   Minimum rear yard setback is 30 feet from the nearest
property line. Twenty foot minimum rear setback from decks or patios.
         (c)   Small single-family units - 1,300-1,650 s.f.
            1.   Lot requirements:
               a.   Minimum of 0.15 acres per lot.
               b.   Minimum lot width of 50 feet at the building setback line,
with an allowable maximum 10% deviation therefrom where the shape and
dimensions of a given lot reasonably justify a deviation.
            2.   Yard requirements:
               a.   Minimum front yard setback is 25 feet from the nearest
property line or right-of-way, but not less than 25 feet from a curb or walk
where a drive is located.
               b.   Minimum side yard setback is five feet from the nearest
property line.
               c.   Minimum rear yard setback is 30 feet from the nearest
property line. Twenty foot minimum rear setback from decks or patios.
         (d)   Townhouses and condominiums.
            1.   Unit requirements:
               a.   Maximum of 20 units per acre.
               b.   Maximum amount of connected units is eight units.
               c.   Minimum unit width of 25 feet.
               d.   Minimum of 1,000 square feet per unit.
            2.   Yard requirements:
               a.   For front-loaded units, the minimum front yard setback is
20 feet from the nearest property line or right-of-way, but not less than 25
feet from a curb or walk where a drive is located.
               b.   For rear-loaded unit, the minimum front yard setback is
five feet from the right-of-way (or equivalent thereof) and five feet from the
nearest utility easement.
               c.   Minimum distance is 25 feet between buildings.
               d.   Minimum rear yard setback is 30 feet from the nearest
property line, 20 feet from deck or patio.
         (e)   Commercial or commercial /residential combined.
            1.   Unit requirements:
               a.   Minimum footprint of 10,000 square feet per building,
maximum footprint of 40,000 square feet. Three stories maximum.
            2.   Utility/storage structure:
               a.   Utility/storage structures may be a maximum of 400 total
square feet per structure with a maximum of one structure per commercial
building.
               b.   Maximum height of any utility/storage structure is 12 feet.
               c.   Utility or storage structure architecture shall match the
main building.
               d.   Special use structures that support the overall development
that do not comply with the above may be approved by the Planning Commission
and/or the Board of Zoning Appeals on a case by case basis.
            3.   Yard requirements:
               a.   Minimum of 20 feet with a ten foot landscape buffer between
commercial section and residential section within PUD-Mixed District.
               b.   Minimum setback from an existing public ROW is 50 feet with
a ten foot utility easement to the village.
               c.   Minimum setback from a proposed public or private ROW is 20
feet (25 feet to walk or curb if parking required).
               d.   Minimum distance between buildings is 30 feet.
   (D)   Off-street parking requirements. The following standards and
requirements for the provision and development of off-street parking shall
apply:
      (1)   Parking facilities in the PUD-Mixed District shall be planned and
developed in such a manner so as not to interfere with the use and enjoyment of
adjacent properties or with pedestrian and vehicular traffic on adjacent
streets.
      (2)   Large and medium single-family units require a minimum of two
garage parking spots and two driveway parking spots. Small single-family units
require a minimum of one garage parking spot and one driveway parking spot.
Garage parking for units smaller than 1,300 square feet is preferred; however,
Planning Commission may approve alternative parking if market demands and
proposed land use are determined to support the approval of alternative
parking.
      (3)   Every structure shall be provided with adequate space for the
loading and unloading of trucks and other vehicles serving proposed structure,
provided, however, that the Board of Zoning Appeals may modify or waive this
requirement where such space is not needed.
      (4)   All parking areas and driveways shall be concrete or approved
asphalt with adequate drainage to prevent water from standing or draining
across public walks or streets.
      (5)   Curbs or bumper guards shall be concrete, or material approved by
the Village Engineer.
      (6)   Landscaped areas within a parking lot shall be developed as planted
islands or landscaped areas to interrupt an expanse of pavement.
      (7)   Parking setback shall be as follows:
         (a)   In no event shall such parking setbacks be less than ten feet
from the perimeter of a PUD-Mixed District.
         (b)   Parking shall be kept five feet from adjacent lots within a PUD.
         (c)   Parking shall be kept 30 feet from an existing, abutting
residentially zoned or used property.
      (8)   Parking shall comply with §
152.024, and add one additional space per three residential units for guest
parking in the area of the residentially occupied area.
   (E)   Design and performance standards.
      (1)   In general, the Planning Commission approval process shall comply
with
Chapter 151 except as modified by this section. The Planning Commission must
approve the proposed build out plans of the entire property including set-
backs, building heights, layout, usage, green-space, architecture and finishes,
storm water detention, parking, lighting, fencing, landscaping, signage etc.
The final detailed plans must be substantially consistent with the approved
development concept approved by Planning Commission.
      (2)   Driveway curb cuts on any county or state road shall be located at
least 300 feet apart (centerline to centerline) and at least 200 feet from a
street intersection (centerline of cut to intersection of street right-of-way
lines).
      (3)   A traffic impact study to determine the pre and post-development
level of service and the need for a traffic signal or turn lane is required by
the village. All traffic control shall be in compliance with the Ohio Manual of
Uniform Traffic Control Devices (OMUTCD). Roadway geometry shall comply with
ODOT standards. The cost of all such studies, the review of said studies and
the construction of any required turn-lanes, signals etc. shall be borne by the
developer.
      (4)   The safety and ease of access for delivery trucks, service,
garbage, fire and emergency vehicles will be considered. Separate, discrete
garbage storage and pick up locations will be favored.
      (5)   Street lighting is required. The developer is responsible for the
design and installation of all street lighting upon the approval of the village
and the electric company.
      (6)   All utilities to be underground.
      (7)   The developer is to coordinate with the Akron Water Department
(Department of Public Utilities) regarding the availability of domestic and
fire-fighting water. The design, review, approval and construction of all water
system upgrades or extensions to serve the development shall be borne by the
developer.
      (8)   The developer is to coordinate sanitary sewer system requirements
and the need for supplemental sewer facilities with the Summit County
Department of Sanitary Sewer Services (DSSS). The design, review, approval and
construction of all sanitary system upgrades or extensions to serve the
development shall be borne by the developer.
      (9)   Erosion/storm water management and riparian setback requirements
shall comply with the requirements of the Mogadore Code.
      (10)   The developer shall note the existence of any flood plains or
wetlands within the development property (whether initially developed or not)
and comply with all regulations regarding flood plain development and wetland
encroachment. Special flood zones, wetlands, etc. that cannot be habitable
shall be permanent open space. For purposes of this division, a "flood zone"
shall include only those areas that are designated as such in a Federal
Emergency Management Agency ("FEMA") flood zone or flood plain map, then
current at the time the development plan is submitted, and that are also
subject to FEMA flood insurance requirements, and "wetlands" shall include
those areas designated as such in the applicable environmental delineation
report, but only to the extent so ratified in the corresponding confirmation
letter issues by the Army Corps of Engineers. See
Chapter 154.
      (11)   All storage, office space and production associated with permitted
uses shall be contained wholly within an enclosed building. With respect to
nonresidential areas, the Planning Commission shall require an accessory
structure (enclosure) on the lot to contain waste material awaiting pick-up,
the design to be approved by the Planning Commission. All equipment shall be
used or stored within buildings or within an accessory structure as may be
approved by the Planning Commission.
      (12)   All uses shall be regulated to comply with the following
performance standards:
         (a)   Noxious, toxic or corrosive fumes or gases shall not be emitted
which would be injurious or detrimental to persons, property or vegetation or
to be discernible to the sense of smell.
         (b)   Glare or brightness caused by vehicles, operations or
illumination of buildings shall be shielded to prevent a nuisance. Developer
shall submit a photometric plan to the Village Engineer for review. Such plan
shall be approved by the Village Engineer.
      (13)   Section
151.057 shall be replaced with: Utility easements shall be provided as required
by the utility companies with rear or side lot easements having a minimum width
of 20 feet. Easements parallel to and contiguous to the R/W shall be a minimum
of six feet for a single utility and 12 feet for two utilities. Overall
development plat, easement and utility maps shall be provided to all affected
utilities to secure sign-off prior to the village approval of the improvement
plans. Developers are encouraged to get utility input as soon as practical to
facilitate the efficient resolution of space requirements and easement needs.
      (14)   A combined grading and storm water management plan shall be
provided showing the lowest of the garage floor elevation and the first-floor
elevation for each structure to demonstrate that grading and run-off
requirements have been addressed. Due to the compact nature that often results
from PUD projects, long runs of surface water are not acceptable. Areas of
potential ponding shall be drained to address the reality of utility locations,
fencing and landscaping that often impact surface drainage. Grading around
structures shall provide six feet of fall over the first ten feet to promote
drainage away from the structure. Window wells around structures shall have a
drain connected to the underdrain.
      (15)   The sanitary sewer plan and profiles shall show the lowest floor
of each structure in the profile and in plan to demonstrate adequate fall is
available to access the proposed sanitary sewer.
      (16)   Typical roadways shall be 27 feet (back to back of curb). A
geotechnical report is required to determine whether additional base or
subgrade preparation is required. Localized areas of weak subgrade as evidenced
by a proof-roll shall be repaired as directed. Cul-de-sacs shall have a paved
diameter of 100 feet. Dead-end streets shall be no more than 600 feet long (500
feet to the cul-de-sac). Sidewalk shall be provided across the frontage of all
lots and as needed to provide connectivity through and to the entire
development and shall be four inches thick except at drive aprons (refer to
village standards). All roof drains shall be connected with prefabricated
connections to an eight inch smooth lined corrugated HDPE underdrain with pea-
gravel backfill located with 24 inches cover behind the curb. Roof drain
connections require a four inch tee and cap behind the walk. Caps to include
metal insert to allow metal detection location in the future. Curb shall be
straight, six inches tall curb. No more than 6,000 square feet of roof per
section of eight inches underdrain. Drainage inlets shall be EJIW 7030 or
Neenah R-3295. See village standard drawings for required construction details.
      (17)   The design and construction standards of all private streets,
driveways and parking areas are to be provided by the village.
      (18)   Hydrants shall match the village standards and include a five inch
Storz connection.
      (19)   All basements are to be 12-courses tall and include a sump pump/
foundation drain system.
   (F)   Landscaping, common open space, and architectural design.
      (1)   Developments in a PUD-Mixed District shall include a permanent open
space equivalent of a minimum of 10% of the total site area. This 10% area does
not include private property or space used for open parking lots, detention
basins, driveways or land covered by buildings, streets and sidewalks.
      (2)   Subject to landscape plans deemed necessary and appropriate by the
Planning Commission, areas bordering buildings shall be planted with ground
cover, trees, shrubs, hedges or other landscaping to maintain a park-like
effect. Parking setback and other undeveloped areas of the development shall be
graded, seeded and maintained as a lawn or wooded area in an orderly natural
state and shall be included in the landscape plans. All such landscape plans
approved by the Planning Commission are subject to approval by Council.
      (3)   Landscaping, driveways and other permitted uses shall at all times
be maintained in an orderly, neat, clean, sanitary and structurally sound
condition and all buildings, driveways or other structures shall be repaired in
order to maintain substantially their original appearance and condition to
prevent blight and unsightliness. Lawns and other landscaping shall be
maintained in accordance with acceptable landscaping principles and maintained
in a neat and orderly fashion.
      (4)   Where a PUD-Mixed District or use is contiguous to or across the
street from a residential zone or use, the Planning Commission may require
special landscaping, buffering, mounding or fences as the Planning Commission
finds necessary for appropriate separation, screening and protection.
      (5)   Development entrances shall include landscaped areas of a
proportion to clearly define the entrance. All exterior landscaping adjacent to
and within landscaped entryways shall include an irrigation plan and system.
      (6)   Commercial or combined commercial-residential structures.
         (a)   A minimum of 75% of the front façade shall be glass, brick or
stone.
         (b)   If two sides of the building are highly visible or may be the
side of approach, the secondary side must include a minimum of 45% glass, brick
or stone.
         (c)   Large, blank walls are not acceptable. Strip plaza architecture
is not permitted.
         (d)   Storefront style buildings with distinctly different upper floor
uses are acceptable. Between the first-floor structural dividers, 40% of each
storefront bay shall be glass. Storefronts shall vary to provide cohesive, but
non-repetitive architectural elements.
         (e)   Storefronts may include awnings that fit within the limits of
the lintel and are a minimum of seven feet above the grade. Awnings shall be
fabric on a metal frame or of architectural aluminum construction/design.
         (f)   Storefront entrances shall be a minimum of three feet behind the
front façade and include at least 80% transparent glass.
         (g)   Entrances to the upper floors shall be separate from the
storefront.
         (h)   Secondary entrances are allowed from behind the storefront unit
to provide access to parking areas; however, the front access must be
maintained as the primary access.
         (i)   Providing a different look between storefronts to avoid
repetitive architecture between storefronts is acceptable. If applied,
alternating design features must be congruent and consistent with the overall
feel of the building.
         (j)   Building signs utilizing individual letters may be required
where a panel sign will detract from the aesthetics of the structure. Box style
signs will not be permitted.
[Image]
      (7)    To the extent feasible, residential structures shall be
constructed to what may be reasonably regarded as premium quality standard
through detailing in its design and architectural accessories and through
utilization of materials generally well regarded for their quality in the home
construction industry.
      (8)    Building walls.
         (a)   Buildings may be clad in vinyl siding, wood siding, cement
siding, brick or stone. Stucco may be used.
         (b)   When using brick, a standard modular brick shall be used.
         (c)   All exposed foundation walls shall be faced with brick or stone.
      (9)   Building elements.
         (a)   Window trim is required around all windows on front elevations
of non-masonry walls and must be three inches wide minimum.
         (b)   Corner boards are required on non-masonry walls on front facades
and must be a minimum of three inches wide.
         (c)   Frieze trim is required under overhangs and gables on front
elevations.
         (d)   Porch columns shall have a 6" x 6" minimum cross-section or
diameter.
         (e)   Railing/column details in combination are required to vary from
house to house and may vary between adjacent storefronts.
         (f)   Lintels in masonry walls must be brick soldier courses, stone,
or patterned precast concrete.
         (g)   Overhangs at eaves shall be a minimum of 12 inches.
         (h)   Trim and corner boards may be wood, vinyl, or fypon.
         (i)   No exposed wolmanized wood is permitted on front facades.
         (j)   No two houses in a row may have the same color combination of
wall, trim, windows, and shutters.
         (k)   All wood-burning fireplaces, chimneys, and all chimneys seen
from the street shall be faced with masonry.
         (l)   Where direct-vent fireplaces occur, the exterior shed shall be
designed to be integrated into the architecture.
      (10)   Windows and doors.
         (a)   Rear elevations must have a minimum of two windows.
         (b)   Windows shall be of square or vertical proportion.
         (c)   Accent windows may be circular, half-round, or octagonal. One
accent window maximum per elevation is permitted unless used in a pair.
      (11)   Building roofs. Primary roofs shall have a minimum of 6:12 roof
pitch. Porches may have a minimum of 3:12 roof pitch.
      (12)   Building height. Maximum building height is 45'-0" above grade for
any primary structure (commercial or residential).
      (13)   Building entries/porches - residential.
         (a)   All homes shall provide an easily identifiable entry.
         (b)   Where overhangs occur at a front door, a 2'-0" deep overhang is
required.
         (c)   All full porches shall be a minimum of 6'-0" deep. Entry
coverings and stoops shall be a minimum of 3'-0" deep.
      (14)   Garages - residential.
         (a)   Garages must be attached.
         (b)   Front elevations shall be designed to de-emphasize the visual
impact of the garage. A garage must be set back a minimum of 4'-0" from the
primary face of the house. Second floors may project over the garage; porches
and other architectural elements may project beyond the face of the garage;
single-car garage doors are encouraged to lessen the scale of a two-car garage
door.
         (c)   Side loaded garages are permitted with windows on the front
façade.
         (d)   Minimum garage door width is ten feet.
      (15)   Lighting. Security spotlights are not permitted on the front
façade of homes. Decorative fixtures shall be used in visible locations from
the street.
      (16)   Wheelchair accessibility ramps. Ramps shall be constructed to
blend into the architecture of the structure.
      (17)   Roofing. Three-tab asphalt shingles are not permitted.
      (18)   Fencing/hedges.
         (a)   Fencing shall comply with the development covenants and
restriction or the following; whichever is more restrictive.
         (b)   No fencing in front yards other than 4'-0' wood, decorative iron
or aluminum fencing. No fencing in side yards or between structures (to
maintain access for safety services). Four-foot-tall fencing is acceptable in
back yards; six-foot fencing may be approved to contain larger dogs. No chain-
link fencing. High quality PVC and vinyl fencing is acceptable.
      (19)   Accessory buildings/sheds are not permitted for condominiums,
town-house, bungalow or cluster style homes.
      (20)   Mechanical, electrical equipment and trash receptacles shall be
screened from street view.
      (21)   Satellite dishes. Satellite dishes or similar devices must be
placed in the backyard or rear roof and not visible from any street unless
approved by the Planning Commission.
      (22)   Porches and decks.
         (a)   Enclosed porches intended for year-around living space are not
permitted on the front or side elevations.
         (b)   Decks are not permitted on the front or side elevations.
      (23)   Mailboxes and paper-boxes shall follow the guidelines established
by the developer and approved by Planning Commission.
      (24)   Large expanses of blank wall are to be avoided. Planning
Commission must review and approve all building facades.
      (25)   Skylights shall be flat (not bubble type).
      (26)   Decks, porches and similar structures shall include skirting.
      (27)   Sheds shall comply with the development covenants and
restrictions. Sheds shall be located no closer than 50 feet from the primary
structure, at least 25 feet from an adjacent lot and no closer than two feet
from a lot line. No metal or plastic sheds. Sheds shall be painted to match the
primary structure.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
DRILLING WELLS
§ 152.090 PURPOSE.
   This conditional use is established to permit the drilling of wells for oil,
gas, and other hydrocarbons in the village subject to the requirements set
forth in §
152.049 and all other applicable sections of this chapter and to prescribe the
minimum standards and requirements to make the drilling, fracturing,
production, including storage and transmission, termination, and removal of the
wells as safe and compatible as possible with other land uses and activities in
the village. The Planning Commission is herewith given full authority to make
such recommendations as deemed necessary to give full force and effect to the
purposes and requirements expressed herein and Council is herewith given full
authority to impose such conditions as it shall deem necessary to give full
force and effect to the purposes and requirements expressed herein. An
appropriate application and compliance with the purposes and requirements of
this chapter and all other applicable sections of the village's regulations
shall be within the discretion of the Council, and no such determinations shall
serve as precedent to any other application. Each application shall rest solely
upon its own merit and prudent use of discretion by the Council. All provisions
of this chapter shall apply to the proposed well site and drill unit, property
owner(s), heirs, executors, or assigns, and to the well drilling and production
firms, partnerships, associations; or corporations and their successor and
assigns.
(Ord. passed 12-11-90; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 152.091 PERMIT AND CONDITIONAL USE ZONING CLASSIFICATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall commence to drill a well for
gas, oil, or other hydrocarbons within the corporate boundaries of the village
unless and until compliance with all provisions of this chapter, all other
applicable sections of the village codified ordinances, a condition use zoning
certificate has been approved for issuance by Council and a well drilling
permit has been issued by the Zoning Inspector. The procedures for obtaining a
conditional use zoning classification shall be as presently in effect and
required for other re-zoning requests.
   (B)   A conditional use zoning certificate shall be granted for a one-year
period and shall expire unless actual drilling commences within 90 days of the
issuance date.
   (C)   No person shall be permitted to drill more than two wells at any one
time, and no more than two conditional use zoning certificates shall be issued
to the same property owner or drilling company at any one time. Application for
a third certificate or any subsequent certificate may be made upon the
completion of the drilling of the first, second, and each numerically
subsequent well.
(Ord. passed 12-11-90; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 152.092 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application. Any property owner, person, firm, company, or corporation
desiring to drill a well for gas, oil, or other hydrocarbons within the
corporate boundaries of the village shall apply for a conditional use
certificate to the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Form and fee. All request for certification shall be accompanied by a
completed application form, all required information, and the fee specified in
the Permits and Approvals Fee Schedule. No refund of any part of a certificate
application fee shall be made to an applicant in cases of a denial or
revocation of a certificate by the village or to a certificate holder in the
case of a dry hole or for failure to exercise the privilege to drill upon the
site covered by the certificate. The application form shall be in such form and
format as determined by the Village Clerk.
   (C)   Additional data. The following data shall also be submitted as part of
the application:
      (1)   Site plan and vicinity map of the area involved in the application
drawn to scale dimensions and showing thereon:
         (a)   The current lot lines of all abutting and other properties
within 1,000 feet of the proposed well and storage tanks;
         (b)   The current location and use of all buildings and structures
within 1,000 feet of the proposed well and storage tanks and associated
equipment site(s);
         (c)   The names and addresses of all owners of property partly or
fully within a radius of 150 feet of the proposed well and storage tanks and
associate equipment site(s);
         (d)   The proposed location of pipelines to be utilized to transport
gas and/or oil to off-site locations and facilities;
         (e)   The proposed location of the well and all associated appliances
and facilities, such as well head, piping, separators, scrubbers, tank
batteries, storage tanks, access roads, dikes, fences, and any other
accouterments;
         (f)   A schematic of all pipe lines, connections and shut-off valves
for emergency purposes; the schematics shall be modified and resubmitted to the
village for emergency purposes at any time that a change in equipment for
facilities occurs;
         (g)   Specific plans for the removal, disposal methods and disposal
site of all spoils, saltwater, and other residues and waste materials resulting
from the drilling, fracturing, or production of the well;
      (2)   Each individual, corporation or association who has been or will be
contracted to haul brine or saltwater shall provide evidence of state
certification, state permit or such other similar documentation as may be
required to operate.
   (D)   Performance guarantees. At the time of approval, a cash or equivalent
bond of not less than $10,000 per well, shall be deposited with the Village
Clerk to serve as a financial guarantee for the compliance with the
requirements of this chapter and other applicable sections of the village
regulations. Guarantees shall be released upon completion of all landscaping,
painting, fencing, and such other restoration as shall be deemed necessary.
Completions shall be determined by the Zoning Inspector and Village Engineer
after inspection of the facilities and site.
   (E)   Easements or options. Copies of easements or options for easements
shall be submitted with the application for all pipe lines, production and
processing equipment and access drives where all such facilities are to cross
properties not included as part of the drill site or drill unit.
   (F)   Emergency information. In order that some responsible person may be
reached at any time in the event of an emergency the name, address and
telephone numbers of the persons responsible for the ownership, operation, and
all maintenance of each drilled well, whether capped, temporarily out of
production, not yet fractured, or in productions located within the village,
and who are available at any time and who have knowledge of well fire
treatment, shall be furnished to the Fire Chief, the Chief of Police and shall
be provided to owners and adult occupants of any building or structure within
1,500 feet of the proposed well site. This information shall include the street
location and state permit number and name of the well. The emergency
information required by this division shall be prominently posted at the
entrance to the access road to the drilled well site.
   (G)   State permits required. Applications for a well drilling conditional
use zoning certificate shall be considered by the Planning Commission and
Council only when the application includes a copy of currently valid permit
issued by the Ohio Department of Natural Resources, Division of Oil and Gas.
   (H)   Affidavit or compliance or exceptions. The applicant for a well
drilling conditional use zoning certificate shall be required to file with the
application, an affidavit stating that the applicant has complied with all
conditions of this chapter and other applicable requirements of this code, or
setting forth any exceptions thereto. Any false or erroneous statement in the
affidavit shall be grounds to refuse to authorize a conditional use zoning
certificate to drill or shall be grounds to revoke a certificate already
authorized or issued by the village.
(Ord. passed 12-11-90; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 152.093 EASEMENTS WITHIN VILLAGE PROPERTY; FEES.
   No holder of a conditional use zoning certificate shall be authorized,
without the express consent of Council to locate gas lines or other structures
or appurtenances associated with oil or gas wells within any public property.
In the event that Council grants easements to any such conditional use zoning
certificate holder, the fee for such utilization of such property shall be not
less than $.50 per linear foot per annum. In addition thereto, any such
permission shall contain a requirement that a bond in the amount established by
the Village Clerk for restoration of the property where the line is located; a
requirement that the holder shall landscape any metering, processing, or other
equipment areas associated with the gas/oil line and/or well; and a requirement
of minimum depth of 30 inches for each and every gas/oil line. If any gas/oil
line interferes with other public utilities servicing city rights-of-way, these
gas/oil lines shall be relocated at the owner's expense.
(Ord. passed 12-11-90; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.094 STANDARDS FOR REVIEW BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION AND COUNCIL.
   (A)   The Village Planning Commission and Council, when studying an
application for conditional use for drilling of a well for oil, gas or other
hydrocarbons shall review the particular facts and circumstances of each
proposed use in terms of the following standards, and if taking favorable
action on the proposals, shall find adequate evidence that the use:
      (1)   Will be harmonious with and in accordance with the general
objectives of the village's comprehensive plan.
      (2)   Will be designed, constructed, operated, and maintained so as to be
harmonious and appropriate in appearance with the existing character of the
same area.
      (3)   Will not be hazardous or disturbing to existing or future
neighboring uses.
      (4)   Will be served adequately to essential public facilities and
services such as highways, streets, police and fire protection, drainage
structures, refuse disposal, water and sewers, and schools; or that the persons
or agencies responsible for the establishment of the proposed use shall be able
to provide adequately any such services where applicable.
      (5)   Will not create excessive additional requirements at public cost
for public facilities and services and will not be detrimental to the economic
welfare of the community.
      (6)   Will not involve uses, activities, processes, materials, equipment
and conditions that will be detrimental to any persons, property, or the
general welfare by the reason of excessive production of traffic, noise, smoke,
fumes, glare, or odors.
      (7)   Will have vehicular approaches to the property which shall be so
designed as not to create an interference with the traffic on surrounding
public streets or roads.
      (8)   Will not result in the destruction, loss or damage of a natural,
scenic or historic feature of major importance.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall be authorized to consult with such
village department heads it deems necessary to adequately study an application.
This power shall include but not be limited to requesting a report (oral or
written) relating to the proposed application and its potential effect upon the
village.
(Ord. passed 12-11-90; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 152.095 PROCEDURES AND GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All applications for oil, gas or other hydrocarbon well drilling conditional
use zoning certificates shall comply with the following procedures and
requirements:
   (A)   Public hearing and notice. After the first reading, but before the
third reading of the legislation granting a conditional use zoning certificate,
Council shall require the applicant to schedule a public hearing, the date and
time of which shall be approved by Council, and the permittee shall cause all
property owners whose properties abut the drill unit and residents within the
village or neighboring municipalities within 1,200 feet of the well head to be
notified of such hearing in writing, all by certified mail, return receipt
requested. The Village Clerk shall provide the form of notice. The public
herein must occur not less than 30 days prior to the commencement of drilling
unless waived by Council. The permittee or driller shall file a list of
addresses with the village for all residents notified and shall thereon note
the time and place of hearing. In addition thereto, the week prior to the
actual drilling, notifying the residents indicated of the day the drilling
operations will commence. Compliance with the hearing provision of this chapter
shall be mandatory condition precedent to the commencement of drilling under a
permit.
   (B)   Certificate issuance; liability insurance. Upon the approval by a
majority of Council that a gas or oil well drilling conditional use zoning
certificate be granted, the Village Clerk shall issue the certificate and well
drilling permit upon such conditions and terms specified by Council.
      (1)   However, prior to such issuance, the village shall be provided with
a policy or certificate of insurance covering the applicant's liability for
property damage in an amount of not less than $500,000 and for personal injury
in an amount not less than $500,000 per individual, $1,00,000 per occurrence,
which insurance policy or policies must be maintained for such period of time
as drilling is in progress, what well is in operation or is producing oil or
gas. Or until such well is pulled and complete satisfaction of the village and
such policies may be rejected by the village for any valid reason.
      (2)   The permittee shall pay to the owners of any realty, crops,
buildings, improvements, goods or chattels located in the area, any extra cost
of insurance on the property imposed by reason of the granting of the permit or
the operations carried on thereunder and any and all damages suffered by any
person, persons, or corporations as to property within the village or adjacent
communities from fire over and above the insurance collected thereon, or from
oil, gas, or water caused by or originating from the operation connected with
the well, and will hold the village free and harmless from any and all
liability growing out of the granting of the well drilling certificate.
   (C)   Inspections; certificate revocation. The Village Engineer, Fire Chief,
Police Chief, or Zoning Inspector, or his duly authorized representative, shall
have the authority at any time other than a drilling or operator indicated
period of high hazard to enter upon property where a well is in the process of
being drilled, or upon a producing well site to inspect, examine or review
equipment and do all other things necessary to assure compliance with the
objectives and requirements of this section.
   (D)   Failure to comply. Failure to comply with any provisions of this
chapter shall be grounds to refuse to issue a permit to drill or shall be
grounds to revoke a permit already issued by the village. Revocation of a
permit shall remove all rights of the permittee to drill for oil or gas, to
fracture the well, or to continue production until such time as the permittee
takes steps to be in compliance with this section. Operations carried on by the
permittee after revocation of the permit shall constitute a violation of this
section and shall be a misdemeanor of the first degree, punishable under the
provisions of §
152.999.
(Ord. passed 12-11-90; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.096 SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS.
   All applicants and permittees for a gas and oil well drilling conditional
use zoning certificate shall comply with the following specific requirements,
which are deemed to be minimum specifications unless noted otherwise:
   (A)   Noise level. Drilling operations shall be controlled by double
exhausts, mufflers, or otherwise, so that the noise level of actual drilling
does not exceed the noise level of 55 dba at a 300-foot radius from the well
site during the time period commencing at 7:00 p.m. and terminating at 7:00
a.m. the following day. At any other time, the noise level shall not exceed 70
dba at a radius of 300 feet from the well site.
   (B)   Fencing and landscaping. The permittee, driller, or producer of any
drilled well, whether producing or not, shall meet the following requirements:
      (1)   Within six months of initiation of production, the well head and
all production and processing equipment shall be enclosed by permanent eight-
foot-high fencing with two gates at opposite ends of the enclosure of such
quality and maintenance to prevent to a reasonable degree, any unauthorized
entry or access.
      (2)   Wells, production facilities, and processing equipment located near
an area of existing homes where two or more dwellings, not belonging to the
owner(s) or permittee for said well or equipment are located partly or
completely within a radius of 300 feet from the well or equipment shall be
enclosed by a vision obscuring masonry wall or wood fence at least eight feet
high.
      (3)   In all undeveloped areas not part of a platted or proposed
residential subdivision or not containing existing homes as specified in
division (B)(2) of this section, the vision obscuring masonry wall and wood
fences may be delayed at the discretion of the Planning Commission and Council,
who may at some future date require vision obscuring fences in response to
changing development conditions and as a condition for the continued production
of an existing well. Non-vision obscuring fences shall be of chain link at
least eight feet high.
      (4)   Wells, production facilities and processing equipment located on a
site adjacent to existing or proposed residential, commercial, or other non-
residential, commercial, or other non-residential structures or land uses, or
adjacent to existing streets, roads, or highways, where potentially damaged by
the well or facilities, may be required by the Planning Commission and Council,
to be enclosed by a vision obscuring masonry wall and wood fence at least eight
feet high.
      (5)   In addition to fine grading and the restoration of grass or other
vegetative cover, the well head and all equipment sites located within 500 feet
of nonindustrial areas, shall be landscaped with shrubs and trees to create an
environment and appearance compatible with the adjacent properties,
neighborhood and area. Upon the recommendation of the Planning Commission after
reviewing the submitted plans for restoration, fencing, and landscaping, the
Council shall approve the amount and type of landscaping to be provided.
Existing trees and shrubs shall be preserved and utilized to as great a degree
as possible in the final restoration and landscaping.
      (6)   Restoration, fencing, and landscaping shall be completed within six
months of the date drilling was initiated, conforming with approved plans and
prior to the release of performance bonds.
(Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
CONDITIONAL ZONING CERTIFICATES
§ 152.110 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Until recently, regulation of land uses and structures through zoning
was accomplished by assigning each use to one or more "use districts." However,
the functions and characteristics of an increasing number of new kinds of land
uses, combined with conclusive experience regarding some of the older, familiar
kinds of uses, call for a more flexible and equitable procedure for properly
accommodating these activities in the community. It should be recognized that
the forces that influence decisions regarding the nature, magnitude, and
location of such types of land use activities are many and varied and are
dependent upon the functional characteristics of the use, competitive
situations, and the availability of land. Certain "uses" need to be reasonably
controlled by specified requirements that provide practical latitude for the
investor, but at the same time maintain adequate provisions for the security of
the health, safety, convenience, comfort, prosperity, or general welfare of the
community's inhabitants.
   (B)   In order to accomplish such a dual objective, provision is made in
this chapter for a more detailed consideration of each conditionally permitted
use as it relates to location; size; design; method of operation; and intensity
of land use; which in turn affects the volume of traffic generated and traffic
movements, the concentration of population, and the kinds of public facilities
and service it requires. Land and structure uses possessing these particularly
unique characteristics are designated as conditionally permitted uses and are
permitted through the issuance of a conditional zoning certificate with
conditions and safeguards attached as may be deemed necessary for the
protection of the public welfare.
(Ord. passed 12-11-90; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 152.111 PROCEDURES FOR MAKING APPLICATION.
   (A)   Procedures for making application. An application shall be submitted
to the Planning and Zoning Commission and it shall contain the following data:
      (1)   The form supplied by the Planning and Zoning Commission completed
by the applicant.
      (2)   A site plan, plot plan or development plan of the entire property
being considered, drawn to a reasonable scale and showing the location of all
existing and proposed structures, the types of buildings and the uses proposed
location of all abutting streets.
      (3)   The fee payment for conditional zoning certificates shall be the
fee prescribed in the Permits and Approvals Fee Schedule. The Planning and
Zoning Commission will refer the application to the Village Engineer and/or any
other qualified consultants when it deems expert advice necessary, and the
applicant shall pay for the costs of said referral.
   (B)   Review by Planning and Zoning Commission. The Planning and Zoning
Commission shall review the proposed development as presented on the submitted
plans and specifications in terms of the standards established in this chapter.
Such review shall be completed and made public within 60 days of the first
regular monthly meeting of the Planning and Zoning Commission following the
submission of such application. If the application is submitted at a regular
monthly meeting of the Planning and Zoning Commission, then the 60-day period
shall begin with the date of submittal.
   (C)   Notice and hearing.
      (1)   No action of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall be taken in
any proceedings under division (B) of this section until after proper notice
has been given and public hearing has been held.
      (2)   Proper notice of a joint hearing before the Planning and Zoning
Commission and Council shall be public notice by publishing in a newspaper of
general circulation in the community and written notice mailed to the owner of
property, or the agent of such owner within 300 feet of the perimeter of such
parcel or parcels to be rezoned, at least ten days prior to the date of such
proposed hearing.
      (3)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall supply to the Planning and Zoning
Commission the names of property owners notified and copies of the notices sent
pursuant thereto.
   (D)   Issuance and revocation of conditional zoning certificate. The
application will be submitted to Council with the Planning and Zoning
Commission recommendations and conditions. Upon approval by Council, a
conditional zoning certificate will be issued by the Clerk-Treasurer. The
breach of any condition, safeguard, or requirement shall automatically
invalidate the certificate granted, and shall constitute a violation of this
chapter.
   (E)   Re-application. An application for a conditional zoning certificate
which has been denied wholly or in part by Council shall not be resubmitted
until the expiration of one year or more from the date of such denial, except
on grounds of newly discovered evidence or proof or changed conditions which
would be sufficient to justify reconsideration by Council.
(Ord. passed 12-11-90; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 152.112 STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS FOR CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   An applicant must establish by clear and convincing evidence that the
general standards of this chapter and the specific standards pertinent to each
proposed use shall be met throughout the period of the proposed use. The
Council shall determine compliance or non-compliance and shall insure that the
general standards and the specific standards and other terms of this chapter
pertinent to the proposed use shall be satisfied by the completion and
operation of the proposed development.
   (B)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall review the particular facts
and circumstances of each proposed use in terms of the following standards and
shall find by clear and convincing evidence that such use on the proposed
location:
      (1)   Will be harmonious with and in accordance with the general
objectives or with any specific objective of the comprehensive plan;
      (2)   Will be designed, constructed, operated, and maintained so as to be
harmonious and appropriate in appearance with the existing or intended
character of the general vicinity and that such a use will not change the
essential character of the same area;
      (3)   Will not be hazardous or disturbing to existing or future
neighboring uses;
      (4)   Will not be detrimental to property in the immediate vicinity or to
the community as a whole;
      (5)   Will be served adequately by essential public facilities and
services such as highways, streets, police and fire protections, drainage
structures, refuse disposal, or schools, or that the persons or agencies
responsible for the establishment of the proposed use shall be able to provide
adequately any such service;
      (6)   Will be in compliance with the subdivision regulations, the Board
of Health standards, and the building code;
      (7)   Will have vehicular approaches to the property which shall be so
designed as not to create an interference with traffic on surrounding public
streets or roads.
      (8)   All uses and associated premises, structures, activities, roads,
parking areas, utilities, construction, established after the effective date of
this chapter shall be in compliance with the village subdivision regulations,
building code, health code, housing code, and all other applicable regulations.
(Ord. passed 12-11-90; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.113 SPECIFIC REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO CONDITIONALLY PERMISSIBLE USES.
   (A)   All structures and activity shall be located at least 100 feet from
all property lines.
   (B)   Loud speakers which cause a hazard or annoyance shall not be
permitted.
   (C)   All points of vehicular entrance or exit shall be located no close
than 200 feet from the intersection of two major thoroughfares; or no closer
than 100 feet from the intersection of a major thoroughfare and a local or
collector thoroughfare.
   (D)   There shall be no more than one advertisement oriented to each
abutting road identifying the activity.
   (E)   All lighting shall comply with §
152.037.
   (F)   Elementary school structures shall be located on a collector
thoroughfare.
   (G)   Such developments shall be located on major thoroughfares or at
intersections of major and/or collector thoroughfares.
   (H)   Such developments shall be located adjacent to non-residential uses
such as churches, parks, industrial, or commercial districts.
   (I)   Such uses shall not require uneconomical extension of utility services
at the expense of the community.
   (J)   Site locations shall be preferred that offer natural or man-made
barriers that would lessen the effect of intrusion into a residential area.
   (K)   Such uses shall be properly landscaped to be harmonious with
surrounding residential uses.
   (L)   Such structures should be located adjacent to parks and other
nonresidential uses such as schools and shopping facilities where use could be
made of joint parking facilities.
   (M)   All permitted installations shall be maintained in a neat and orderly
condition so as to prevent injury to any single property, and individual, or to
the community in general; a bond may be required to insure that this provision
will be met.
   (N)   Lodging and boarding house uses shall be so designed, maintained, and
operated as to comply with inspection and rules of the Municipal Board of
Health and the regulations of all other applicable municipal codes, and to
minimize possible disruptive effects on the character of adjacent and nearby
properties. Parking shall be provided in accordance with §
152.046. The design and construction of parking areas, service areas, and
access drives shall be approved by the Commission. The property must have
approved sewer and water facilities and meet applicable fire and safety
standards. Such uses shall be permitted under the following conditions:
      (1)   Provided that such facilities be located at the extremity of the
business districts so as not to interfere with the pedestrian interchange
between stores in the district and provided further that it would not limit
expansion of the pedestrian-oriented facilities.
      (2)   No more than two driveway approaches shall be permitted directly
from any thoroughfare and shall not exceed 30 feet in width at the property
line.
      (3)   If the property fronts on two or more streets, the driveways shall
be located as far from the street intersections as is practical.
      (4)   At least six-inch high pedestrian safety curb shall be installed
along all street right-of-way lines except at driveway approaches and
landscaped areas.
   (O)   Any temporary structures shall be indicated as such on site plans
submitted to the Commission for approval. Such structures shall not be
continued as permanent structures. The period of continuance shall be set by
the Commission.
   (P)   The area proposed for a cemetery shall be used for cemetery purposes
only, and shall meet the following requirements:
      (1)   Only memorial park cemeteries having grave markers flush with the
surface of the ground shall be permitted. The term "marker" to refer to the
name of the deceased.
      (2)   Except for office uses incidental to cemetery operations, no
business or commercial uses of any kind shall be permitted on the cemetery
site.
      (3)   Minimum area required for a cemetery site shall be 40 acres.
      (4)   A building of brick and/or stone, solid and/or veneered, shall be
provided if storage of maintenance equipment and/or materials is to be
necessary.
      (5)   Pavement width of driveways shall be at least 20 feet (ten feet per
moving land).
      (6)   Drive shall be of usable shape, improved bituminous, concrete, or
equivalent surfacing and so graded and drained as to dispose of all surface
water accumulation within the area.
      (7)   Pavement is to be installed as development progresses and as
indicated on the final plans approved by the Commission.
      (8)   Sufficient parking spaces shall be provided as to not deter traffic
flow within the cemetery.
      (9)   Area drainage and/or sanitary facilities are subject to approval by
the Board of Health and the Village Engineer prior to the issuance of a
conditional zoning certificate.
      (10)   Only signs designating entrances, exits, traffic direction and
titles shall be permitted, and must be approved by the Commission.
      (11)   Adequate screening with shrubs, trees or compact hedges shall be
provided parallel to property lines adjacent to or abutting residential
dwellings; such shrubs, trees and hedges shall be maintained in good condition.
      (12)   Provisions shall be made for landscaping throughout the cemetery.
      (13)   Location of cemetery buildings and all other structures shall
conform to front side and rear yard building lines of the particular district
in which it is located.
      (14)   No gravesites shall be located within 100 feet of the right-of-way
lines of any publicly dedicated thoroughfare.
      (15)   A gravesite shall not be within 200 feet of an existing residence.
      (16)   Guarantees shall be made that the cemetery will be developed as
proposed on the plans approved by the Commission, the Municipal Engineer, and
the Municipal Board of Health. Guarantees shall be as follows:
         (a)   A performance bond in the amount of $25,000 for cemeteries of 40
acres. An additional $5,000 shall be required for each ten acres over 40 acres
or for each ten added at a later date. The amount of the bond will be reduced
annually, any by an amount that will leave the balance of the bond proportional
to the portion of the cemetery not developed to the specifications of the plans
approved by the Commission, the Municipal Engineer, and the Municipal Board of
Health.
         (b)   Other methods as might be worked out by the Commission, the
developers, and their legal advisors.
      (17)   A trust fund of an amount set by the Commission shall be
established by the cemetery developers for the perpetual maintenance of the
cemetery grounds. The trust fund shall be established before any burial spaces
are sold or used and shall be held and invested by a financial institution
mutually agreed upon by the developers and the Commission. A percentage of the
money from the sale of each burial space shall be put into the maintenance
trust fund. The percentage shall be an amount set by the Commission. Interest
yielded by the fund shall be applied towards the maintenance of the cemetery
grounds.
   (Q)   An integrated planned commercial development which is a grouping of
three or more commercial establishments which have common vehicular parking
facilities, controlled access to abutting streets, and are developed under a
unified site plan, shall be permitted provided the following conditions are
met:
      (1)   Only those types of business uses permitted for conventional
development in the district shall be permitted in integrated planned business
developments.
      (2)   The minimum setback building lines shall be 100 feet measured form
the street right-of-way line.
      (3)   Side yards and rear yards shall be required only on the perimeter
of the planned development and shall be 50 feet except that where the business
development is adjacent to a residential zone the side and/or rear yard shall
be 75 feet on the sides abutting the residential zone only.
      (4)   All points of entrance and/or exit shall be located no closer than
200 feet to the intersection of two thoroughfares.
      (5)   The minimum site size to be considered for an integrated planned
commercial development shall be three acres.
   (R)   Only retail uses which are customarily accessory or incidental to the
main recreational use shall be permitted; and shall include such uses as
refreshment stands, souvenir stands, and concession stands.
   (S)   A conditional zoning certificate for a use permitted under these
regulations shall be issued for a three-year period only. After a three-year
period has elapsed, a new conditional zoning certificate shall be required and
may be issued provided that the Commission and the Zoning Inspector determine
that the use has been and is being operated according to the specifications of
this chapter and the previous conditional zoning certificate. If necessary, the
Commission may make additional specifications for the continued operation of
the use as a prerequisite for reissuance of the conditional zoning certificate
should Council be aware of changes requiring such additional specifications.
   (T)   Vehicular approaches to the property shall be so designed and
sufficient off-street transient parking or waiting area provided as not to
create an interference with traffic on the street. Activities shall be
conducted within an enclosed building.
   (U)   All facilities and structures shall meet all municipal, county and
state health, building, electrical and other applicable codes.
   (V)   All activities, programs, and other events shall be adequately and
properly supervised as to prevent any hazard and to assure against any
disturbance or nuisance to surrounding properties, residents, or to the
community in general.
   (W)   All activities, except those required to be performed at fuel pumps,
shall be carried on inside a building; if work is performed on a vehicle, the
vehicle shall be entirely within a building.
   (X)   Two-family dwellings shall meet the following requirements:
      (1)   Height shall be no greater than that permitted for one-family
dwellings,
      (2)   Front yards shall meet the minimum front requirements for one-
family dwellings,
      (3)   Side yards shall be 1½ times the side yard requirements for one-
family dwellings,
      (4)   Rear yards shall meet minimum rear yard requirements for one-family
dwellings,
      (5)   Minimum lot area shall be 15,000 square feet,
      (6)   Minimum lot width shall be 120 feet,
      (7)   Minimum living area shall be 900 square feet for each dwelling unit
within a two-family dwelling,
      (8)   Architectural design shall be compatible with that of surrounding
one-family dwellings,
      (9)   Centralized water and sanitary sewers must be available prior to
occupancy of a two-family dwelling,
      (10)   Full basements must be provided for all two-family dwellings,
      (11)   Parking for two cars must be provided for each dwelling unit
within a two-family dwelling. Each space must be ten feet in width by 20 feet
in length. In addition, adequate backing and turning space must be provided,
and all parking spaces must be served by a single drive.
   (Y)   An off-street driveway must be provided which will accommodate a
minimum of 20 vehicles awaiting service by an auto laundry.
(Ord. passed 12-11-90; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18; Am. Ord. 2023-48,
passed 7-19-23) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.114 OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission may recommend that Council adopt or
Council may on its own initiative demand as conditions of approval any other
requirements that it deems necessary to fulfill the purposes and intent of this
chapter, including guarantees that any conditions will be fulfilled, a
contractual money defaults, deposits and bonds.
(Ord. passed 12-11-90; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.125 BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   (A)   Authority. The Board of Zoning Appeals is hereby created and
authorized to act as the administrative board as provided in R.C. § 713.11,
having all powers and duties prescribed by law and by this chapter.
   (B)   Composition and appointment. The Board shall consist of six members
appointed by the Mayor and approved by the Council. Each member shall be
appointed in accordance with the Charter. The mayor may remove any member for
reasons stated in writing. In the event of death or removal of a member, the
Mayor shall, with the approval of the Council, make the appointment for the
duration of the unexpired portion of the term of the deceased or removed
member. Vacancies created by resignation shall be filled in the same manner.
   (C)   Organization. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall elect a chairman from
its membership, shall appoint a clerk, and shall prescribe rules of the conduct
of its affairs.
   (D)   Quorum. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall require a quorum of four
members at all its meetings and the concurring vote of four members shall be
necessary to effect any order.
   (E)   Meetings. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall meet at the call of its
chairman or two other members, and at such other regular times as it may by
resolution determine.
   (F)   Witnesses. The Board of Zoning Appeals chairman or acting chairman may
administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses in all matters coming
within the purview of this chapter.
   (G)   Powers and duties. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall have the further
powers and duties specified as follows:
      (1)   Interpretation. Upon appeal from a decision by an administration
official, the power to decide any question involving the interpretation of any
provision of this chapter, including determination of the exact location of any
district boundary if there is uncertainty with respect thereto.
      (2)   Exceptions. The power to issue special permits as authorized by
this chapter. In granting any special permit, the Board of Zoning Appeals and
the Planning and Zoning Commission shall act in compliance with the provisions
of this chapter for zones pertaining thereto, and shall prescribe any
conditions that it deems to be necessary to or desirable for the public
interest. However, no such special permit shall be granted by the Board of
Zoning Appeals or the Planning and Zoning Commission unless it finds that the
use for which the permit is sought will not be injurious to the neighboring or
otherwise detrimental to the public welfare and will be in harmony with the
general purpose of this chapter.
      (3)   Variances. The power to vary or adapt the strict application of any
of the requirements of this chapter in the case of exceptional circumstances or
conditions peculiar to the land or buildings in question, whereby such strict
application would result in practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship that
would deprive the owner of the reasonable use of the land or building involved
in no other case. In granting any variances, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall
determine that the variance is in harmony with the general purpose of this
chapter, and shall prescribe any conditions it deems necessary or desirable to
prevent from said variance to the affected neighborhood or detrimental to the
public welfare.
   (H)   Procedure. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall act in accordance with
the procedure specified by law and by this chapter. All appeals and publication
shall refer to the specified provision of the ordinance involved, and shall
exactly set forth the interpretation that is claimed, the use for which the
special permit is sought, or the details of the variance that is applied for
and the grounds on which it is claimed that the variance should be granted, as
the case may be. Every decision of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be by
resolution, each of which shall contain a full record of the findings of the
Board of Zoning Appeals in the particular case. Each resolution shall be filed
in the office of the Board of Zoning Appeals by case number*, special permits,
variances, together with all documents pertaining thereto (*one or another of
the following headings: Interpretations, Special Permits, etc.).
   (I)   Notice and hearing. No action of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be
taken in any proceedings under divisions (G) and (H) of this section, and §
152.111(C), until after proper notice has been given and public hearing has
been held. Proper notice of a hearing before the Board of Zoning Appeals shall
be a public notice by publishing in a newspaper of general circulation in the
community and written notice mailed to the owner of property or the agent of
such owner; written notice mailed to owners of property, or agent of such owner
within 300 feet of such parcel or parcels to be rezoned, at least ten days
prior to the date of such proposed hearings.
   (J)   Appeals.
      (1)   Appeals to the Board of Zoning Appeals may be taken by any persons,
firm or corporation or by any officer, board or department of the municipality
deeming himself or itself to be adversely affected by the decision of the
administrative official pertaining thereto.
      (2)   Appeals shall be made no later than 15 calendar days after the date
of grievance. The appellant shall post security for the cost of all action
required for the hearing of the appeal, however, if the appeal is sustained, no
such cost shall be levied against the appellant. An appeal shall stay all
proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from, unless the
administrative office whose decision is appealed from shall certify to the
Board of Zoning Appeals, after the notice of appeal has been filed, that by
reason of facts stated in the certificate that such stay would, in his opinion,
cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not
be stayed except by a restraining order granted by the Board of Zoning Appeals
or by a court having lawful jurisdiction.
      (3)   Within its powers, the Board of Zoning Appeals may reverse of
affirm, wholly or in part, or modify the order, requirement, decision or
determination as in its opinion ought to be done in that end shall have all the
powers of the officer from whom the appeal is taken and it may issue or direct
the issuance of a permit or certificate. The appellant shall post a fee, as
designated in the Village Permits and Approvals Fee Schedule, for the cost of
all action required for the hearing of the appeal. Any of the fee not used will
be returned upon settlement of the approval.
   (K)   Reconsideration. The Board of Zoning Appeals may, upon its own
initiative, within ten days, and without necessitating an applicant's
initiating a new application for reconsideration, revise, modify, change or
retract a previously rendered decision or condition imposed. Such action by the
Board of Zoning Appeals may not be taken without a clear showing that facts
have come to its attention within said ten-day period, such facts then
providing grounds for reconsideration.
(Ord. passed 12-11-90; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 152.126 ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIALS.
   Except as otherwise provided by this chapter, the Clerk-Treasurer shall be
the primary contact for the administration and enforcement of this chapter,
including the receiving of applications, the inspection of premises and the
issuing of zoning and building permits. No zoning and building permit or
certificate of occupancy shall be issued except where the provisions of this
chapter have been complied with.
(Ord. passed 12-11-90; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 152.127 CITATION PROCEDURE.
   A violation of this chapter shall be cited by the Clerk-Treasurer, Zoning
Inspector, or Law Director:
   (A)   By sending a citation and order to comply by certified mail, return
receipt requested, to the owners, lessees, or person having control of the
premises or property involved and shall be deemed served and effective upon
receipt, or
   (B)   By the Zoning Inspector personally serving the citation upon the
above-mentioned persons. Personal service herein shall mean actual delivery to
such persons, or leaving said citation securely affixed in a conspicuous place
at the premises in question. The citation is by this method effective either
upon such actual delivery or upon affixing.
   (C)   If the persons as cited above fail or refuse to comply with the
citation and order to comply within 15 days following service, the Clerk-
Treasurer or Zoning Inspector shall serve upon the person, as in divisions (A)
and (B) of this section, an order to show cause within ten days before the
Zoning Inspector as to why compliance has not been made and why legal process
should not be instituted as in division (D) of this section.
   (D)   Where the cited party fails to comply or show cause, the Law Director
shall prepare and file an affidavit or complaint and cause a summons charging
said violation to issue pursuant to law.
(Ord. passed 12-11-90; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 152.128 ZONING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No building or structure shall be erected, added to, or structurally altered
until a permit therefore has been issued by the Clerk-Treasurer or other duly
authorized official. All applications for such permits shall be submitted by
the owner or lessees of the property concerned, or an agent thereof, in such
form as adopted by the village, and in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter and all other ordinances pertaining thereto, and unless upon written
order of the Board of Zoning Appeals, no such zoning permit or certificate
shall be issued for any building where said construction, addition, or
alteration of use thereof would be in violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter. Further, no permits shall be issued unless the property upon
which the proposed building or structure is to be erected abuts a street which
has been publicly dedicated and accepted by the municipality. Additionally, no
such permit shall be issuee for such new buildings or structures unless the
applicant therefore has obtained a right-of-way permit for sewer and water or a
private septic permit, or any other items requiring road opening.
(Ord. passed 12-11-90; Am. Ord. 12 passed 4-5-00; Am. Ord. 41, passed 7-2-07;
Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 152.129 EXHIBITS ACCOMPANYING APPLICATIONS.
   There shall be submitted with all applications for zoning permits the
following exhibits in duplicate:
   (A)   Layout of plot plan drawn to scale and showing the actual dimensions
of the lot to be built upon and the exact size and location on the lot of the
building or structure to be erected. This plot plan shall be prepared only
after the lot has been surveyed and the boundaries thereof determined and
visibly staked out by a registered surveyor.
   (B)   Plans showing the details of construction at each floor level and the
principal elevation views of the buildings or structure, together with such
other pertinent data necessary to determine and provide for the enforcement of
this chapter.
   (C)   Information required by the latest village plan review checklist or
code requirements.
(Ord. passed 12-11-90; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 152.130 PAYMENT OF FEES.
   One copy of the required exhibits shall be returned with a permit to the
applicant when approved by the administrative official and upon the payment of
a fee in accordance with municipal ordinance. The fees identified in the latest
Permits and Approvals Fee Schedule shall be collected by the Village Clerk at
the time of application for a zoning permit or village approval.
(Ord. passed 12-11-90; Am. Ord. 41 passed 7-2-07; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-
20-18)
§ 152.132 RETRACTION CLAUSE.
   (A)   Where any property, lot or premises are rezoned or permitted a
variation to allow a specifically requested and intended use, and/or
construction, such rezoning or variation shall be considered null and void,
revoked and retracted as to such property, lot or premises if it should appear
to Council or the Board of Zoning Appeals that the specifically requested and
intended use and/or construction which was the basis of the rezoning or
permitted variation is:
      (1)   Not to be implemented, or
      (2)   Not begun within 30, 60, or 90 days of the date when such rezoning
or permitted variation is approved by Council or the Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (3)   Not once begun or initiated, pursued to completion without delay or
interruption is shown by the applicant to have resulted from no fault or
negligence of his.
   (B)   For good cause shown by the applicant the above time period may be
extended by Council or the Board of Zoning Appeals upon application made before
the expiration of any previously granted time period, but each extension shall
be for a period not greater than 90 days.
   (C)   Council or the Board of Zoning Appeals shall have the power to
establish beginning dates (as in division (A)(2) of this section) or from 30 to
90 days, depending on their determination of which time limit is reasonable.
(Ord. passed 12-11-90; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 152.133 DISTRICT CHANGES AND ORDINANCE AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The Council may from time to time amend by ordinance the number,
shape, or area of districts established on the zoning map or the regulations
set forth in this chapter but no such amendment shall become effective unless
the ordinance proposing same shall first be submitted in writing by the Clerk-
Treasurer of Council to the Planning and Zoning Commission for approval,
disapproval or suggestions, and said Commission shall have been allowed a
reasonable time, not more than 60 days, for consideration and report.
   (B)   In the even the proposed amendment shall have the effect, if approved
and passed, of amending the number, shape or area of districts established on
the zoning map, the Planning and Zoning Commission and Council shall hold a
joint public hearing on the proposed amendment and shall give proper notice of
the time and place of such hearing. Thereafter, the Planning and Zoning
Commission shall submit its recommendations and report to Council.
   (C)   Proper notice of a joint hearing before the Planning and Zoning
Commission and Council shall be a public notice by publishing in a newspaper of
general circulation in the community and written notice mailed to the owner of
property, or the agent of such owner, within 500 feet of the perimeter of such
parcel or parcels to be rezoned, at least ten days prior to the date of the
proposed hearing.
   (D)   Prior to the public hearing, the Clerk-Treasurer shall supply to the
Planning and Zoning Commission the names of property owners notified and copies
of the notices sent pursuant thereto.
   (E)   Any person or persons, other than municipal officials, desiring an
amendment of the zoning map shall accompany the petition for such amendment or
the ordinance introduced for this purpose, with a statement giving the names
and addresses of the owners or the agent of owners of all properties within 500
feet of the perimeter of such parcel or parcels to be rezoned. Any such
petitions shall be accompanied by the fee prescribed in the Permits and
Approvals Fee Schedule.
(Ord. passed 12-11-90; Am. Ord. 36-1993, passed 8-18-93; Am. Ord. 2018-80,
passed 11-20-18)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   A violation of any provisions of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine
of not less than $10 nor more than $50. A violation shall be considered as
having been committed initially as of the date when a citation is issued. When
the violation continues, each day shall constitute a new and separate offense.
(Ord. passed 12-11-90; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
APPENDIX B: DIAGRAMS
Section
   
1.   Lot terms
   
2.   Types of lots
   
3.   Roof types and building height
   
4.   Basement and story
   
5.   Flood plain terms
   
6.   Classification of the thoroughfare system
§ 1. LOT TERMS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c73219de14ab53980697a9b859c768ba5c7e4a93/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2473.png]
(Ord. passed 12-11-90; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 2. TYPES OF LOTS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c73219de14ab53980697a9b859c768ba5c7e4a93/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2475.png]
(Ord. passed 12-11-90; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 3. ROOF TYPES AND BUILDING HEIGHT.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c73219de14ab53980697a9b859c768ba5c7e4a93/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2477.png]
(Ord. passed 12-11-90; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 4. BASEMENT AND STORY.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c73219de14ab53980697a9b859c768ba5c7e4a93/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2479.png]
(Ord. passed 12-11-90; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 5. FLOOD PLAIN TERMS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c73219de14ab53980697a9b859c768ba5c7e4a93/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2481.png]
(Ord. passed 12-11-90; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
§ 6. CLASSIFICATION OF THE THOROUGHFARE SYSTEM.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c73219de14ab53980697a9b859c768ba5c7e4a93/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2483.png]
(Ord. passed 12-11-90; Am. Ord. 2018-80, passed 11-20-18)
CHAPTER 153: EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL AND STORM WATER MANAGEMENT
Section
   
153.01   Purpose and scope
   
153.02   Definitions
   
153.03   Disclaimer of liability
   
153.04   Conflicts, severability, nuisances and responsibility
   
153.05   Regulated activities
   
153.06   Application procedures
   
153.07   Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan and Storm Water Management Plan
   
153.08   Compliance with local, state and federal regulations
   
153.09   Performance standards
   
153.10   Long-term inspection, maintenance and repair for structural storm
water best management practices
   
153.11   Bond
   
153.12   Enforcement
   
153.13   Violations
   
153.14   Appeals
§ 153.01 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to establish technically feasible and
economically reasonable standards to achieve a level of erosion and sediment
control, post-construction storm water control, and storm water management that
will minimize damage to property and degradation of water resources and
wetlands, and will promote and maintain the health and safety of the citizens
of the Village of Mogadore.
   (B)   This chapter will:
      (1)   Allow development while minimizing increases in erosion and
sedimentation.
      (2)   Reduce water quality impacts to receiving water resources and
wetlands that may be caused by new development or redevelopment activities.
      (3)   Allow development without increasing peak storm water runoff
discharge.
   (C)   This chapter applies to all parcels within the Village of Mogadore
used or being developed, either wholly or partially, for new or relocated
projects involving highways, underground cables, or pipelines; subdivisions or
larger common plans of development; industrial, commercial, institutional, or
residential projects; building activities on farms; redevelopment activities;
general clearing; and all other uses that are not specifically exempted in
division (D) of this section.
   (D)   This chapter does not apply to activities regulated by, and in
compliance with, the Ohio Agricultural Sediment Pollution Abatement Rules.
O.A.C. 1501:15-5-01 to 15-518.
(Ord. 60, passed 12-5-07)
§ 153.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meaning
herein indicated:
   ACRE. A measurement of area equaling 43,560 square feet.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs). Schedule of activities, prohibitions of
practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices (both
structural and non-structural) to minimize soil erosion and sedimentation and
to prevent or reduce the pollution of water resources and wetlands. BMPs also
include treatment requirements, operating procedures, and practices to control
facility and/or construction site runoff, spillage, or leaks; sludge or waste
disposal; or drainage from raw material storage.
   COMMUNITY. Village of Mogadore and its designated representatives, boards,
or commissions.
   CONSTRUCTION ENTRANCE. The permitted points of ingress and egress to
development areas regulated under this chapter.
   DEVELOPMENT AREA. A parcel or contiguous parcels owned by one person or
persons, or operated as one development unit, and used or being developed for
commercial, industrial, residential, institutional, or other construction or
alteration that changes runoff characteristics.
   DISTURBED AREA. An area of land subject to erosion due to the removal of
vegetative cover and/or soil-disturbing activities.
   DRAINAGE. The removal of excess surface water or ground water from land by
surface or subsurface drains.
   DRAINAGE AREA. The area of land contributing surface water to a specific
point.
   EROSION. The process by which the land surface is worn away by the action of
wind, water, ice, gravity, or any combination of those forces.
   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL. The control of soil, both mineral and organic,
to minimize the removal of soil from the land surface and to prevent its
transport from a disturbed area by means of wind, water, ice, gravity, or any
combination of those forces.
   FINAL STABILIZATION. All soil-disturbing activities at the site have been
completed and a uniform perennial vegetative cover with a density of at least
70% coverage for the area has been established or equivalent stabilization
measures, such as the use of mulches or geotextiles, have been employed.
   LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT. A professional landscape architect registered in the
State of Ohio.
   LARGER COMMON PLAN OF DEVELOPMENT OR SALE. A contiguous area where multiple
separate and distinct construction activities may be taking place at different
times on different schedules under one plan.
   MAXIMUM EXTENT PRACTICABLE. The level of pollutant reduction that site
owners of small municipal separate storm sewer systems regulated under 40
C.F.R. Parts 9, 122, 123, and 124, referred to as the National Pollutant
Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Storm Water Phase II, must meet.
   NPDES. National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System. A regulatory program
in the Federal Clean Water Act that prohibits the discharge of pollutants into
surface waters of the United States without a permit.
   OHIO EPA NPDES GENERAL CONSTRUCTION PERMIT. A permit issued by the Ohio
Environmental Protection Agency to an applicant for the discharge of storm
water from sites where construction activity is being conducted with discharges
to subsequent receiving waters. (Permit Number OHC000002 as amended)
   PARCEL. A tract of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a use,
building or group of buildings and their accessory uses and buildings as a
unit, together with such open spaces and driveways as are provided and
required. A parcel may contain more than one contiguous lot individually
identified by a Permanent Parcel Number assigned by the Summit County Fiscal
Office.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, firm, trust, commission, board, public
or private partnership, joint venture, agency, unincorporated association,
municipal corporation, county or state agency, the federal government, other
legal entity, or an agent thereof.
   PHASING. Clearing a parcel of land in distinct sections, with the
stabilization of each section before the clearing of the next.
   PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER/SURVEYOR. A professional registered in the State of
Ohio by the appropriate board.
   QUALIFIED INDIVIDUAL. Professional engineers, professional surveyors, and
landscape architects registered in the State of Ohio or a Certified
Professional in Erosion and Sediment Control as recognized by CPESC Inc.
   RAINWATER AND LAND DEVELOPMENT MANUAL (RWLD). Issued by Ohio Department of
Natural Resources. The RWLD Manual contains Ohio's minimum technical standards
for post- construction storm water quality and erosion and sediment control
standards. The most current edition of these standards shall be applicable with
this chapter.
   RUNOFF. The portion of rainfall, melted snow, or irrigation water that flows
across the ground surface and is eventually conveyed to water resources or
wetlands.
   SEDIMENT. The soils or other surface materials that are transported or
deposited by the action of wind, water, ice, gravity, or any combination of
those forces, as a product of erosion.
   SEDIMENTATION. The deposition or settling of sediment.
   SETBACK. A designated transition area around water resources or wetlands
that is left in a natural, usually vegetated, state so as to protect the water
resources or wetlands from runoff pollution. Soil- disturbing activities in
this area are restricted by this chapter.
   SOIL-DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Clearing, grubbing, grading, excavating, filling,
or other alteration of the earth's surface where natural or human-made ground
cover is destroyed and that may result in, or contribute to, erosion and
sediment pollution.
   SOIL ERODIBILITY. The susceptibility of soil to erosion and the amount and
rate of runoff, as measured under the standard unit plot condition. Soil
erodibility factors are available in the Summit County Soil Survey.
   STABILIZATION. The use of BMPs, such as seeding and mulching, that reduce or
prevent soil erosion by water, wind, ice, gravity, or a combination of those
forces.
   STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWP3). The written document that sets
forth the plans and practices to be used to meet the requirements of this
chapter.
   STREAM. A surface watercourse with a well-defined bed and bank, either
natural or artificial, which confines and conducts continuous or periodical
flowing water in such a way that terrestrial vegetation cannot establish roots
within the channel. (R.C. § 6105.01)
   STRUCTURAL STORM WATER BMP. Any constructed facility, structure, or device
that provides storage, conveyance, and/or treatment of storm water runoff. Also
referred to as a storm water management facility or a structural best
management practice.
   SUMMIT COUNTY STORM WATER MANAGEMENT MANUAL. Summit County's storm water
management requirements, developed and updated by the County Engineer.
   UNSTABLE SOILS. A portion of land that is prone to slipping, sloughing, or
landslides, or is identified by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Natural
Resource Conservation Service methodology as having a low soil strength.
   VILLAGE. Employees or designees of the Mayor of the Village of Mogadore,
Ohio, designated to enforce this chapter.
   WATER RESOURCE. Any public or private body of water, including lakes and
ponds, as well as any brook, creek, river, or stream having banks, a defined
bed, and a definite direction of flow, either continuously or intermittently
flowing.
   WETLAND. Those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or ground
water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal
circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life
in saturated soil conditions, including swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar
areas (33 C.F.R. Part 328, as amended).
   WETLAND PROFESSIONAL. An individual with training and experience in wetland
delineation acceptable to the U.S. Army Corp of Engineers.
(Ord. 60, passed 12-5-07)
§ 153.03 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   Compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall not relieve any person
from responsibility for damage to any person otherwise imposed by law. The
provisions of this chapter are promulgated to promote the health, safety, and
welfare of the public and are not designed for the benefit of any individual or
for the benefit of any particular parcel of property.
(Ord. 60, passed 12-5-07)
§ 153.04 CONFLICTS, SEVERABILITY, NUISANCES AND RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Where this chapter is in conflict with other provisions of law,
regulation, or ordinance, the most restrictive provisions shall prevail.
   (B)   If any clause, section, or provision of this chapter is declared
invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, the validity
of the remainder shall not be affected thereby.
   (C)   This chapter shall not be construed as authorizing any person to
maintain a private or public nuisance on their property, and compliance with
the provisions of this chapter shall not be a defense in any action to abate
such a nuisance.
   (D)   Failure of the village to observe or recognize hazardous or unsightly
conditions or to recommend corrective measures shall not relieve the site owner
from the responsibility for the condition or damage resulting therefrom, and
shall not result in the village, its officers, employees, or agents being
responsible for any condition or damage resulting therefrom.
(Ord. 60, passed 12-5-07)
§ 153.05 REGULATED ACTIVITIES.
   This chapter requires that a Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWP3)
and a Storm Water Management Plan (SWM Plan) be developed and implemented for
all parcels of one acre or more and on which any regulated activity of §
153.01(C) is proposed. For parcels less than one acre in size an SWP3 or SWM
Plan may not be required; however the owner shall comply with all other
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 60, passed 12-5-07)
§ 153.06 APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Soil-disturbing activities; submitting a Storm Water Pollution
Prevention Plan or Storm Water Management Plan. The applicant shall submit
three sets of the SWP3 and SWM Plan to the village as follows:
      (1)   For subdivisions. After the approval of the preliminary plans and
with submittal of the improvement plans.
      (2)   For other construction projects. Thirty days prior to soil-
disturbing activity.
      (3)   For general clearing projects. Thirty days prior to soil-disturbing
activity.
   (B)   The Village Engineer shall review the plans submitted pursuant to
division (A) of this section for conformance with current NPDES permit
requirements and this chapter and approve, or return with comments and
recommendations for revisions. A plan rejected because of deficiencies shall
receive a narrative report stating specific problems and the procedures for
filing a revised plan. An approved SWP3 shall serve as a permit to commence
soil-disturbing activities following a pre-construction meeting.
   (C)   Soil-disturbing activities shall not begin, and final plat approvals
will not be issued, without an approved SWP3.
   (D)   A pre-construction meeting must be held with the Village Engineer
prior to earthwork activities. The applicant, contractor, and applicant's
engineer should be in attendance at the pre-construction meeting.
   (E)   A site plan for individual sublots in a subdivision may not be
approved unless the larger common plan of development or sale containing the
sublot is in compliance with this chapter.
   (F)   Approvals issued in accordance with this chapter shall remain valid
for two years. If regulations concerning erosion and sediment control or storm
water quality change prior to the beginning of active construction, a new SWP3
may be requested.
   (G)   A stop-work order may be issued by the village to suspend any soil-
disturbing activity on the site until the site is in compliance with this
regulation.
(Ord. 60, passed 12-5-07)
§ 153.07 STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN AND STORM WATER MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   (A)   The applicant shall submit a Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan
(SWP3) consistent with the requirements of the most recent Ohio EPA NPDES
General Construction Permit. For specific requirements of an SWP3 the designer
shall refer to the NPDES Ohio general construction permit and the Ohio EPA SWP3
Checklist for Construction Activities. The SWP3 must address erosion and
sediment control during construction as well as post construction water quality
practices. Post- construction practices must meet the requirements of the NPDES
Ohio general construction permit and the Summit County Storm Water Management
Manual.
   (B)   The applicant shall submit a Storm Water Management Plan (SWM Plan)
which addresses flood control. The design and submittal shall be consistent
with the requirements of the most recent Summit County Engineer Storm Water
Management Manual, with the following exceptions to the basin design criteria:
      (1)   Design storm frequency shall be based upon comparison of the volume
of runoff from a two-year, 24-hour storm event on pre-development and post-
development conditions (critical storm methodology).
      (2)   If the percentage of increase of runoff volume is less than 20%,
the two-year storm will be considered the critical storm. If greater than or
equal to 20% and less than 50%, the five-year storm will be considered the
critical storm. If greater than or equal to 50% and less than 100%, the ten-
year storm will be considered the critical storm. If greater than or equal to
100%, the 25-year storm will be considered the critical storm.
      (3)   The peak rate of discharge from any storm event having a frequency
greater than or equal to the critical storm shall not exceed the peak rate of
runoff from a two-year, 24-hour storm under pre- development conditions. For
storms of less frequent occurrence than the critical storm, the peak rate of
runoff shall not exceed the pre-development peak rate of runoff for the same
frequency storm.
   (C)   The SWP3 and SWM Plan shall be certified by a qualified individual.
   (D)   The SWP3 shall incorporate measures as recommended by the most current
edition of Rainwater and Land Development Manual as published by the Ohio
Department of Natural Resources.
   (E)   Soils erodibility report. The Village Engineer may require the SWP3 to
include a Soils Engineering Report based upon his or her determination that the
conditions of the soils are unknown or unclear to the extent that additional
information is required to protect against erosion. This report shall contain
all the information listed below.
      (1)   Data regarding the nature and erodibility of existing soils.
      (2)   If applicable, data regarding the nature and erodibility of the
soil to be placed on the site.
      (3)   Conclusions and recommendations for grading procedures.
      (4)   Conclusions and recommended designs for interim soil-stabilization
devices and measures, for permanent soil stabilization after construction is
completed.
(Ord. 60, passed 12-5-07)
§ 153.08 COMPLIANCE WITH LOCAL, STATE, AND FEDERAL REGULATIONS.
   All submittals are required to show proof of compliance with all state and
federal regulations. Approvals issued in accordance with this chapter do not
relieve the applicant of responsibility for obtaining all other necessary
permits and/or approvals from the Ohio EPA, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers,
and other federal, state, and/or county agencies. If requirements vary, the
most restrictive requirement shall prevail. These permits may include, but are
not limited to, those listed below.
   (A)   Ohio EPA NPDES Permits authorizing storm water discharges associated
with construction activity or the most current version thereof. Proof of
compliance with these requirements shall be the applicant's Notice of Intent
(NOI) number from Ohio EPA, a copy of the Ohio EPA Director's Authorization
Letter for the NPDES Permit, or a letter from the site owner certifying and
explaining why the NPDES Permit is not applicable.
   (B)   Section 401 of the Clean Water Act. Proof of compliance shall be a
copy of the Ohio EPA Water Quality Certification application tracking number,
public notice, project approval, or a letter from the site owner certifying
that a qualified professional has surveyed the site and determined that Section
401 of the Clean Water Act is not applicable. Wetlands and other waters of the
United States shall be delineated by protocols accepted by the U.S. Army Corps
of Engineers at the time an application is made under this chapter.
   (C)   Ohio EPA Isolated Wetland Permit. Proof of compliance shall be a copy
of Ohio EPA's Isolated Wetland Permit application tracking number, public
notice, project approval, or a letter from the site owner certifying that a
qualified professional has surveyed the site and determined that Ohio EPA's
Isolated Wetlands Permit is not applicable. Isolated wetlands shall be
delineated by protocols accepted by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers at the
time an application is made under this chapter.
   (D)   Section 404 of the Clean Water Act. Proof of compliance shall be a
copy of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Individual Permit application, public
notice, or project approval, if an Individual Permit is required for the
development project. If an Individual Permit is not required, the site owner
shall submit proof of compliance with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineer's
Nationwide Permit Program. This shall include one of the following:
      (1)   A statement from a qualified wetland professional who has
determined that Section 404 of the Clean Water Act is not applicable.
      (2)   A site plan showing that any proposed fill of waters of the United
States conforms to the general and special conditions specified in the
applicable Nationwide Permit. Wetlands and other waters of the United States
shall be delineated by protocols accepted by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
at the time an application is made under this chapter.
   (E)   Ohio Dam Safety Law. Proof of compliance shall be a copy of the Ohio
Department of Natural Resources Division of Water permit application tracking
number, a copy of the project approval letter from the Ohio Department of
Natural Resources Division of Water, or a letter from the applicant's engineer
certifying and explaining why the Ohio Dam Safety Law is not applicable.
(Ord. 60, passed 12-5-07)
§ 153.09 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   The SWP3 must contain a description and location of all appropriate
BMPs for each construction operation. Prior to the start of grading and within
seven days from the start of grubbing the applicant must implement such
controls. The SWP3 must clearly describe for each major construction activity
the appropriate control measures; the general sequence during the construction
process under which the measures will be implemented; and the person(s)
responsible for implementation. The time frame for SWP3 implementation shall be
consistent with the current Ohio EPA NPDES Construction permit. No project
subject to this chapter shall commence without an approved SWP3.
   (B)   The applicant shall inform all contractors and subcontractors not
otherwise defined as “operators” as defined in the Ohio EPA's NPDES Permit, who
will be involved in the implementation of the SWP3 of the terms and conditions
of the SWP3. The owner shall maintain a written document containing the
signatures of all contractors and subcontractors involved in the implementation
of the SWP3 as proof acknowledging that they have reviewed and understand the
conditions and responsibilities of the SWP3. The written document shall be
created and signatures shall be obtained prior to commencement of work on the
construction site. A copy shall be made available to the Village Engineer upon
request.
   (C)   All projects, regardless of the area of disturbance, must utilize BMPs
to minimize erosion and off-site sedimentation. The controls shall include the
following minimum components:
      (1)   During active construction.
         (a)   Non-structural preservation measures. The applicant must make
use of practices that preserve the existing natural condition to the maximum
extent practicable. Such practices may include preserving riparian areas,
preserving existing vegetation and vegetative buffer strips, phasing of
construction operations in order to minimize the amount of disturbed land at
any one time, and designation of tree preservation areas or other protective
clearing or grubbing practices. Riparian and Wetland Setbacks of the Codified
Ordinances shall be followed.
         (b)   Erosion control practices. The applicant must make use of
erosion controls that are capable of providing cover over 70% of disturbed
soils. A description of control practices designed to restabilize disturbed
areas after grading or construction shall be included in the SWP3. The SWP3
must provide specifications for stabilization of all disturbed areas of the
site and provide guidance as to which method of stabilization will be employed
for any time of the year. Such practices may include: temporary seeding,
permanent seeding, mulching, matting, sod stabilization, vegetative buffer
strips, phasing of construction operations, the use of construction entrances,
and the use of alternative ground cover.
         (c)   Runoff control practices. The applicant must make use of
measures that control the flow of runoff from disturbed areas so as to prevent
erosion. Such practices may include rock check dams, pipe slope drains,
diversions to direct flow away from exposed soils and protective grading
practices. These practices shall divert runoff away from disturbed areas and
steep slopes where practicable.
         (d)   Sediment control practices. The applicant must install
structural practices that shall store runoff, allowing sediments to settle and/
or divert flows away from exposed soils or otherwise limit runoff from exposed
areas. Structural practices shall be used to control erosion and trap sediment
from a site remaining disturbed for more than seven days. Such practices may
include, among others: sediment settling ponds, silt fences, storm drain inlet
protection, and earth diversion dikes or channels which direct runoff to a
sediment settling pond. All sediment control practices must be capable of
ponding or filtering runoff in order to be considered functional. Earth
diversion dikes or channels alone are not considered a sediment control
practice unless used in conjunction with a sediment settling pond.
         (e)   Non-sediment pollutant controls. No solid or liquid waste,
including building materials and concrete wash-out water shall be discharged in
storm water runoff. The applicant must implement site best management practices
to prevent toxic materials, hazardous materials, or other debris from entering
water resources or wetlands.
         (f)   Compliance with other requirements. The SWP3 shall be consistent
with applicable state and/or local waste disposal, sanitary sewer, or septic
system regulations, including provisions prohibiting waste disposal by open
burning, and shall provide for the proper disposal of contaminated soils
located within the development area.
         (g)   Trench and ground water control. There shall be no sediment-
laden or turbid discharges to water resources or wetlands resulting from
dewatering activities. If trench or ground water contains sediment, it must
pass through a sediment-settling pond or other equally effective sediment
control device, prior to being discharged from the construction site.
Alternatively, sediment may be removed by settling in place or by dewatering
into a sump pit, filter bag or comparable practice. Ground water dewatering
which does not contain sediment or other pollutants is not required to be
treated prior to discharge. However, care must be taken when discharging ground
water to ensure that it does not become pollutant-laden by traversing over
disturbed soils or other pollutant sources.
         (h)   Applicant inspections. An initial inspection of all erosion and
sediment control practices shall be conducted by a qualified individual to
certify that the installations comply with the approved SWP3. All controls on
the site shall be inspected by the applicant's agent at least once every seven
calendar days and within 24 hours after any storm event greater than one-half
inch of rain per 24-hour period. The applicant shall assign a qualified
individual to conduct these inspections to ensure that the control practices
are functional and to evaluate whether the SWP3 is adequate, or whether
additional control measures are required. Internal inspections and
documentation of corrective actions taken must be made available upon request.
         (i)   Maintenance. The SWP3 shall be designed to minimize maintenance
requirements. All control practices shall be maintained and repaired as needed
to ensure continued performance of their intended function until final
stabilization. All sediment control practices must be maintained in a
functional condition until all up slope areas they control reach final
stabilization. The applicant shall provide a description of maintenance
procedures needed to ensure the continued performance of control practices and
shall ensure a responsible party and adequate funding to conduct this
maintenance, all as determined by the Village Engineer.
            1.   When inspections reveal the need for repair, replacement, or
installation of erosion and sediment control BMPs, the following procedures
shall be followed:
               a.   When practices require repair or maintenance. If an
inspection reveals that a control practice is in need of repair or maintenance,
with the exception of a sediment-settling pond, it must be repaired or
maintained within three days of the inspection. Sediment settling ponds must be
repaired or maintained within ten days of the inspection.
               b.   When practices fail to provide their intended function. If
an inspection reveals that a control practice fails to perform its intended
function as detailed in the SWP3 and that another, more appropriate control
practice is required, the SWP3 must be amended and the new control practice
must be installed within ten days of the inspection.
               c.   When practices depicted on the SWP3 are not installed. If
an inspection reveals that a control practice has not been implemented in
accordance with the schedule, the control practice must be implemented within
ten days from the date of the inspection. If the internal inspection reveals
that the planned control practice is not needed, the record must contain a
statement of explanation as to why the control practice is not needed.
         (j)   Final stabilization. All soil-disturbing activities are complete
and a uniform perennial vegetative cover with a density of 70% coverage for the
area has been established on all unpaved areas and areas not covered by
permanent structures. In addition, all temporary erosion and sediment control
practices have been removed and disposed of in an acceptable manner.
      (2)   Post-construction water quality practices.
         (a)   Non-structural water quality practices. Non-structural post-
construction best management practices include preservation, planning, or
procedures that direct development away from water resources or limit creation
of impervious surfaces. Practices such as conservation easements, riparian and
wetland setbacks, and conservation subdivision design are all non-structural
controls.
            1.   All non-structural water quality practices must be protected
from disturbance through the construction phase of the project.
            2.   All non-structural water quality practices must be protected
in perpetuity through the use of appropriate legal tools. All easement or
conservation areas must appear on the final plat and be disclosed to potential
buyers.
         (b)   Structural water quality practices. Structural post-construction
best management practices are permanent features constructed to provide
treatment of storm water runoff either through storage, filtration, or
infiltration.
            1.   All structural water quality practices must be established
prior to the completion of the project. Structural water quality practices
should be made functional once the disturbed areas on site are stabilized.
            2.   If detention/retention facilities were used for sediment
control during development sediments must be removed prior to the basin being
used for post-construction storm water quality.
(Ord. 60, passed 12-5-07)
§ 153.10 LONG TERM INSPECTION, MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR FOR STRUCTURAL STORM
WATER BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.
   (A)   Maintenance and repair. A structural storm water BMP must be
maintained in perpetuity by the homeowners of the properties served by a
structural BMP. The cost associated with maintenance and repair must be paid
for by the homeowners of the properties served by a structural BMP.
   (B)   Inspection. A structural storm water BMP must be inspected in
perpetuity to ensure proper function. The inspections must be paid for by the
homeowners of the properties served by a structural BMP. The village will
inspect the BMP on an annual basis, or more frequently if deemed necessary by
the Village Engineer. The village will send a letter to each resident served by
the structural storm water BMP to report the results of the inspection and re-
iterate the homeowner's responsibility to pay for inspection, maintenance and
repair of the structural storm water BMP in perpetuity.
   (C)   Long-Term Inspection and Maintenance Agreement.  The SWP3 submittal
must include a Long- Term Inspection and Maintenance Agreement which describes
the plan for maintaining the structural storm water BMP in perpetuity. The plan
must identify the means in which maintenance and inspection efforts will be
financed. The agreement should also include the following: contact information
to which annual inspection reports should be sent, a list of all addresses
which are served by the BMP, a statement of understanding of long-term
inspection and maintenance responsibilities, a long-term maintenance plan, a
copy of homeowners' association bylaws (where applicable). The agreement must
be reviewed and approved by the Village Engineer and Law Director.
   (D)   Deeds. The deed for each property served by the structural storm water
BMP must indicate that the property owner is required to pay for a portion of
the cost associated with facility inspection, maintenance and repair, in
perpetuity. This is a requirement even if a homeowners' association exists.
   (E)   If a homeowners' association intends to maintain the structural BMP on
behalf of the residents, the responsibilities of the association must be
written into the association bylaws.
   (F)   The total cost of long term inspection, maintenance and repair will be
split equally between all properties served by the facility, as identified in
the Long-Term Inspection and Maintenance Agreement. If a homeowners'
association is in place, payment may be made through the association. In the
case that the homeowners' association ceases to complete the required
obligations or does not exist, the property owners of the individual properties
will be required to reimburse the village directly for the cost associated with
facility inspection, maintenance and repair, in perpetuity.
   (G)   The village will charge for each inspection based upon the amount of
time spent on the inspection. The cost of inspection will be charged as
described herein.
   (H)   If a homeowners' association is in place, maintenance and repair may
be completed by a representative of the association. Maintenance and repair
must be completed to the satisfaction of the Village Engineer and must be
completed such that the BMP functions as originally intended. If a homeowners'
association does not complete maintenance and repair to the satisfaction of the
Village Engineer or if a homeowners' association is not in place, maintenance
and repair will be completed by a representative of the village. The cost of
maintenance and repair will be charged as described herein.
   (I)   The village is authorized to charge homeowners for all costs
associated with inspection, maintenance and repair, including any applicable
administrative or engineering fees. If a homeowners' association is in place,
the statement of charges will be sent to the association representative named
on the long-term inspection and maintenance plan. If a homeowners' association
is not in place or does not respond to the initial statement, a statement of
charges will be sent to each homeowner served by the storm water BMP. If the
property owner does not pay these charges within 30 days, the village may file
a lien against the subject. In the case of delinquency, the debt may be
enforced as delinquent village property taxes or by a suit against the
homeowner.
(Ord. 60, passed 12-5-07)
§ 153.11 BOND.
   (A)   For all commercial or residential developments, a cash bond must be
posted for the village to perform any storm water management and/or erosion and
sediment control-related obligations otherwise to be performed by the owner of
the construction site as stated in this regulation. This bond shall finance all
work to be performed as needed in the event that the applicant fails to comply
with the provisions of this regulation. The bond may be used for construction
activity, engineering fees and administrative costs.
   (B)   The cash bond required by this regulation shall be included as a part
of the bond required by §§
151.023(E)(3)(b)1. and 151.083(C) of the Subdivision Regulations.
   (C)   The portion of the bond dedicated to storm water management and
erosion and sediment control- related obligations must be in an amount adequate
to finance all required work, and shall be, at a minimum, as follows: for a
commercial site smaller than one acre: $5,000; for a commercial or residential
site one acre or larger: $10,000 plus $1,500 for each additional acre (rounded-
up to the whole acre).
   (D)   During the final inspection, as described in §
151.082(B)(3), the Village Engineer will check that the site has been
permanently stabilized. Prior to final inspection, any required as-built
drawing and long-term inspection and maintenance agreement must have been
accepted by the Village Engineer.
   (E)   No soil-disturbing activities shall be permitted until the bond has
been posted. Prior to utilizing the bond to perform storm water management or
erosion and sediment control obligations, the Village Engineer will issue
violation letter(s) in accordance with §
153.13, the Violations section of this regulation. If a stop-work order is
issued, the bond may be utilized by the village to finance corrective action.
The stop-work order will not be lifted until the site has been brought into
compliance with this regulation. The Village Engineer may request additional
funds be posted into the bond in the case that the initial bond was not
adequate to fund the required corrective action. After the site is brought into
compliance, the owner of the site must repost the Bond in the amount required
by this regulation.
   (F)   For an individual residential lot in which §
151.023(E)(3)(b)1. may not require that a bond be posted, the Village Engineer
may still issue violation letter(s) in accordance with §
153.13, the Violations section of this regulation, if the site is not compliant
with this regulation. If a stop-work order is issued, construction activity
will be ordered stopped until the site is brought into compliance with the
regulations of the village and the Village Engineer has determined that work
may resume.
(Ord. 60, passed 12-5-07)
§ 153.12 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   All development areas will be subject to inspections by a
representative of the village to ensure compliance with the approved SWP3.
   (B)   After each inspection the inspector may prepare and distribute a
status report to the applicant.
   (C)   If an inspection determines that operations are being conducted in
violation of the approved SWP3, the village may take action as detailed in §
153.13.
(Ord. 60, passed 12-5-07)
§ 153.13 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall violate or cause or knowingly permit to be violated
any of the provisions of this regulation, or fail to comply with any of such
provisions or with any lawful requirements of any public authority made
pursuant to this regulation, or knowingly use or cause or permit the use of any
lands in violation of this regulation or in violation of any permit granted
under this regulation.
   (B)   If the Village Engineer determines that a violation of the rules
adopted under this chapter exists, the Village Engineer shall issue an
immediate stop-work order if the violator failed to obtain any federal, state,
or local permit necessary for sediment and erosion control, earth movement,
clearing, or cut and fill activity. In addition, if the Village Engineer
determines such a rule violation exists, regardless of whether or not the
violator has obtained the proper permits, the Village Engineer shall authorize
the issuance of a violation letter.
   (C)   If, after a period of not less than 30 days has elapsed following the
issuance of the violation letter, the violation continues, a second violation
letter shall be issued. If, after a period of not less than 15 days has elapsed
following the issuance of the second violation letter, the violation continues,
the Village Engineer shall issue a stop work.
   (D)   In instances where the Village Engineer finds that immediate action is
necessary for public safety or the public interest, the Village Engineer may
require that work be stopped upon verbal order pending issuance of a written
violation letter and stop-work order.
   (E)   No stop-work order shall be issued under this section against any
public highway, transportation, or drainage improvement or maintenance project
undertaken by a government agency or political subdivision in accordance with a
statement of its standard sediment control policies that is approved by the
County or the Chief of the Division of Soil and Water Conservation in the Ohio
Department of Natural Resources.
(Ord. 60, passed 12-5-07)
§ 153.14 APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by any order, requirement, determination, or any other
action or inaction by the village in relation to this chapter may appeal by
arranging an on-site meeting with the Village Engineer and a representative of
the Ohio EPA. If the Ohio EPA representative indicates that the site is in full
compliance with the state's requirements for erosion and sediment control and
post-construction water quality, the Village Engineer will consider the minimum
standards for erosion and sediment control and post-construction water quality
as being met.
(Ord. 60, passed 12-5-07)
CHAPTER 154: FLOOD DAMAGE REDUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Statutory authorization
   
154.02   Findings of fact
   
154.03   Statement of purpose
   
154.04   Methods of reducing flood loss
   
154.05   Lands to which these regulations apply
   
154.06   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
   
154.07   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
154.08   Interpretation
   
154.09   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
154.10   Definitions
Administration
   
154.20   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator
   
154.21   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
154.22   Floodplain development permits
   
154.23   Application required
   
154.24   Review and approval of a floodplain development permit application
   
154.25   Inspections
   
154.26   Post-construction certifications required
   
154.27   Revoking a floodplain development permit
   
154.28   Exemption from filing a development permit
   
154.29   Map maintenance activities
   
154.30   Data use and flood map interpretation
   
154.31   Substantial damage determinations
Use and Development Standards for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
154.40   Application of standards
   
154.41   Use regulations
   
154.42   Water and wastewater systems
   
154.43   Subdivisions and large developments
   
154.44   Residential structures
   
154.45   Nonresidential structures
   
154.46   Accessory structures
   
154.47   Recreational vehicles
   
154.48   Above ground gas or liquid storage tanks
   
154.49   Assurance of flood carrying capacity
Appeals and Variances
   
154.60   Appeals Board established
   
154.61   Powers and duties
   
154.62   Appeals
   
154.63   Variances
   
154.64   Procedure at hearings
   
154.65   Appeal to the court
Enforcement
   
154.80   Compliance required
   
154.81   Notice of violation
 
   
154.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   Article XVIII, Section 3, of the Ohio Constitution grants municipalities the
legal authority to adopt land use and control measures for promoting the
health, safety, and general welfare of its citizens. Therefore, the Village
Council of Mogadore, State of Ohio, does ordain the following standards and
regulations for flood damage reduction.
(Ord. 2009-40, passed 6-17-09)
§ 154.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   The village has special flood hazard areas that are subject to periodic
inundation which may result in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base.
Additionally, structures that are inadequately elevated, floodproofed, or
otherwise protected from flood damage also contribute to the flood loss. In
order to minimize the threat of such damages and to achieve the purposes
hereinafter set forth, these regulations are adopted.
(Ord. 2009-40, passed 6-17-09)
§ 154.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of these regulations to promote the public health, safety
and general welfare, and to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
areas of special flood hazard;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the proper use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to protect property and
minimize future flood blight areas;
   (G)   Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their actions;
   (H)   Minimize the impact of development on adjacent properties within and
near flood prone areas;
   (I)   Ensure that the flood storage and conveyance functions of the
floodplain are maintained;
   (J)   Minimize the impact of development on the natural, beneficial values
of the floodplain;
   (K)   Prevent floodplain uses that are either hazardous or environmentally
incompatible; and
   (L)   Meet community participation requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
(Ord. 2009-40, passed 6-17-09)
§ 154.04 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSS.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, these regulations include methods and
provisions for:
   (A)   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety,
and property due to water hazards, or which result in damaging increases in
flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities, which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels,
and natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel flood
waters;
   (D)   Controlling filling, grading, dredging, excavating, and other
development which may increase flood damage; and,
   (E)   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers, which
will unnaturally divert flood, waters or which may increase flood hazards in
other areas.
(Ord. 2009-40, passed 6-17-09)
§ 154.05 LANDS TO WHICH THESE REGULATIONS APPLY.
   These regulations shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within
the jurisdiction of the village as identified in §
154.06, including any additional areas of special flood hazard annexed by the
village.
(Ord. 2009-40, passed 6-17-09)
§ 154.06 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   For the purposes of these regulations, the following studies and/or maps are
adopted:
   (A)   Flood Insurance Study Summit County, Ohio and Incorporated Areas and
Flood Insurance Rate Map Summit County, Ohio and Incorporated Areas both
effective July 20, 2009.
   (B)   Other studies and/or maps, which may be relied upon for establishment
of the flood protection elevation, delineation of the 100-year floodplain,
floodways or delineation of other areas of special flood hazard.
   (C)   (1)   Any hydrologic and hydraulic engineering analysis authored by a
registered professional engineer in the State of Ohio which has been approved
by the village as required by §
154.43.
      (2)   Any revisions to the aforementioned maps and/or studies are hereby
adopted by reference and declared to be a part of these regulations. Such maps
and/or studies are on file at 135 South Cleveland Avenue, Mogadore, Ohio 44260.
(Ord. 2009-40, passed 6-17-09)
§ 154.07 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   These regulations are not intended to repeal any existing ordinances
including subdivision regulations, zoning or building codes. In the event of a
conflict between these regulations and any other ordinance, the more
restrictive shall be followed. These regulations shall not impair any deed
restriction covenant or easement but the land subject to such interests shall
also be governed by the regulations.
(Ord. 2009-40, passed 6-17-09)
§ 154.08 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of these regulations, all provisions
shall be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and,
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes. Where a provision of these regulations may be in conflict with
a state or federal law, such state or federal law shall take precedence over
these regulations.
(Ord. 2009-40, passed 6-17-09)
§ 154.09 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by these regulations is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. These regulations do
not imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damage. These regulations
shall not create liability on the part of the village, any officer or employee
thereof, or the Federal Emergency Management Agency, for any flood damage that
results from reliance on these regulations or any administrative decision
lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 2009-40, passed 6-17-09)
§ 154.10 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in these
regulations shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in
common usage and to give these regulations the most reasonable application.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure on the same lot with, and of a nature
customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal structure.
   APPEAL. A request for review of the Floodplain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of these regulations or a request for a
variance.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year. The base flood may also be referred to as the 1% chance annual
flood or 100 year flood.
   BASE (100-YEAR) FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The water surface elevation of the
base flood in relation to a specified datum, usually the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum of 1929 or the North American Vertical Datum of 1988, and
usually expressed in feet mean sea level (MSL). In Zone AO areas, the base
flood elevation is the natural grade elevation plus the depth number (from one
to three feet).
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ENCLOSURE BELOW THE LOWEST FLOOR. See LOWEST FLOOR.
   EXECUTIVE ORDER 11988 (FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT). Issued by President Carter in
1977, this order requires that no federally assisted activities be conducted in
or have the potential to affect identified special flood hazard areas, unless
there is no practicable alternative.
   FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (FEMA). The agency with the overall
responsibility for administering the National Flood Insurance Program.
   FILL. A deposit of earth material placed by artificial means.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters, and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). Usually the initial map, produced by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, or U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development, for a community depicting approximate special flood hazard areas.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency or the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development has delineated the areas of special flood hazard.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RISK ZONES. Zone designations on FHBMs and FIRMs that
indicate the magnitude of the flood hazard in specific areas of a community.
Following are the zone definitions:
      (1)   Zone A: Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year flood;
base flood elevations are not determined.
      (2)   Zones A1-30 and Zone AE: Special flood hazard areas inundated by
the 100-year flood; base flood elevations are determined;
      (3)   Zone AO: Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year
flood; with flood depths of one to three feet (usually sheet flow on sloping
terrain); average depths are determined;
      (4)   Zone AH: Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year
flood; flood depths of one to three feet (usually areas of ponding); base flood
elevations are determined.
      (5)   Zone A99: Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year
flood to be protected from the 100-year flood by a federal flood protection
system under construction; no base flood elevations are determined.
      (6)   Zone B and Zone X (shaded): Areas of 500-year flood; areas subject
to the 100-year flood with average depths of less than one foot or with
contributing drainage area less than one square mile; and areas protected by
levees from the base flood.
      (7)   Zone C and Zone X (unshaded): Areas determined to be outside the
500-year floodplain.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official report in which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency or the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development has provided flood profiles, floodway boundaries (sometimes shown
on flood boundary and floodway maps), and the water surface elevations of the
base flood.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE). The base flood elevation. In areas where
no base flood elevations exist from any authoritative source, the flood
protection elevation can be historical flood elevations, or base flood
elevations determined and/or approved by the Floodplain Administrator.
   FLOODWAY.
      (1)   A floodway is the channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that have been reserved in order to pass the base flood
discharge. A floodway is typically determined through a hydraulic and
hydrologic engineering analysis such that the cumulative increase in the water
surface elevation of the base flood discharge is no more than a designated
height. In no case shall the designated height be more than one foot at any
point within the community.
      (2)   The floodway is an extremely hazardous area, and is usually
characterized by any of the following: Moderate to high velocity flood waters;
high potential for debris and projectile impacts; and moderate to high erosion
forces.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for the purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for
the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than
the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such
as wave action, obstructed bridge openings, debris and ice jams, and the
hydrologic effect of urbanization in a watershed.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listings on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on the State of Ohio's inventory of historic
places maintained by the Ohio Historic Preservation Office; or
      (4)   Individually listed on the inventory of historic places maintained
by village's historic preservation program, which program is certified by the
Ohio Historic Preservation Office.
   HYDROLOGIC AND HYDRAULIC ENGINEERING ANALYSIS. An analysis performed by a
professional engineer, registered in the State of Ohio, in accordance with
standard engineering practices as accepted by FEMA, used to determine flood
elevations and/or floodway boundaries.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). A letter of map change is an official FEMA
determination, by letter, to amend or revise effective flood insurance rate
maps, flood boundary and floodway maps, and flood insurance studies. LOMCs are
broken down into the following categories:
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). A revision based on technical data
showing that a property was incorrectly included in a designated special flood
hazard area. A LOMA amends the current effective flood insurance rate map and
establishes that a specific property is not located in a special flood hazard
area.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). A revision based on technical data
that, usually due to manmade changes, shows changes to flood zones, flood
elevations, floodplain and floodway delineations, and planimetric features. One
common type of LOMR, a LOMR-F, is a determination concerning whether a
structure or parcel has been elevated by fill above the base flood elevation
and is, therefore, excluded from the special flood hazard area.
      (3)   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR). A formal review and
comment by FEMA as to whether a proposed project complies with the minimum
National Flood  Insurance Program floodplain management criteria. A CLOMR does
not amend or revise effective flood insurance rate maps, flood boundary and
floodway maps, or flood insurance studies.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement) of a structure. This definition excludes an "enclosure below the
lowest floor" which is an unfinished or flood resistant enclosure usable solely
for parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, provided that such enclosure is built in accordance with the
applicable design requirements specified in these regulations for enclosures
below the lowest floor.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle. For the purposes of
these regulations, a manufactured home includes manufactured homes and mobile
homes as defined in R.C. Chapter 3733.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. As specified in the Ohio Administrative Code 3701-
27-01, a manufactured home park means any tract of land upon which three or
more manufactured homes, used for habitation are parked, either free of charge
or for revenue purposes, and includes any roadway, building, structure,
vehicle, or enclosure used or intended for use as part of the facilities of the
park. A tract of land that is subdivided and the individual lots are not for
rent or rented, but are for sale or sold for the purpose of installation of
manufactured homes on the lots, is not a manufactured home park, even though
three or more manufactured homes are parked thereon, if the roadways are
dedicated to the local government authority.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). A federal program enabling property
owners in participating communities to purchase insurance protection against
losses from flooding. This insurance is designed to provide an insurance
alternative to disaster assistance to meet the escalating costs of repairing
damage to buildings and their contents caused by floods. Participation in the
NFIP is based on an agreement between local communities and the federal
government that states if a community will adopt and enforce floodplain
management regulations to reduce future flood risks to all development in
special flood hazard areas, the federal government will make flood insurance
available within the community as a financial protection against flood loss.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the "start of construction" commenced
on or after the initial effective date of the Village of Mogadore Flood
Insurance Rate Map, April 2, 1982, and includes any subsequent improvements to
such structures.
   PERSON. Includes any individual or group of individuals, corporation,
partnership, association, or any other entity, including state and local
governments and agencies. An agency is further defined in R.C. § 111.15 as any
governmental entity of the state and includes, but is not limited to, any
board, department, division, commission, bureau, society, council, institution,
state college or university, community college district, technical college
district, or state community college. AGENCY does not include the general
assembly, the controlling board, the adjutant general's department, or any
court.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is built on a single chassis, 400
square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection,
designed to be self- propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck,
and designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ARCHITECT. A person registered to engage in the
practice of architecture under the provisions of R.C. §§ 4703.01 to 4703.19.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. A person registered as a professional
engineer under R.C. Chapter 4733.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL SURVEYOR. A person registered as a professional
surveyor under R.C. Chapter 4733.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. Also known as AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD, it
is the land in the floodplain subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in
any given year. Special flood hazard areas are designated by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency on flood insurance rate maps, flood insurance
studies, flood boundary and floodway maps and flood hazard boundary maps as
Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A1-30, and A99. Special flood hazard areas may also refer
to areas that are flood prone and designated from other federal, state or local
sources of data including but not limited to historical flood information
reflecting high water marks, previous flood inundation areas, and flood prone
soils associated with a watercourse.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The date the building permit was issued, provided the
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement, or other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The
actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of a
structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation
of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of
excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent
construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and
filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor
does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or
the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the
property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the actual start of construction means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of a building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, manufactured home, or gas or liquid
storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE also means flood related damage sustained by a structure on
two separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost  of repairs
at the time of each such event, on the average, equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures, which have incurred substantial
damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include:
      (1)   Any improvement to a structure that is considered "new
construction";
      (2)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified prior to the application for a development permit by
the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
      (3)   Any alteration of a "historic structure," provided that the
alteration would not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
"historic structure".
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the standards of these regulations
consistent with the variance conditions herein.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with these regulations.
(Ord. 2009-40, passed 6-17-09)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 154.20 DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Village Engineer is hereby appointed to administer and implement these
regulations and is referred to herein as the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2009-40, passed 6-17-09)
§ 154.21 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include but are not limited to:
   (A)   Evaluate applications for permits to develop in special flood hazard
areas.
   (B)   Interpret floodplain boundaries and provide flood hazard and flood
protection elevation information.
   (C)   Issue permits to develop in special flood hazard areas when the
provisions of these regulations have been met, or refuse to issue the same in
the event of noncompliance.
   (D)   Inspect buildings and lands to determine whether any violations of
these regulations have been committed.
   (E)   Make and permanently keep all records for public inspection necessary
for the administration of these regulations including flood insurance rate
maps, letters of map amendment and revision, records of issuance and denial of
permits to develop in special flood hazard areas, determinations of whether
development is in or out of special flood hazard areas for the purpose of
issuing floodplain development permits, elevation certificates, variances, and
records of enforcement actions taken for violations of these regulations.
   (F)   Enforce the provisions of these regulations.
   (G)   Provide information, testimony, or other evidence as needed during
variance hearings.
   (H)   Coordinate map maintenance activities and FEMA follow-up.
   (I)   Conduct substantial damage determinations to determine whether
existing structures, damaged from any source and in special flood hazard areas
identified by FEMA, must meet the development standards of these regulations.
(Ord. 2009-40, passed 6-17-09)
§ 154.22 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to begin construction or other
development activity including but not limited to filling; grading;
construction; alteration, remodeling, or expanding any structure; or alteration
of any watercourse wholly within, partially within or in contact with any
identified special flood hazard area, as established in §
154.06, until a floodplain development permit is obtained from the Floodplain
Administrator. Such floodplain development permit shall show that the proposed
development activity is in conformity with the provisions of these regulations.
No such permit shall be issued by the Floodplain Administrator until the
requirements of these regulations have been met.
(Ord. 2009-40, passed 6-17-09)
§ 154.23 APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   An application for a floodplain development permit shall be required for all
development activities located wholly within, partially within, or in contact
with an identified special flood hazard area. Such application shall be made by
the owner of the property or his or her authorized agent, herein referred to as
the applicant, prior to the actual commencement of such construction on a form
furnished for that purpose. Where it is unclear whether a development site is
in a special flood hazard area, the Floodplain Administrator may require an
application for a floodplain development permit to determine the development's
location. Such applications shall include, but not be limited to:
   (A)   Site plans drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions,
and topography of the area in question; the location of existing or proposed
structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage facilities, and the location
of the foregoing.
   (B)   Elevation of the existing, natural ground where structures are
proposed.
   (C)   Elevation of the lowest floor, including basement, of all proposed
structures.
   (D)   Such other material and information as may be requested by the
Floodplain Administrator to determine conformance with, and provide enforcement
of these regulations.
   (E)   Technical analyses conducted by the appropriate design professional
registered in the State of Ohio and submitted with an application for a
floodplain development permit when applicable:
      (1)   Floodproofing certification for non-residential floodproofed
structure as required in §
154.45.
      (2)   Certification that fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor of a
structure not meeting the design requirements of §
154.44(E) are designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces.
      (3)   Description of any watercourse alteration or relocation that the
flood carrying capacity of the watercourse will not be diminished, and
maintenance assurances as required in §
154.49(C).
      (4)   A hydrologic and hydraulic analysis demonstrating that the
cumulative effect of proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood by more than one foot in special flood hazard areas
where the Federal Emergency Management Agency has provided base flood
elevations but no floodway as required by §
154.49(B).
      (5)   A hydrologic and hydraulic engineering analysis showing impact of
any development on flood heights in an identified floodway as required by §
154.49(A).
      (6)   Generation of base flood elevation(s) for subdivision and large-
scale developments as required by §
154.43.
   (F)   A floodplain development permit application fee set by the schedule of
fees adopted by the village.
(Ord. 2009-40, passed 6-17-09)
§ 154.24 REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF A FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Review.
      (1)   After receipt of a complete application, the Floodplain
Administrator shall review the application to ensure that the standards of
these regulations have been met. No floodplain development permit application
shall be reviewed until all information required in §
154.23 has been received by the Floodplain Administrator.
      (2)   The Floodplain Administrator shall review all floodplain
development permit applications to assure that all necessary permits have been
received from those federal, state or local governmental agencies from which
prior approval is required. The applicant shall be responsible for obtaining
such permits as required including permits issued by the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers under Section 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act and Section 404 of the
Clean Water Act, and the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency under Section 401
of the Clean Water Act.
   (B)   Approval. Within 30 days after the receipt of a complete application,
the Floodplain Administrator shall either approve or disapprove the
application. If an application is approved, a floodplain development permit
shall be issued. All floodplain development permits shall be conditional upon
the commencement of work within one year. A floodplain development permit shall
expire one year after issuance unless the permitted activity has been
substantially begun and is thereafter pursued to completion.
(Ord. 2009-40, passed 6-17-09)
§ 154.25 INSPECTIONS.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall make periodic inspections at appropriate
times throughout the period of construction in order to monitor compliance with
permit conditions.
(Ord. 2009-40, passed 6-17-09)
§ 154.26 POST-CONSTRUCTION CERTIFICATIONS REQUIRED.
   The following as-built certifications are required after a floodplain
development permit has been issued:
   (A)   For new or substantially improved residential structures, or
nonresidential structures that have been elevated, the applicant shall have a
Federal Emergency Management Agency Elevation Certificate completed by a
registered surveyor to record as-built elevation data. For elevated structures
in Zone A and Zone AO areas without a base flood elevation, the elevation
certificate may be completed by the property owner or owner's representative.
   (B)   For all development activities subject to the standards of §
154.29(A), a letter of map revision.
(Ord. 2009-40, passed 6-17-09)
§ 154.27 REVOKING A FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be revocable, if among other things,
the actual development activity does not conform to the terms of the
application and permit granted thereon. In the event of the revocation of a
permit, an appeal may be taken to the Appeals Board in accordance with §§
154.60 through
154.65.
(Ord. 2009-40, passed 6-17-09)
§ 154.28 EXEMPTION FROM FILING A DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   An application for a floodplain development permit shall not be
required for:
      (1)   Maintenance work such as roofing, painting, and basement sealing,
or for small nonstructural development activities (except for filling and
grading) valued at less than $5,000.
      (2)   Development activities in an existing or proposed manufactured home
park that are under the authority of the Ohio Department of Health and subject
to the flood damage reduction provisions of the Ohio Administrative Code
Section 3701.
      (3)   Major utility facilities permitted by the Ohio Power Siting Board
under R.C. Chapter 4906.
      (4)   Hazardous waste disposal facilities permitted by the Hazardous
Waste Siting Board under R.C. Chapter 3734.
      (5)   Development activities undertaken by a federal agency and which are
subject to Federal Executive Order 11988 - Floodplain Management.
   (B)   Any proposed action exempt from filing for a floodplain development
permit is also exempt from the standards of these regulations.
(Ord. 2009-40, passed 6-17-09)
§ 154.29 MAP MAINTENANCE ACTIVITIES.
   To meet National Flood Insurance Program minimum requirements to have flood
data reviewed and approved by FEMA, and to ensure that the village flood maps,
studies and other data identified in §
154.06 accurately represent flooding conditions so appropriate floodplain
management criteria are based on current data, the following map maintenance
activities are identified:
   (A)   Requirement to submit new technical data.
      (1)   For all development proposals that impact floodway delineations or
base flood elevations, the community shall ensure that technical data
reflecting such changes be submitted to FEMA within six months of the date such
information becomes available. These development proposals include:
         (a)   Floodway encroachments that increase or decrease base flood
elevations or alter floodway boundaries;
         (b)   Fill sites to be used for the placement of proposed structures
where the applicant desires to remove the site from the special flood hazard
area;
         (c)   Alteration of watercourses that result in a relocation or
elimination of the special flood hazard area, including the placement of
culverts; and
         (d)   Subdivision or large scale development proposals requiring the
establishment of base flood elevations in accordance with §
154.43.
      (2)   It is the responsibility of the applicant to have technical data,
required in accordance with this division (A), prepared in a format required
for a conditional letter of map revision or letter of map revision, and
submitted to FEMA. Submittal and processing fees for these map revisions shall
be the responsibility of the applicant.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator shall require a conditional letter of
map revision prior to the issuance of a floodplain development permit for:
         (a)   Proposed floodway encroachments that increase the base flood
elevation; and
         (b)   Proposed development which increases the base flood elevation by
more than one foot in areas where FEMA has provided base flood elevations but
no floodway.
      (4)   Floodplain development permits issued by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be conditioned upon the applicant obtaining a letter of map
revision from FEMA for any development proposal subject to division (A)(1) of
this section.
   (B)   Right to submit new technical data. The Floodplain Administrator may
request changes to any of the information shown on an effective map that does
not impact floodplain or floodway delineations or base flood elevations, such
as labeling or planimetric details. Such a submission shall include appropriate
supporting documentation made in writing by the Mayor, and may be submitted at
any time.
   (C)   Annexation/detachment. Upon occurrence, the Floodplain Administrator
shall notify FEMA in writing whenever the boundaries of the village have been
modified by annexation or the community has assumed authority over an area, or
no longer has authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations
for a particular area. In order that the village's flood insurance rate map
accurately represent the village boundaries, include within such notification a
copy of a map of the village suitable for reproduction, clearly showing the new
corporate limits or the new area for which the village has assumed or
relinquished floodplain management regulatory authority.
(Ord. 2009-40, passed 6-17-09)
§ 154.30 DATA USE AND FLOOD MAP INTERPRETATION.
   The following guidelines shall apply to the use and interpretation of maps
and other data showing areas of special flood hazard:
   (A)   In areas where FEMA has not identified special flood hazard areas, or
in FEMA identified special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation and
floodway data have not been identified, the Floodplain Administrator shall
review and reasonably utilize any other flood hazard data available from a
federal, state, or other source.
   (B)   Base flood elevations and floodway boundaries produced on FEMA flood
maps and studies shall take precedence over base flood elevations and floodway
boundaries by any other source that reflect a reduced floodway width and/or
lower base flood elevations. Other sources of data, showing increased base
flood elevations and/or larger floodway areas than are shown on FEMA flood maps
and studies, shall be reasonably used by the Floodplain Administrator.
   (C)   When preliminary flood insurance rate maps and/or flood insurance
study have been provided by FEMA:
      (1)   Upon the issuance of a letter of final determination by the FEMA,
the preliminary flood hazard data shall be used and replace all previously
existing flood hazard data provided from FEMA for the purposes of administering
these regulations.
      (2)   Prior to the issuance of a letter of final determination by FEMA,
the use of preliminary flood hazard data shall only be required where no base
flood elevations and/or floodway areas exist or where the preliminary base
flood elevations or floodway area exceed the base flood elevations and/or
floodway widths in existing flood hazard data provided from FEMA. Such
preliminary data may be subject to change and/or appeal to FEMA.
   (D)   The Floodplain Administrator shall make interpretations, where needed,
as to the exact location of the flood boundaries and areas of special flood
hazard. A person contesting the determination of the location of the boundary
shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as
provided in §§
154.60 through
154.65.
   (E)   Where a map boundary showing an area of special flood hazard and field
elevations disagree, the base flood elevations or flood protection elevations
(as found on an elevation profile, floodway data table, established high water
marks, etc.) shall prevail.
(Ord. 2009-40, passed 6-17-09)
§ 154.31 SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE DETERMINATIONS.
   (A)   Damages to structures may result from a variety of causes including
flood, tornado, wind, heavy snow, fire, etc. After such a damage event, the
Floodplain Administrator shall:
      (1)   Determine whether damaged structures are located in special flood
hazard areas;
      (2)   Conduct substantial damage determinations for damaged structures
located in special flood hazard areas; and
      (3)   Make reasonable attempt to notify owners of substantially damaged
structures of the need to obtain a floodplain development permit prior to
repair, rehabilitation, or reconstruction.
   (B)   Additionally, the Floodplain Administrator may implement other
measures to assist with the substantial damage determination and subsequent
repair process. These measures include issuing press releases, public service
announcements, and other public information materials related to the floodplain
development permits and repair of damaged structures; coordinating with other
federal, state, and local agencies to assist with substantial damage
determinations; providing owners of damaged structures materials and other
information related to the proper repair of damaged structures in special flood
hazard areas; and assist owners of substantially damaged structures with
increased cost of compliance insurance claims.
(Ord. 2009-40, passed 6-17-09)
USE AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 154.40 APPLICATION OF STANDARDS.
   The following use and development standards apply to development wholly
within, partially within, or in contact with any special flood hazard area as
established in §§
154.06 or
154.30(A).
(Ord. 2009-40, passed 6-17-09)
§ 154.41 USE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Permitted uses. All uses not otherwise prohibited in this section or
any other applicable land use regulation adopted by the village are allowed
provided they meet the provisions of these regulations.
   (B)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   Private water supply systems in all special flood hazard areas
identified by FEMA, permitted under R.C. Chapter 3701.
      (2)   Infectious waste treatment facilities in all special flood hazard
areas, permitted under R.C. Chapter 3734.
(Ord. 2009-40, passed 6-17-09) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.42 WATER AND WASTEWATER SYSTEMS.
   The following standards apply to all water supply, sanitary sewerage and
waste disposal systems not otherwise regulated by the Ohio Revised Code:
   (A)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems;
   (B)   New and replacement sanitary sewerage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into flood waters; and,
   (C)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. 2009-40, passed 6-17-09) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.43 SUBDIVISIONS AND LARGE DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage and are subject to all applicable standards in these
regulations.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood damage.
   (D)   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data
are not available, the applicant shall provide a hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering analysis that generates base flood elevations for all subdivision
proposals and other proposed developments containing at least 50 lots or five
acres, whichever is less.
   (E)   The applicant shall meet the requirement to submit technical data to
FEMA in §
154.29(A)(1)(d) when a hydrologic and hydraulic analysis is completed that
generates base flood elevations as required by division (D) of this section.
(Ord. 2009-40, passed 6-17-09) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.44 RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES.
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure resulting
from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
Where a structure, including its foundation members, is elevated on fill to or
above the base flood elevation, the requirements for anchoring and construction
materials resistant to flood damage (division (B) of this section) are
satisfied.
   (B)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with methods and materials resistant to flood damage.
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or elevated so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvement of any residential
structure, including manufactured homes, shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, elevated to or above the flood protection elevation. Where flood
protection elevation data are not available, the structure shall have the
lowest floor, including basement, elevated at least two feet above the highest
adjacent natural grade.
   (E)   New construction and substantial improvements, including manufactured
homes, that do not have basements and that are elevated to the flood protection
elevation using pilings, columns, posts, or solid foundation perimeter walls
with openings sufficient to allow unimpeded movement of flood waters may have
an enclosure below the lowest floor provided the enclosure meets the following
standards:
      (1)   Be used only for the parking of vehicles, building access, or
storage;
      (2)   Be designed and certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls
by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters; or
      (3)   Have a minimum of two openings on different walls having a total
net area not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area,
and the bottom of all such openings being no higher than one foot above grade.
The openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other coverings or
devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters.
   (F)   Manufactured homes shall be affixed to a permanent foundation and
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of
over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors.
   (G)   Repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon a determination
that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's
continued designation as a historic structure and is the minimum necessary to
preserve the historic character and design of the structure, shall be exempt
from the development standards of this section.
   (H)   In AO Zones, new construction and substantial improvement shall have
adequate drainage paths around structures on slopes to guide floodwaters around
and away from the structure.
(Ord. 2009-40, passed 6-17-09) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.45 NONRESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES.
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial or other nonresidential structure shall meet the requirements of §
154.44(A) through (C) and (E) through (H).
   (B)   New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial or other nonresidential structure shall either have the lowest
floor, including basement, elevated to or above the level of the flood
protection elevation; or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, shall meet all of the following standards:
      (1)   Be dry floodproofed so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water to the level of the flood
protection elevation;
      (2)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and,
      (3)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect,
through the use of a Federal Emergency Management Agency Floodproofing
Certificate, that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with
division (B)(1) and (2) of this section.
   (C)   Where flood protection elevation data are not available, the structure
shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated at least two feet
above the highest adjacent natural grade.
(Ord. 2009-40, passed 6-17-09) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.46 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   Relief to the elevation or dry floodproofing standards may be granted for
accessory structures containing no more than 600 square feet. Such structures
must meet the following standards:
   (A)   They shall not be used for human habitation;
   (B)   They shall be constructed of flood resistant materials;
   (C)   They shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the minimum
resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
   (D)   They shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation;
   (E)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall be
elevated or floodproofed to or above the level of the flood protection
elevation; and
   (F)   They shall meet the opening requirements of §
154.44(E)(3).
(Ord. 2009-40, passed 6-17-09) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.47 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   Recreational vehicles must meet at least one of the following standards:
   (A)   They shall not be located on sites in special flood hazard areas for
more than 180 days;
   (B)   They must be fully licensed and ready for highway use; and
   (C)   They must meet all standards of §
154.44.
(Ord. 2009-40, passed 6-17-09) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.48 ABOVE GROUND GAS OR LIQUID STORAGE TANKS.
   All above ground gas or liquid storage tanks shall be anchored to prevent
flotation or lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic
loads.
(Ord. 2009-40, passed 6-17-09) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.49 ASSURANCE OF FLOOD CARRYING CAPACITY.
   Pursuant to the purpose and methods of reducing flood damage stated in these
regulations, the following additional standards are adopted to assure that the
reduction of the flood carrying capacity of watercourses is minimized:
   (A)   Development in floodways.
      (1)   In floodway areas, development shall cause no increase in flood
levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge. Prior to issuance of
a floodplain development permit, the applicant must submit a hydrologic and
hydraulic analysis, conducted by a registered professional engineer,
demonstrating that the proposed development would not result in any increase in
the base flood elevation; or
      (2)   Development in floodway areas causing increases in the base flood
elevation may be permitted provided all of the following are completed by the
applicant:
         (a)   Meet the requirements to submit technical data in §
154.29(A);
         (b)   An evaluation of alternatives, which would not result in
increased base flood elevations and an explanation why these alternatives are
not feasible;
         (c)   Certification that no structures are located in areas that would
be impacted by the increased base flood elevation;
         (d)   Documentation of individual legal notices to all impacted
property owners within and outside the community, explaining the impact of the
proposed action on their property; and
         (e)   Concurrence of the Mayor and the Chief Executive Officer of any
other communities impacted by the proposed actions.
   (B)   Development in riverine areas with base flood elevations but no
floodways.
      (1)   In riverine special flood hazard areas identified by FEMA where
base flood elevation data are provided but no floodways have been designated,
the cumulative effect of any proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development, shall not increase the base flood
elevation more than one foot at any point. Prior to issuance of a floodplain
development permit, the applicant must submit a hydrologic and hydraulic
analysis, conducted by a registered professional engineer, demonstrating that
this standard has been met; or,
      (2)   Development in riverine special flood hazard areas identified by
FEMA where base flood elevation data are provided but no floodways have been
designated causing more than one foot increase in the base flood elevation may
be permitted provided all of the following are completed by the applicant:
         (a)   An evaluation of alternatives which would result in an increase
of one foot or less of the base flood elevation and an explanation why these
alternatives are not feasible; or
         (b)   Division (A)(2), items (a) and (c) through (e) of this section.
   (C)   Alterations of a watercourse. For the purpose of these regulations, a
watercourse is altered when any change occurs within its banks. The extent of
the banks shall be established by a field determination of the "bankfull
stage." The field determination of "bankfull stage" shall be based on methods
presented in Chapter 7 of the USDA Forest Service General Technical Report RM-
245, Stream Channel Reference Sites: An Illustrated Guide to Field Technique or
other applicable publication available from a federal, state, or other
authoritative source. For all proposed developments that alter a watercourse,
the following standards apply:
      (1)   The bankfull flood carrying capacity of the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse shall not be diminished. Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit, the applicant must submit a description of the
extent to which any watercourse will be altered or relocated as a result of the
proposed development, and certification by a registered professional engineer
that the bankfull flood carrying capacity of the watercourse will not be
diminished.
      (2)   Adjacent communities, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and the
Ohio Department of Natural Resources, Division of Water, must be notified prior
to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse. Evidence of such notification
must be submitted to the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
      (3)   The applicant shall be responsible for providing the necessary
maintenance for the altered or relocated portion of said watercourse so that
the flood carrying capacity will not be diminished. The Floodplain
Administrator may require the permit holder to enter into an agreement with the
village specifying the maintenance responsibilities. If an agreement is
required, it shall be made a condition of the floodplain development permit.
      (4)   The applicant shall meet the requirements to submit technical data
in §
154.29(A)(1)(c) when an alteration of a watercourse results in the relocation
or elimination of the special flood hazard area, including the placement of
culverts.
(Ord. 2009-40, passed 6-17-09) Penalty, see §
154.99
APPEALS AND VARIANCES
§ 154.60 APPEALS BOARD ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Appeals is hereby appointed to serve as the
Appeals Board for these regulations as established by Village Code.
   (B)   A chairperson shall be elected by the members of the Appeals Board.
Meetings of the Appeals Board shall be held as needed and shall be held at the
call of the Chairperson, or in his or her absence, the Acting Chairperson. All
meetings of the Appeals Board shall be open to the public except that the Board
may deliberate in executive sessions as part of quasi-judicial hearings in
accordance with law. The Appeals Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings
showing the vote of each member upon each question and shall keep records of
all official actions. Records of the Appeals Board shall be kept and filed at
135 South Cleveland Avenue, Mogadore, Ohio 44260.
(Ord. 2009-40, passed 6-17-09)
§ 154.61 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Appeals Board shall hear and decide appeals where it is alleged
there is an error in any order, requirement, decision or determination made by
the Floodplain Administrator in the administration or enforcement of these
regulations.
   (B)   Authorize variances in accordance with §
154.63.
(Ord. 2009-40, passed 6-17-09)
§ 154.62 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person affected by any notice and order, or other official action
of the Floodplain Administrator may request and shall be granted a hearing on
the matter before the Appeals Board provided that such person shall file,
within 20 days of the date of such notice and order, or other official action,
a brief statement of the grounds for such hearing or for the mitigation of any
item appearing on any order of the Floodplain Administrator's decision. Such
appeal shall be in writing, signed by the applicant, and be filed with the
Floodplain Administrator. Upon receipt of the appeal, the Floodplain
Administrator shall transmit said notice and all pertinent information on which
the Floodplain Administrator's decision was made to the Appeals Board.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the notice of appeal, the Appeals Board shall fix a
reasonable time for the appeal, give notice in writing to parties in interest,
and decide the appeal within a reasonable time after it is submitted.
(Ord. 2009-40, passed 6-17-09)
§ 154.63 VARIANCES.
   Any person believing that the use and development standards of these
regulations would result in unnecessary hardship may file an application for a
variance. The Appeals Board shall have the power to authorize, in specific
cases, such variances from the standards of these regulations, not inconsistent
with federal regulations, as will not be contrary to the public interest where,
owning to special conditions of the lot or parcel, a literal enforcement of the
provisions of these regulations would result in unnecessary hardship.
   (A)   Application for a variance.
      (1)   Any owner, or agent thereof, of property for which a variance is
sought shall make an application for a variance by filing it with the
Floodplain Administrator, who upon receipt of the variance shall transmit it to
the Appeals Board.
      (2)   Such application at a minimum shall contain the following
information: Name, address, and telephone number of the applicant; legal
description of the property; parcel map; description of the existing use;
description of the proposed use; location of the floodplain; description of the
variance sought; and reason for the variance request.
      (3)   All applications for a variance shall be accompanied by a variance
application fee set in the schedule of fees adopted by the village.
   (B)   Public hearing. At such hearing the applicant shall present such
statements and evidence as the Appeals Board requires. In considering such
variance applications, the Appeals Board shall consider and make findings of
fact on all evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified in other
sections of these regulations and the following factors:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others.
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage.
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community.
      (5)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use that
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage.
      (6)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable.
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development.
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area.
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles.
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site.
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (C)   (1)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause.
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship due to the physical characteristics of the property.
Increased cost or inconvenience of meeting the requirements of these
regulations does not constitute an exceptional hardship to the applicant.
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights beyond that which is allowed in these regulations;
additional threats to public safety; extraordinary public expense, nuisances,
fraud on or victimization of the public, or conflict with existing local laws.
         (d)   A determination that the structure or other development is
protected by methods to minimize flood damages.
         (e)   A determination that the variance is the minimum necessary,
considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
      (2)   Upon consideration of the above factors and the purposes of these
regulations, the Appeals Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances, as it deems necessary to further the purposes of these regulations.
   (D)   Other conditions for variances.
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      (2)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level, providing items in division (B)(1) to (11) of this
section have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond one-half
acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
      (3)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with a lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation and the cost of flood insurance will
be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest floor
elevation.
(Ord. 2009-40, passed 6-17-09)
§ 154.64 PROCEDURE AT HEARINGS.
   (A)   All testimony shall be given under oath.
   (B)   A complete record of the proceedings shall be kept, except
confidential deliberations of the Board, but including all documents presented
and a verbatim record of the testimony of all witnesses.
   (C)   The applicant shall proceed first to present evidence and testimony in
support of the appeal or variance.
   (D)   The administrator may present evidence or testimony in opposition to
the appeal or variance.
   (E)   All witnesses shall be subject to cross-examination by the adverse
party or their counsel.
   (F)   Evidence that is not admitted may be proffered and shall become part
of the record for appeal.
   (G)   The Board shall issue subpoenas upon written request for the
attendance of witnesses. A reasonable deposit to cover the cost of issuance and
service shall be collected in advance.
   (H)   The Board shall prepare conclusions of fact supporting its decision.
The decision may be announced at the conclusion of the hearing and thereafter
issued in writing or the decision may be issued in writing within a reasonable
time after the hearing.
(Ord. 2009-40, passed 6-17-09)
§ 154.65 APPEAL TO THE COURT.
   Those aggrieved by the decision of the Appeals Board may appeal such
decision to the Summit County Court of Common Pleas, as provided in R.C.
Chapter 2506.
(Ord. 2009-40, passed 6-17-09)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 154.80 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, erected, constructed,
reconstructed, repaired, extended, converted, enlarged or altered without full
compliance with the terms of these regulations and all other applicable
regulations which apply to uses within the jurisdiction of these regulations,
unless specifically exempted from filing for a development permit as stated in
§
154.28.
   (B)   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit shall be a violation
of these regulations and shall be punishable in accordance with §
154.99.
   (C)   Floodplain development permits issued on the basis of plans and
applications approved by the Floodplain Administrator authorize only the use,
and arrangement, set forth in such approved plans and applications or
amendments thereto. Use, arrangement, or construction contrary to that
authorized shall be deemed a violation of these regulations and punishable in
accordance with §
154.99.
(Ord. 2009-40, passed 6-17-09)
§ 154.81 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Whenever the Floodplain Administrator determines that there has been a
violation of any provision of these regulations, he or she shall give notice of
such violation to the person responsible therefore and order compliance with
these regulations as hereinafter provided. Such notice and order shall:
   (A)   Be put in writing on an appropriate form;
   (B)   Include a list of violations, referring to the section or sections of
these regulations that have been violated, and order remedial action, which, if
taken, will effect compliance with the provisions of these regulations;
   (C)   Specify a reasonable time for performance;
   (D)   Advise the owner, operator, or occupant of the right to appeal; and
   (E)   Be served on the owner, occupant, or agent in person. However, this
notice and order shall be deemed to be properly served upon the owner,
occupant, or agent if a copy thereof is sent by registered or certified mail to
the person's last known mailing address, residence, or place of business, and/
or a copy is posted in a conspicuous place in or on the dwelling affected.
(Ord. 2009-40, passed 6-17-09)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of these regulations or failure to comply with
any of its requirements shall be deemed to be a strict liability offense, and
shall constitute a fourth degree misdemeanor. Any person who violates these
regulations or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall upon
conviction thereof be fined or imprisoned as provided by the laws of the
village. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the village from taking such
other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. The
village shall prosecute any violation of these regulations in accordance with
the penalties stated herein.
(Ord. 2009-40, passed 6-17-09)
REFERENCES TO '75 GENERAL OFFENSES CODE
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   AGREEMENTS
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS
      
III.   VACATIONS
      
IV.   COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT AREA
      
V.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.      Date Passed Description
                          Authorizing the County Council of Summit County and
31-1988       8-17-88     the Commissioners of Portage County to designate the
                          village as an enterprise zone.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
Res. 18-1993  4-21-93     into an agreement with the City of Akron for water
                          service.
                          Consenting to and authorizing the Village Council to
19-1993       4-21-93     enter into an agreement with FMP, Inc., in accordance
                          with the enterprise zone requirements set forth in
                          state law.
                          Consenting to and authorizing the Village Council to
20-1993       4-21-93     enter into an agreement with Vertex, Inc., in
                          accordance with the enterprise zone requirements set
                          forth in state law.
                          Consenting to and authorizing the Village Council to
55-1993       10-27-93    enter into an agreement with TRW, Inc., in accordance
                          with the enterprise zone requirements set forth in
                          state law.
                          Authorizing and directing the Mayor and Clerk-
Res. 61-1993  12-15-93    Treasurer to enter into an agreement with the City of
                          Tallmadge for the provision of certain telephone and
                          radio services.
                          Consenting to and authorizing the Village Council to
12-1994       3-2-94      enter into an agreement with Polymer Products, Inc.,
                          in accordance with the enterprise zone requirements
                          set forth in state law.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer of the
17            4-7-99      village to enter into an agreement with the Board of
                          Education of the Mogadore Local School District for
                          the purchase of certain real property.
                          Authorizing the termination of an agreement with
20            4-28-99     Gilchrist Kustom Molders, Inc. as authorized by Ord.
                          57- 1991.
                          Authorizing the termination of an agreement with
21            4-28-99     Premier Plastic Recyclers, Inc. as authorized by
                          Ords. 44-1994 and 13-1995.
                          Amending an agreement between The Polymer Corporation
22            4-28-99     and the village by changing the name of the
                          corporation to DSM Engineering Plastic Products, Inc.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
33            6-2-99      into a lease agreement with the Mogadore Lions Club
                          No. 300 for the use of certain real estate for park
                          and recreation purposes.
                          Authorizing an agreement between the village and
63            11-1-00     Northeast Ohio Public Energy Council to establish and
                          implement the Aggregation Program as authorized by
                          Ord. 44-00.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
31            6-20-01     into an agreement with FirstEnergy Services to
                          provide retail electric services.
                          Authorizing and directing the Mayor and Clerk-
Res. 13       5-2-07      Treasurer to enter into an agreement with Summit
                          County, Ohio to provide inspection and enforcement of
                          the Ohio Building Code.
                          Authorizing and directing the Mayor and Clerk-
                          Treasurer to enter into an amendment to the master
Res. 2012-2   1-18-12     agreement with Vectren Retail, LLC to sell
                          competitive retail natural gas service with opt out
                          provisions for residents and businesses within the
                          village.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
Res. 2012-5   2-1-12      into an agreement with Gledhill Road Machinery for
                          the purchase of a 10 foot snowplow and plow float
                          system for use by the Street Department.
                          Authorizing and directing the Mayor and Clerk-
                          Treasurer to enter into an agreement with US
Res. 2012-6   2-1-12      Illuminations for the energy efficient lighting
                          upgrade and rebate program for various village
                          buildings.
                          Authorizing and directing the Mayor and Clerk-
                          Treasurer to enter into a partnership agreement for
Res. 2012-7   2-15-12     application by Summit County and other public
                          entities to the State of Ohio for $100,000 in grant
                          funds.
                          Authorizing and directing the Mayor and Clerk-
Res. 2012-9   2-15-12     Treasurer to enter into an agreement with Summit
                          County for the construction of a municipally financed
                          sanitary sewer.
                          Authorizing and directing the Mayor and Clerk-
Res. 2012-14  3-7-12      Treasurer to enter into an agreement of cooperation
                          with ODOT for the purpose of granting consent to
                          complete the resurfacing of Mogadore Road.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
Res. 2012-15  3-7-12      into an agreement with Time Warner Cable for updating
                          the internet service and equipment for general use of
                          the village departments.
                          Authorizing and directing the Mayor and Clerk-
Res. 2012-16  3-7-12      Treasurer to enter into an automated clearing house
                          and electronic data interchange agreement with First
                          Merit Bank, N.A.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
Res. 2012-24  4-4-12      into an agreement with Cintas Corporation for uniform
                          rental services for the village.
                          Authorizing and directing the Mayor and Clerk-
Res. 2012-28  4-4-12      Treasurer to enter into a lease agreement with Joseph
                          Skye for parking spaces at the municipal parking lot
                          on Mogadore Road.
                          Authorizing and directing the Mayor and Clerk-
Res. 2012-33  4-18-12     Treasurer to enter into an agreement with the
                          Regional Income Tax Agency s legal program.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
Res. 2012-43  5-16-12     into an agreement of cooperation with ODOT for the
                          purpose of granting consent to complete the Mogadore
                          Road resurfacing project.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
Res. 2012-50  7-5-12      into an agreement with Findley Fire Equipment for the
                          purchase of large diameter fire hose for use by the
                          Fire Department.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
Res. 2012-53  8-1-12      into an agreement with Summit County through the
                          Juvenile Court.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
Res. 2012-55  8-1-12      into an agreement with King Painting for the painting
                          of the Fire Department apparatus room, outside
                          fascia, and overhead doors.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
Res. 2012-67  9-19-12     into an agreement with Best PC Professionals, LLC to
                          provide server and hardware maintenance coverage for
                          the village.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
Res. 2012-69  9-19-12     into an agreement with ODOT for the sale of property
                          to the state for a highway project.
                          Authorizing and directing the Mayor and Clerk-
Res. 2012-71  11-7-12     Treasurer to enter into an amended lease agreement
                          with Joseph Skye for parking spaces at the municipal
                          parking lot on Mogadore Road.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
                          into an agreement with Miller Builders for supplying
Res. 2012-75  11-7-12     labor and materials necessary for the construction of
                          a roofing system for the salt bin at the Street
                          Department.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
Res. 2013-7   2-7-13      into an amended consortium agreement with Robinson
                          Health Affiliates, Inc. and the members of the
                          Portage County Drug and Alcohol Testing Consortium.
Res. 2013-9   2-7-13      Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement with
                          the Summit County Public Defender s Commission.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
Res. 2013-11  2-7-13      into a managed services agreement with Blue
                          Technologies, Inc. to provide server and hardware
                          maintenance coverage for the village.
                          Authorizing and directing the Mayor and Clerk-
Res. 2013-13  2-20-13     Treasurer to enter into an amended agreement with the
                          City of Akron for water services.
                          Authorizing and directing the Mayor and Clerk-
Res. 2013-14  2-20-13     Treasurer to enter into a joint economic development
                          zone agreement with the City of Akron.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
Res. 2013-18  2-20-13     into an agreement with the Village of Lakemore, Ohio
                          for the purchase of a 2001 Dodge truck with snow plow
                          and salt spreader for use by the Fire Department.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
Res. 2013-22  3-6-13      into an agreement with Park Ford for the purchase of
                          a Ford Interceptor Taurus for use by the Police
                          Department.
                          Authorizing and directing the Mayor and Clerk-
Res. 2013-37  4-17-13     Treasurer to enter into an agreement with Summit
                          County for the construction of a municipally financed
                          sanitary sewer.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
                          into an agreement with Comp Management, Inc. to act
Res. 2013-52  7-2-13      as the village employer representative before the
                          Ohio Bureau of Workers Compensation and the Ohio
                          Industrial Commission.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
Res. 2013-53  7-2-13      into an agreement with Summit County through the
                          Juvenile Court.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
Res. 2013-55  7-2-13      into an agreement with Cementech, Inc. for supplying
                          labor and materials necessary for the construction of
                          the Randolph Road storm water sewer project.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
Res. 2013-57  7-17-13     into an agreement with Jack Doheny Company for the
                          purchase of an American Road Machinery leaf collector
                          for use by the Street Department.
                          Authorizing and directing the Mayor and Clerk-
                          Treasurer to enter into an agreement with Ray
Res. 2013-62  8-7-13      Bertolini Trucking Co. to perform an asbestos
                          inspection and demolish the building located at 3330
                          Herbert Street.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
Res. 2013-70  8-7-13      into a one year extension of the non-exclusive
                          agreement to provide for a solid waste/trash
                          aggregation program for the village.
                          Authorizing and directing the Mayor and Clerk-
Res. 2013-72  9-4-13      Treasurer to enter into an agreement with Armada
                          Group, Inc. to provide networked communication and
                          data sharing for the Police Department.
                          Authorizing and directing the Mayor and Clerk-
                          Treasurer to enter into an agreement with
Res. 2013-77  11-6-13     Constellation Energy Gas Choice, Inc. to sell
                          competitive retail natural gas service with opt out
                          provisions for residents and businesses within the
                          village.
                          Authorizing and directing the Mayor and Clerk-
Res. 2013-80  11-20-13    Treasurer to enter into an agreement with Varney,
                          Fink & Associates, Inc. to assist with the transition
                          of the Clerk-Treasurer/Fiscal Officer position.
                          Authorizing and directing the Mayor and Clerk-
Res. 2013-81  12-4-13     Treasurer to enter into an agreement with Summit
                          County Combined General Health District to provide
                          storm water management services.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
Res. 2013-84  12-18-13    into an agreement with Summit County Legal Defenders
                          Office.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to execute
Res. 2014-4   1-22-14     the Summit County Political Subdivision Participation
                          Agreement for health insurance.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
Res. 2014-12  4-2-14      into an agreement with Park Ford for the purchase of
                          a 2015 Ford Interceptor SUV for use by the Police
                          Department.
                          Authorizing and directing the Mayor and Clerk-
                          Treasurer to enter into an agreement with the City of
Res. 2014-19  4-16-14     Stow to amend the telecommunications service
                          agreement previously entered into on or about July
                          28, 2008.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
                          into an agreement with Allwood Structures for
Res. 2014-20  4-16-14     supplying labor and materials necessary for the
                          construction of a storage building at the Street
                          Department.
                          Authorizing and directing the Mayor and Clerk-
2014-25       6-4-14      Treasurer to enter into a business associate
                          agreement with IPad Mobile Solutions LLC to comply
                          with HIPPA and HITECH rules.
                          Authorizing and directing the Mayor and Clerk-
2014-26       6-4-14      Treasurer to enter into a business associate
                          agreement with Life Force Management, Inc. to comply
                          with HIPPA and HITECH rules.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
2014-28       6-4-14      into a one year extension of the non-exclusive
                          agreement with Republic Waste to provide for a solid
                          waste/trash aggregation program for the village.
                          Authorizing and directing the Mayor and Clerk-
Res. 2014-30  7-2-14      Treasurer to enter into an ancillary provider
                          agreement with Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield.
                          Authorizing and directing the Mayor and Clerk-
Res. 2014-58  9-17-14     Treasurer to enter into an amended agreement of
                          cooperation with Summit County for the Community
                          Development Block Grant Program.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
2014-61       10-1-14     into an agreement with Summit County through the
                          Juvenile Court.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
Res. 2014-69  11-5-14     into an agreement with Summit County Legal Defenders
                          Office.
                          Authorizing and directing the Mayor and Clerk-
Res. 2014-75  12-17-14    Treasurer to enter into a mutual aid agreement with
                          Summit County for the sheriff office s SWAT Team.
                          Authorizing and directing the Mayor and Clerk-
Res. 2015-8   1-21-15     Treasurer to enter into an agreement for the boarding
                          of prisoners between the City of Barberton and the
                          village.
                          Authorizing and directing the Mayor and Clerk-
Res. 2015-9   1-21-15     Treasurer to enter into an agreement for the boarding
                          of prisoners between the City of Cuyahoga Falls and
                          the village.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
Res. 2015-25  5-6-15      into an agreement with Penn Care for the purchase of
                          a 2016 Liberty Dodge Ram 4500 Chassis for use by the
                          Fire Department.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
Res. 2015-26  5-6-15      into a one year extension of the non-exclusive
                          agreement with Republic Waste to provide for a solid
                          waste/trash aggregation program for the village.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
Res. 2015-30  6-3-15      into an agreement with Park Ford for the purchase of
                          a 2016 Ford Explorer for use by the Fire Department.
                          Authorizing and directing the Mayor and Clerk-
Res. 2015-42  9-16-15     Treasurer to execute the intergovernmental agreement
                          for animal control services between the village and
                          Summit County.
                          Authorizing and directing the Mayor and Clerk-
                          Treasurer to enter into an agreement with
Res. 2015-53  11-18-15    Constellation Energy Services-Natural Gas, LLC to
                          continue beyond March 31, 2016, when the current
                          supply agreement terminates.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
Res. 2015-54  12-2-15     into an agreement with Summit County Legal Defenders
                          Office.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
                          into a three year extension of the current non-
Res. 2016-20  3-2-16      exclusive aggregation agreement with Republic Waste
                          to provide solid waste, trash and recycling services
                          for the village.
                          Authorizing and directing the Mayor and Clerk-
                          Treasurer to enter into an accounting services
Res. 2016-21  3-2-16      agreement with Varney, Fink & Associates, Inc. to
                          assist with budgetary, payroll and other financial
                          issues on behalf of the village.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
Res. 2016-42  5-4-16      into an agreement with Miner s Tractor Sales for the
                          purchase of a new Holland B95C Backhoe for use by the
                          Street Department.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
Res. 2016-49  6-15-16     into a lease agreement with Omnova Solutions, Inc.
                          for purposes of maintaining certain open space.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
Res. 2016-52  7-6-16      into an agreement with Park Ford for the purchase of
                          a 2016 F250 SRW 4x4 Super Duty Pick Up for use by the
                          Fire Department.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
Res. 2016-69  9-7-16      into an agreement with Summit County Legal Defenders
                          Office.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to execute
Res. 2016-77  11-16-16    the Summit County Political Subdivision participation
                          agreement for health insurance.
                          Authorizing and directing the Mayor and Clerk-
Res. 2016-87  12-21-16    Treasurer to enter into an automatic aid agreement
                          with the City of Akron regarding fire services and
                          emergency medical services.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
Res. 2017-5   2-1-17      into an agreement for the purchase of a 2017 Ford
                          Interceptor SUV for use by the Police Department.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
Res. 2017-20  3-1-17      into a contract for supplying a filtration system for
                          the garage for the Fire Department.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
Res. 2017-35  5-3-17      into an agreement for the purchase of hand-held
                          radios for use by the Fire Department and Street
                          Department.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
Res. 2017-53  8-23-17     into a contract for supplying labor and materials for
                          the Cleveland Avenue waterline project.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
Res. 2017-54  8-23-17     into an amendment to the lease agreement with OMNOVA
                          Solutions for maintaining open space.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
Res. 2017-63  11-1-17     into an agreement with FirstEnergy Solutions Corp. to
                          provide electricity aggregation.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
                          into a contract for legal services for the
Res. 2017-65  11-15-17    investigation, litigation or negotiation for
                          settlement of claims related to marketing,
                          prescribing, distribution or sale of opioids.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an accounting
Res. 2017-71  12-6-17     services agreement with Varney, Fink and Associates,
                          Inc. to carry out all responsibilities for the
                          position of Village Clerk Treasurer.
                          Extending the terms contained in the current
Res. 2017-75  12-20-17    collective bargaining agreement between the village
                          and the Ohio Patrolmen s Benevolent Association.
Res. 2017-77  12-20-17    Approving an agreement between the village and the
                          legal defender s office of Summit County.
                          Directing the Mayor to execute a supply agreement
2017-78       12-20-17    with Constellation Energy Services to continue a
                          natural gas aggregation program.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement/
2018-48       6-20-18     lease with NEO Net regarding a phone systems upgrade
                          and IT/technology services.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement
Res. 2018-49  6-20-18     regarding the acquisition, installation and operation
                          of a consolidated computer aided dispatch system.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement with
2018-58       8-1-18      Adorni s Service Center regarding leasing of two
                          parking spots along the establishment of $40
                          administrative fee.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement with
Res. 2018-59  8-1-18      Summit County regarding services of police diversion
                          youth division for juveniles.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement with
Res. 2018-61  8-1-18      the City of Akron regarding prosecutorial services
                          relating to certain criminal and traffic cases.
                          Intergovernmental agreement by and between the Summit
2018-81       10-17-18    County Combined General Health District and the
                          village for the provision of public health services.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a one year
Res. 2018-92  12-5-18     extension agreement with Summit County Combined
                          General Health District.
                          Authorizing the village to enter into a change order
Res. 2019-6   1-16-19     to the contract with Cementech, Incorporated, an
                          independent contractor.
                          Authorizing all actions necessary to support the
                          continuation of a governmental natural gas
                          aggregation program with opt-out provisions pursuant
2019-7        1-16-19     to O.R.C. 4929.26, authorizing the Mayor to extend
                          the supply agreement with Constellation Energy
                          Services to continue a natural gas aggregation
                          program beyond March 31, 2020 when the current supply
                          agreement ends.
Res. 2019-10  2-6-19      Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement with
                          Summit County Combined General Health District.
                          Retroactively authorizing the Mayor of the village to
Res. 2019-13  2-6-19      enter into an agreement for the County of Summit-
                          Akron Regional Radio System.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and/or Police Chief to enter
Res. 2019-14  2-6-19      into a memorandum of understanding with the City of
                          Tallmadge regarding its K-9 Program and to authorize
                          payment regarding the same.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement with
Res. 2019-15  2-20-19     Ohio Billing, Inc. regarding the Mogadore Fire
                          Department s emergency medical services, billing
                          services.
                          Authorizing and directing the Mayor and/or Clerk/
Res. 2019-18  2-20-19     Treasurer to amend the contract previously entered
                          into with the Ohio Patrolmen s Benevolent Association
                          by entering a memorandum of understanding.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement with
Res. 2019-27  3-6-19      Dicaudo, Pitchford & Yoder regarding the collection
                          of Mogadore s emergency medical services past due
                          billings.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement with
Res. 2019-32  4-3-19   ESO Solutions regarding the acquisition, installation
                          and operation of EMS software.
Res. 2019-42  6-5-19      Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a construction
                          agreement with Testa Mogadore, LLC.
                          Authorizing and directing the Mayor and/or Clerk/
                          Treasurer to retroactively amend the contract
Res. 2019-46  6-5-19      previously entered into with the Ohio Patrolmen s
                          Benevolent Association by entering a memorandum of
                          understanding.
Res. 2019-64  7-17-19     Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement with
                          Ohio Department of Public Safety.
                          Resolution and order accepting the bid and
                          authorizing the Mayor and Clerk-Treasurer to enter
Res. 2019-67  7-17-19     into a contract for supplying labor and materials
                          necessary for the village Prospect Street
                          Infrastructure Improvements Project.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Fiscal Officer to enter
Res. 2019-70  8-7-19      into an agreement with and pay American Legal
                          Publishing for preparation of updates and online
                          service for village codified ordinance.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement with
Res. 2019-76  9-4-19   Summit County regarding services of Police Diversion
                          Youth Division for Juveniles.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
Res. 2019-95  12-4-19     into an agreement for the leasing of copier equipment
                          for general use of the village departments.
Res. 2019-97  12-4-19     Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with
                          the Summit County public defender s office for 2020.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a one year
Res. 2019-103 12-18-19    extension agreement with Summit County combined
                          General Health District (Summit County Public
                          Health).
                          Authorizing all actions necessary to support the
                          continuation of a governmental natural gas
                          aggregation program with opt-out provisions pursuant
2019-105      12-18-19    to R.C. 4929.26, authorizing the Mayor to execute a
                          supply agreement with Constellation Newenergy - Gas
                          Division, LLC to continue a natural gas aggregation
                          program beyond April 2020 when the current supply
                          agreement ends.
                          Appointing Scott K. Varney as the Clerk Treasurer of
                          the village and authorizing and directing the Mayor
Res. 2019-109 12-18-19    to enter into an accounting services agreement with
                          Varney, Fink & Associates, Inc. to carry out all
                          responsibilities for the position of Village Clerk
                          Treasurer.
                          Authorizes the Mayor to enter into an agreement with
Res. 2020-17  2-19-20     Govdeals, Inc. and/or other substantially similar
                          entities and execution of all other necessary
                          paperwork for the purpose of selling goods.
Res. 2020-19  3-4-20      Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement with
                          Mogadore Local School District.
Res. 2020-30  4-22-20     Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a master lease
                          agreement with Huntington Public Capital Corporation.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
Res. 2020-44  7-1-20      into a contract for supplying labor and materials
                          necessary for the Sunrise Boulevard infrastructure
                          improvements project.
Res. 2020-55  8-19-20     Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement with
                          Summit County regarding animal control services.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement with
Res. 2020-56  9-2-20      Summit County regarding services of Police Diversion
                          Youth Division for Juveniles.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement with
Res. 2020-61  9-2-20      Roetzel Consulting Solutions regarding economic
                          development and intergovernmental relations
                          consulting services.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement with
Res. 2020-69  12-2-20     Kimble Recycling & Disposal, Inc. for the exclusive
                          right to provide trash hauling with the village.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a purchase
Res. 2020-85  12-2-20     agreement with Sutphen Corporation regarding the
                          purchase of Sutphen Fire Apparatus/Pumper.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
Res. 2020-86  12-2-20     into a contract for labor and materials for a
                          generator to power the police station, fire station
                          and administrative offices.
Res. 2020-87  12-2-20     Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with
                          the Summit County Public Defender s Office for 2021.
                          Authorizing and directing the Mayor and Clerk/
Res. 2020-89  12-2-20     Treasurer to enter into a contract with the Ohio
                          Patrolmen s Benevolent Association.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement with
Res. 2021-4   1-6-21      Summit County Service Department Response Network to
                          share resources and assist each other in the event of
                          emergencies.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement with
Res. 2021-5   1-20-21     the Summit County Combined General Health District to
                          provide storm water management services.
                          Authorizing and directing the Mayor and Clerk-
2021-16       3-3-21      Treasurer to enter into an agreement with Energy
                          Harbor to provide electricity aggregation for
                          residents and businesses within the village.
Res. 2021-31  6-2-21      Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement/
                          lease with NEOnet regarding IT/technology services.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to retroactively enter into an
Res. 2021-32  6-2-21      agreement with the City of Akron regarding
                          prosecutorial services relating to certain criminal
                          and traffic cases.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
Res. 2021-37  7-7-21      into a contract for supplying labor and materials
                          necessary for the Hebert Street and Fenton Avenue
                          infrastructure improvements project.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract
2021-40       8-4-21      extension of the village s lease with Adorni s
                          Service Center for two parking spots.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement with
Res. 2021-48  9-1-21      Summit County regarding services of police diversion
                          youth division for juveniles.
                          Authorizing the execution of a development agreement
2021-62       12-29-21    between the village and Testa Mogadore, LLC
                          concerning the development of certain real property
                          located in the village.
                          Authorizing the village to enter into a change order
Res. 2022-7   1-5-22      to the contract with Cementech, Incorporated, on the
                          Fenton Avenue Infrastructure Improvement Project.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter an agreement with
Res. 2022-13  2-2-22      Govdeals, Inc. for the purpose of selling unneeded,
                          obsolete personal property.
                          Approving and authorizing an agreement with Summit
Res. 2022-26  3-16-22     County to accept the community development block
                          grant for the reconstruction of the Lions Park Pickle
                          Ball Courts.
                          Authorizing and directing the Mayor to purchase real
Res. 2022-30  4-6-22      property belonging to Michael F. Johnson and Vickie
                          Lynn Johnson.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter an agreement to
Res. 2022-37  5-4-22      purchase the Mogadore Lions Community Park, 194 Hale
                          Street.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
Res. 2022-44  6-15-22     into a contract for supplying labor and materials
                          necessary for the 2022 Chip and Seal Repairs Project.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
                          into a contract for supplying labor and materials
Res. 2022-45  6-15-22     necessary for the Sunrise East Boulevard, West
                          Avenue, and Pearl Avenue Infrastructure Improvements
                          Project.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into several
Res. 2022-47  6-15-22     agreement/leases with NEONet regarding IT/technology
                          services.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
Res. 2022-53  8-3-22      into a contract for labor and materials for the Lions
                          Park Pickle Ball Court Reconstruction Project.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement with
Res. 2022-55  9-7-22      Summit County regarding services of police diversion
                          youth division for juveniles.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and/or designee to enter into a
Res. 2022-64  10-19-22    change order with Cementech, Inc. for the Lions Park
                          Pickle Ball Court Reconstruction Project.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and/or Police Chief to enter
                          into information exchange agreements regarding the
Res. 2022-71  11-2-22     sharing of criminal justice information for the
                          purposes of compliance with regulations surrounding
                          the Law Enforcement Automated Data System (LEADS).
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to execute
Res. 2022-76  12-7-22     on behalf of the village a contract for the internet
                          auction of unfit personal property.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement to
Res. 2022-84  12-7-22     purchase a new medial unit/ambulance for use by the
                          Fire Department/EMS.
                          Authorizing and directing the Mayor to amend the
Res. 2022-89  12-21-22    contract previously entered into with the Ohio
                          Patrolmen s Benevolent Association by entering a
                          memorandum of understanding.
                          Authorizing an agreement to provide legal services
Res. 2022-95  12-21-22    for the village and confirm the appointment of Jason
                          D. Dodson as Law Director.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement with
Res. 2022-96  12-21-22    Taylor Companies of Ohio for repairs to the Pry
                          Community Center.
Res. 2023-12  2-1-23      Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement with
                          Brown Equipment Company to purchase a street sweeper.
                          Authorizing the village to enter into an agreement
Res. 2023-18  2-1-23      with the County of Summit to accept community
                          development block grant funds for repairs.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with
2023-19       3-1-23      the Summit County Public Defender s Commission for
                          calendar year 2023.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
Res. 2023-25  3-15-23     into a construction contract with Geauga Highway
                          Company to provide labor and materials.
Res. 2023-32  4-19-23     Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement with
                          Statewide Ford Lincoln to purchase a vehicle.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk-Treasurer to enter
Res. 2023-38  6-7-23      into a contract with Cementech, Inc. to supply labor
                          and materials.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to execute a management control
                          agreement with the Summit Area Regional Council of
Res. 2023-49  7-19-23     Governments as the operator of the Summit Emergency
                          Communications Center for access to the Law
                          Enforcement Automated Data System.
Res. 2023-51  7-19-23     Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement with
                          Fairway Ford to purchase a vehicle.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk-Treasurer to enter
Res. 2023-58  8-16-23     into a construction contract with Mc. B Paving, LLC
                          to provide labor and materials.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk-Treasurer to enter
Res. 2023-67  9-20-23     into a construction contract with McMahon Masonry
                          Restoration Ltd. to provide labor and materials.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement with
2023-68       9-20-23     Wright Heating and Air Conditioning, Inc. for labor
                          and materials.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement with
2023-71       10-4-23     the Summit Area Regional Council of Governments for
                          emergency dispatch services.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement with
Res. 2023-72  10-4-23     Kimble Recycling & Disposal, Inc. for exclusive trash
                          hauling services within the village.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to execute an amendment to the
2023-76       11-1-23     gas supply master services agreement with
                          Constellation Energy Services.
                          Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute an
Res. 2023-87  12-6-23     agreement with Buckeye Energy Brokers, Inc. to
                          provide opt-out electricity aggregation services for
                          residents and businesses within the village.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract with the
Res. 2023-89  12-6-23     Summit County Public Defender s Commission for
                          calendar year 2024.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to execute a collective
Res. 2023-97  12-20-23    bargaining agreement with the Ohio Patrolmen s
                          Benevolent Association for full-time patrolmen and
                          sergeants employed by the village.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with
Res. 2023-98  12-20-23    Roetzel & Andress, LPA to provide legal services for
                          the village.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with
Res. 2023-99  12-20-23    Varney, Fink & Associates, Inc. to provide accounting
                          services for the village.
                          Authorizing the execution of an amended and restated
Res. 2024-18  3-6-24      development agreement between the village and Testa
                          Mogadore, LLC concerning the development of certain
                          real property located in the village.
Res. 2024-19  3-6-24      Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement with
                          Ken Ganley Ford to purchase a vehicle.
Res. 2024-23  4-3-24      Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement with
                          Penn Care, Inc. to purchase a vehicle.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
Res. 2024-24  4-3-24      into a construction contract with Phillips Paving,
                          LLC to provide labor and materials.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement with
Res. 2024-32  5-1-24      Summit County Animal Control for the payment of
                          surrender fees associated with the surrender of feral
                          cats from the village.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement with
Res. 2024-36  5-15-24     Parkplay Solutions, LLC to purchase playground
                          equipment.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an engineering
Res. 2024-37  7-2-24      services agreement with GDP Group for design of a new
                          traffic signal.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
Res. 2024-41  6-18-24     into a contract with Cementech, Inc. for supplying
                          labor and materials.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a grant agreement
2024-47       7-2-24      with the Mogadore Athletic Booster Association, Inc.
                          for a grant.
Res. 2024-57  8-21-24     Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement with
                          Montrose Ford to purchase a vehicle.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to renew the agreement with
Res. 2024-60  9-18-24     Kimble Recycling & Disposal, Inc. for exclusive trash
                          hauling services within the village.
                          Authorizing the Mayor, Clerk-Treasurer and Village
Res. 2024-61  9-18-24     Engineer to execute agreements for the Lincoln Avenue
                          and Etter Road Project.
                          Authorizing the Mayor and Clerk- Treasurer to enter
Res. 2024-63  9-18-24     into a construction contract with Mc. B Paving, LLC
                          to provide labor and materials.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a grant agreement
2024-71       11-6-24     with the Mogadore Athletic Booster Association, Inc.
                          for a grant.
2024-88       12-4-24     Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a grant agreement
                          with the Mogadore Historical Society for a grant.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to execute a first renewal to
Res. 2024-94  12-18-24    Summit County-Akron Regional Radio System user
                          agreement to extend the term of the same until April
                          30, 2029.
                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement with
Res. 2024-95  12-18-24    Varney, Fink & Associates, Inc. to provide accounting
                          services for the village.
                         
 
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
                         Consenting to and accepting a petition from Walter M.
14-1990      2-21-90     Douglas for the annexation of 8.415 acres located in
                         Suffield Township, County of Portage, to the village.
Res. 2019-26 3-6-19      Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an annexation
                         agreement with Suffield Township.
                        
 
 
TABLE III: VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
22-1996  5-1-96      Vacating Pero Street.
45       10-21-98    Vacating Circle Street. No utility or railway easements
                     shall exist or remain within the boundaries of the street.
2017-57  10-4-17     Vacating the unimproved right-of-way known as Dick Street.
2021-57  10-20-21    Vacating Herbert Street within the municipal limits of
                     Mogadore.
2022-16  2-2-22      Vacating a portion of the Dick Street right- of-way.
2023-40  6-7-23      Vacating Pero Street within the municipal limits of
                     Mogadore.
2023-53  8-2-23      Vacating Spring Street and Mill Street within the
                     municipal limits of Mogadore.
                    
 
 
TABLE IV: COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT AREA
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Establishing a community reinvestment area being the
                     entirety of the Village of Mogadore, Ohio, and with all
16-87    4-1-87      zoning classification: designating housing offices to
                     administer such community reinvestment area housing
                     council.
                    
 
 
TABLE V: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Granting a cable television franchise to Time Warner Cable
50       1-6-99      to construct, operate and maintain a cable television
                     system in the village.
                    
 
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
History References to Revised Code of Ohio
References to Ordinances
References to Resolutions
HISTORY REFERENCES TO REVISED CODE OF OHIO
Editor's note:
This table lists those Ohio Revised Code sections which have been substantially
duplicated by corresponding Code of Ordinance sections. All legislative history
references to “(R.C. § xx.xx)” which appear at the end of sections (or
divisions of sections) in the village's Code of Ordinances have been listed
here. Example: to determine which section of the Code of Ordinances is based on
R.C. § 4511.19, scan down this table to the citation for “4511.19” and examine
the entry across from it: in this case, the corresponding Code of Ordinances
section is § 73.01, which means that § 73.01 (or a part thereof) is based
directly on R.C. § 4511.19.
R.C. Section Code Section
R.C. Section                              Code Section
1.01                                      10.01
1.02                                      10.02
1.05                                      10.02,
                                          10.03
1.14                                      10.03
1.15                                      10.03
1.23                                      10.05
1.42                                      10.03
1.43                                      10.03
1.44                                      10.02
1.45                                      10.03
1.46                                      10.03
1.50                                      10.07
1.54                                      10.04
1.57                                      10.04
1.58                                      10.04
1.59                                      10.02
128.01(A)                                 136.20
128.96(F)-(H)                             136.20
128.99(A), (B)                            136.20
701.01                                    10.02
715.67                                    130.99
733.68                                    30.02
733.70                                    30.04
733.71                                    30.05
901.51                                    131.21
901.99(A)                                 131.21
925.62                                    90.34
925.99(B)                                 90.34
951.02                                    90.01
951.10                                    90.01
951.11                                    90.02
951.12                                    90.03
951.13                                    90.04
951.99                                    90.01
955.011                                   90.032
955.10                                    90.27
955.11                                    90.28,
                                          90.32
955.21                                    90.29
955.22                                    90.01
955.222                                   90.01
955.24                                    90.30
955.25                                    90.31
955.26                                    90.05
955.28(A)                                 90.07
955.39                                    90.05
955.43                                    90.32
955.50                                    90.33
955.54                                    90.38
955.99(A)                                 90.28
                                          90.27,
955.99(B)                                 90.30,
                                          90.31
955.99(C)                                 90.05,
                                          90.33
955.99(E)                                 90.29
955.99(E) - (H), (J), (L) - (N), (P), (Q) 90.01
955.99(O)                                 90.38
959.01                                    90.20
959.02                                    90.21
959.03                                    90.22
959.04                                    90.21,
                                          90.22
959.13                                    90.23
959.131                                   90.23
959.15                                    90.24
959.17                                    90.25
959.21                                    90.39
959.99(B)                                 90.21
                                          90.22,
959.99(C)                                 90.24,
                                          90.25 
959.99(D)                                 90.39
959.99(D), (E)                            90.23
959.99(E)(3)                              90.20
959.99(E)(7)                              90.39
959.99(I)                                 90.24
1349.17                                   131.30
1349.99                                   131.30
1533.161                                  90.35
1533.171                                  135.05
1533.171(A)                               131.24
1533.99(B)                                90.35
1533.99(C)                                131.24,
                                          135.05
1905.01                                   33.01
1905.05                                   33.04
1905.20                                   33.02
1905.21                                   33.03
2744.01                                   36.01
2744.02                                   36.02
2744.03                                   36.03
2744.04(A)                                36.04
2744.06(A)                                36.05
2744.07                                   36.06
2744.08                                   36.07
2744.09                                   36.08
2901.01                                   130.02
2901.02                                   130.03
2901.03                                   130.04
2901.04                                   130.05
2901.05                                   130.13
2901.06                                   130.14
2901.08                                   130.15
2901.09                                   130.21
2901.11                                   130.16
2901.13                                   130.06
2901.21                                   130.07
2901.22                                   130.08
2901.23                                   130.09
2901.24                                   130.10
2903.05                                   135.02
2903.06                                   135.03
2903.08(A)(3), (C)(3), (D)(3), (E)-(G)    135.03
2903.09                                   135.01
2903.10                                   135.19
2903.13                                   135.04
2903.14                                   135.04
2903.16                                   135.19
2903.31                                   135.17
2903.311(B), (C)                          135.17
2903.33                                   135.20
2903.34                                   135.20
2903.341                                  135.20
2903.35                                   135.20
2903.36                                   135.20
2905.03                                   135.07
2905.12                                   135.09
2907.01                                   133.01
2907.04                                   133.02
2907.06                                   133.03
2907.071                                  133.23
2907.08                                   133.05
2907.09                                   133.04
2907.10                                   133.06
2907.23                                   133.07
2907.231                                  133.07
2907.24                                   133.08
2907.241                                  133.08
2907.25                                   133.09
2907.26                                   133.14
2907.31                                   133.10
2907.311                                  133.11
2907.33                                   133.13
2907.35                                   133.10
2907.36                                   133.15
2907.37                                   133.16
2907.38                                   133.18
2907.39                                   133.19
2907.40                                   133.20
2909.01                                   131.01
2909.03                                   131.02
2909.06                                   131.03
2909.07                                   131.04
2909.08(A) - (E)                          131.05
2909.09                                   131.03
2909.10                                   131.34
2909.101                                  131.34
2909.11(B) - (D)                          131.02
2909.31                                   136.21
2911.21                                   131.06
2911.211                                  131.06
2911.23                                   131.06
2911.32                                   131.07
2913.01                                   131.01
2913.02                                   131.08
2913.03                                   131.09
2913.04                                   131.10
2913.07                                   131.32
2913.11                                   131.11
2913.21                                   131.12
2913.31(B), (C)(2)                        131.26
2913.32                                   131.27
2913.33                                   131.13
2913.34                                   131.29
2913.40                                   131.23
2913.401                                  131.23
2913.41                                   131.14
2913.42                                   131.15
2913.43                                   131.16
2913.44                                   131.28
2913.441                                  132.11
2913.45                                   131.17
2913.47                                   131.23
2913.48                                   131.23
2913.51                                   131.18
2913.61(B) - (E)                          131.19
2913.71                                   131.20
2913.72                                   131.25
2913.73                                   131.25
2915.01                                   134.01
2915.02(A) - (G), (K)                     134.02
2915.03                                   134.03
2915.04                                   134.04
2915.05                                   134.05
2915.06                                   134.14
2915.061                                  134.14
2915.09                                   134.06
2915.091                                  134.10
2915.092                                  134.11
2915.093                                  134.12
2915.094                                  134.13
2915.10                                   134.07
2915.11                                   134.08
2915.12                                   134.09
2915.13                                   134.12
2915.14                                   135.15
2917.01                                   132.10
2917.03                                   132.01
2917.031                                  132.01
2917.04                                   132.02
2917.05                                   132.03
2917.11                                   132.04
2917.12                                   132.05
2917.13                                   132.06
2917.14                                   132.16
2917.21                                   132.07
2917.211                                  133.22
2921.29                                   136.21
2917.31                                   132.08
2917.32                                   132.09
2917.41                                   132.14
2919.01                                   135.10
2919.21                                   135.13
2919.22(A) - (E), (H)                     135.14
2919.23                                   135.15
2919.231                                  135.15
2919.24                                   135.18
2919.25                                   135.16
2919.27                                   135.23
2921.01                                   136.01
2921.04                                   136.17
2921.13                                   136.02
2921.14                                   136.14
2921.15                                   136.19
2921.21                                   136.03
2921.22                                   136.04
2921.23                                   136.05
2921.24                                   136.16
2921.25                                   136.16
2921.31                                   136.06
2921.32                                   136.07
2921.321                                  136.15
2921.33                                   136.08
2921.331(A) - (C), (E), (F)               70.02
2921.36                                   136.13
2921.37                                   136.13
2921.42                                   136.09
2921.43                                   136.10
2921.44                                   136.11
2921.45                                   136.12
2921.51                                   132.12
2921.52(A) - (D)                          136.18
2923.02                                   130.11
2923.03                                   130.12
2923.11                                   91.01,
                                          137.01
2923.12                                   137.02
2923.1211(B), (C)                         137.13
2923.1212                                 137.13
2923.122(C) - (G)                         137.11
2923.126                                  137.13
2923.131                                  137.12
2923.15                                   137.03
2923.16                                   137.04
2923.162                                  137.09
2923.18                                   137.10
2923.19                                   137.06
2923.20                                   137.07
2923.201                                  137.14
2923.211                                  137.08
2923.24                                   137.05
2925.01                                   138.01
2925.04 (A), (B), (C)(5), G)              138.06
2925.11                                   138.03
2925.12                                   138.04
2925.13 (A) - (C), (F)                    138.05
2925.14                                   138.13
2925.141                                  138.13
2925.31                                   138.07
2925.32(B)(4, (D)(2), (F), (G)            138.10
2925.33                                   138.10
2925.34                                   138.21
2925.36 (A) - (C)                         138.08
2925.37(A), (G)                           138.12
2925.50                                   138.09
2925.51                                   138.11
2925.511                                  138.11
2925.55                                   138.18
2925.56                                   138.18
2925.57                                   138.18
2925.58                                   138.18
2925.62                                   138.20
2927.01                                   135.28
2927.03                                   135.21
2927.11                                   139.01
2927.12                                   135.22
2927.15                                   135.29
2927.17                                   133.21
2927.27                                   130.20
2929.21                                   130.99
2929.22                                   130.18
2929.23                                   133.99
2929.24                                   130.99
2929.25                                   130.99
2929.26                                   130.99
2929.27                                   130.99
2929.28                                   130.99
2929.31                                   130.99
2929.41                                   130.19
2935.041                                  131.22
2935.28                                   70.08
2935.36(E)                                130.02
2981.07                                   131.33
2981.11                                   130.17
2981.12                                   130.17
2981.13(A)                                130.17
3701.81                                   135.27
3701.82                                   139.02
3701.99(C)                                135.27,
                                          139.02
3715.05                                   138.18
3715.06                                   138.18
3716.11                                   135.24
3716.99(C)                                135.24
3719.08(A), (E)                           138.14
3719.172(A), (B)                          138.15
3719.19                                   138.09
3719.99(C)                                138.14
3719.99(E)                                138.15
3743.01                                   91.01
3743.45                                   91.02
3743.54                                   91.03
3743.60(E) - (L)                          91.04
3743.61(E) - (L)                          91.04
3743.63                                   91.05
3743.64(C) - (G)                          91.06
3743.65(A) - (E), (G), (H)                91.02
3743.66                                   91.07
3743.68                                   91.09
3743.80                                   91.08
3743.99(C), (D), (F) - (H)                91.99
3767.201                                  70.09
                                          70.09,
3767.99(D)                                73.33,
                                          73.34
3773.06                                   137.09
3773.99(A)                                137.09
3780.36                                   138.02
3780.99                                   138.02
3781.55                                   133.04
4301.01                                   114.01
4301.20                                   114.02
4301.21                                   114.03
4301.22                                   114.04
4301.244                                  114.01
4301.58                                   114.05
4301.60                                   114.06
4301.61                                   114.27
4301.611                                  114.28
4301.62                                   114.07
4301.63                                   114.08
4301.631                                  114.09
4301.633                                  114.10
4301.634                                  114.11
4301.637                                  114.13
4301.638                                  114.04,
                                          114.12
4301.639(A), (C)                          114.14
4301.64                                   114.15
4301.65                                   114.29
4301.66                                   114.17
4301.67                                   114.18
4301.68                                   114.19
4301.69                                   114.12
4301.70                                   114.99
4301.74                                   114.26
                                          114.07,
4301.99(A)                                114.29,
                                          114.99
                                          114.04,
4301.99(B)                                114.09,
                                          114.15,
                                          114.18
                                          114.03,
                                          114.05,
                                          114.06,
4301.99(C)                                114.10,
                                          114.12,
                                          114.17,
                                          114.19,
                                          114.26
4301.99(D)                                114.12
4301.99(D), (H)                           114.04
4301.99(E)                                114.08,
                                          114.09
4301.99(F)                                114.11
4301.99(I)                                114.12
4301.99(J)                                114.29
4303.202(D)(2)                            114.16
4303.25                                   114.05
4303.40                                   114.25
4303.99(D)                                114.16
4399.09                                   114.20
4399.10                                   114.21
4399.14                                   114.22
4399.15                                   114.23
4399.16                                   114.24
4399.99(A)                                114.24
4399.99(B)                                114.20
4399.99(C)                                114.21
4399.99(D)                                114.22
4399.99(E)                                114.23
4501.01(LL)                               70.01
4501.01(TT)                               72.056
4503.05                                   71.02
4503.11(A), (D)                           71.01
4503.111                                  71.01
4503.12(A), (D)                           71.01
4503.21(A), (B), (C)                      71.01
4503.236                                  71.03
4505.18                                   71.04
4506.99                                   71.99
4507.02(A)                                71.22
4507.03                                   71.22
4507.04                                   71.22
4507.05(F), (I)                           71.21
4507.071(B) - (J)                         71.21
4507.30                                   71.20
4507.31(A), (B)                           71.21
4507.321                                  71.23
4507.35                                   71.26
4507.36                                   71.27
4507.99                                   71.99
4509.74                                   73.63
4509.102                                  136.02
                                          71.30,
4510.04                                   71.31,
                                          71.32
4510.05                                   71.25
4510.14                                   71.30
4510.15                                   71.25
4510.21                                   71.32
4510.44                                   73.03
4511.01                                   70.01
4511.03                                   70.03
4511.031                                  70.29
4511.04                                   70.04
4511.041                                  70.04
4511.042                                  70.04
4511.05                                   70.05
4511.051                                  70.06
4511.08                                   70.07
4511.12(A), (B)                           70.20
4511.121(A) - (E)                         70.20
4511.13                                   70.21
4511.131                                  70.22
4511.132                                  70.23
4511.14                                   70.24
4511.16                                   70.26
4511.17                                   70.27
4511.18                                   70.28
4511.181                                  73.01
4511.19(A) - (M)                          73.01
4511.191(A), (D)                          73.011
4511.192                                  73.011
4511.194                                  73.012
4511.20                                   73.15
4511.201                                  73.16
4511.202                                  73.17
4511.203                                  71.24
4511.21(A) - (G), (O), (P)                73.30
4511.211(A) - (F)                         73.30
4511.213(A) - (E)                         72.080
4511.214                                  73.04
4511.215                                  73.04
4511.216                                  73.04
4511.22                                   73.31
4511.23                                   73.34
4511.24                                   73.32
4511.25                                   72.001
4511.251                                  73.33
4511.26                                   72.003
4511.27                                   72.004
4511.28                                   72.005
4511.29                                   72.006
4511.30                                   72.007
4511.31                                   72.008
4511.32                                   72.009
4511.33                                   72.010
4511.34                                   72.011
4511.35                                   72.012
4511.36                                   72.013
4511.37                                   72.014
4511.38                                   72.015
4511.39                                   72.016
4511.40                                   72.017
4511.41                                   72.030
4511.42                                   72.031
4511.43                                   72.032
4511.431(A), (B)                          72.033
4511.432(A) - (E)                         72.033
4511.44                                   72.034
4511.441                                  72.035
4511.45                                   72.036
4511.451                                  72.037
4511.452                                  72.038
4511.454                                  72.036
4511.46                                   72.039
4511.47                                   72.040
4511.48                                   72.041
4511.481                                  72.055
4511.49                                   72.050
4511.491                                  72.054
4511.50                                   72.051
4511.51                                   72.052
4511.511                                  72.053
4511.512                                  72.056
4511.513                                  72.057
4511.514                                  72.058
4511.52                                   75.01
4511.521                                  75.02
4511.522                                  75.09
4511.53                                   75.03
4511.54                                   75.04
4511.55                                   75.05
4511.56                                   75.06
4511.60                                   72.002
4511.61                                   72.065
4511.62                                   72.066
4511.63                                   72.067
4511.64                                   72.068
4511.65                                   70.10
4511.66                                   76.01
4511.661                                  76.02
4511.67                                   76.03
4511.68                                   76.04
4511.69                                   76.05
4511.70                                   72.075
4511.701                                  72.076
4511.71                                   72.077
4511.711(A), (B)                          72.078
4511.712                                  72.079
4511.713(A), (B)                          72.078
4511.714                                  72.077
4511.72(A), (B)                           72.080
4511.73                                   72.081
4511.74(A), (B), (C)                      72.082
4511.75                                   72.100
4511.751                                  72.101
4511.76 (C), (H), (I)                     72.102
4511.761                                  72.103
4511.762                                  72.104
4511.763                                  72.105
4511.764                                  72.106
4511.77                                   72.107
4511.771                                  72.108
4511.772                                  72.109
4511.79                                   73.02
4511.81(A) - (H), (K), (L)                72.083
4511.82(A) - (D)                          72.082
4511.84                                   72.085
4511.85                                   72.086
4513.02(A), (H)                           74.01
4513.021                                  74.02
4513.04                                   74.04
4513.05                                   74.05
4513.06                                   74.06
4513.07                                   74.07
4513.071                                  74.08
4513.08                                   74.09
4513.09                                   74.10
4513.10                                   74.11
4513.11                                   74.12
4513.111                                  74.12
4513.112                                  74.12
4513.113                                  74.12
4513.114                                  74.12
4513.115                                  74.12
4513.12                                   74.13
4513.13                                   74.14
4513.14                                   74.15
4513.15                                   74.16
4513.16                                   74.17
4513.17                                   74.18
4513.171                                  74.18
4513.18                                   74.19
4513.181                                  74.20
4513.182                                  74.21
4513.19                                   74.22
4513.20                                   74.23
4513.201                                  74.24
4513.202                                  74.25
4513.21                                   74.26
4513.22                                   74.27
4513.23                                   74.28
4513.24                                   74.29
4513.241(C) - (K)                         74.31
4513.25                                   74.30
4513.26                                   74.31
4513.261                                  74.32
4513.262                                  74.33
4513.263                                  72.084
4513.27                                   74.34
4513.28                                   74.35
4513.29                                   74.36
4513.30                                   74.51
4513.31                                   74.52
4513.32                                   74.53
4513.34                                   74.50
4513.36                                   73.45
4513.361                                  73.46
4513.50                                   74.38
4513.51(A), (B), (D)                      74.38
4513.65                                   92.09
4513.66                                   70.12
4513.68                                   70.12
                                          74.11,
                                          74.21,
                                          74.23 -
                                          74.25,
4513.99                                   74.30,
                                          74.31,
                                          74.34,
                                          74.36,
                                          74.50 -
                                          74.53
4519.401                                  73.04
4549.02                                   73.60
4549.021                                  73.61
4549.03                                   73.62
4549.05                                   70.11
4549.08                                   71.06
4549.081(B), (C)                          70.20
4549.10(B)                                71.07
4549.11(A), (B)                           71.01
4549.12(A), (B)                           71.01
4549.18                                   71.05
4549.20                                   74.39
4731.481                                  138.17
4731.99(F)                                138.17
4734.161                                  138.17
4734.99(B)                                138.17
4933.18                                   131.31
4933.19                                   131.31
4999.02                                   77.02
4999.04                                   77.03
5577.03                                   74.54
5577.04                                   74.54
5577.041                                  74.54
5577.15                                   74.53
5577.99(C)                                74.54
5589.08                                   72.087
5589.081                                  74.37
5589.12                                   131.10
5589.21                                   77.01
                                          77.01,
5589.99(B)                                72.087,
                                          74.37,
                                          131.10
                                          
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
38-1971  7-21-71     38.01
18-1976  2-4-76      132.15
89-1976  12-1-76     76.06
30-1977  5-4-77      38.01
11-1978  2-1-78      38.01
                     151.001 -
                     151.007,
                     151.020 -
                     151.023,
                     151.040 -
                     151.044,
57-1981  10-21-81    151.055 -
                     151.061,
                     151.075 ,
                     151.077 -
                     151.083,
                     151.095 -
                     151.104,
                     151.999
24-1984  4-18-84     76.07
70-1984  1-16-85     93.26
58-1985  9-18-85     32.01 -
                     32.05
16-1987  4-1-87      T.S.O. IV
31-1988  8-17-88     T.S.O. I
47-1988  11-16-88    T.S.O. IV
14-1990  2-21-90     T.S.O. Table II
                     92.01 -
16-1990  5-2-90      92.05,
                     92.99
                     150.218,
                     152.001 -
                     152.004,
                     152.015 -
                     152.031,
                     152.045, 
                     152.046,
                     152.047 -
-        12-11-90    152.049,
                     152.090 -
                     152. 095,
                     152.110 -
                     152.114,
                     152.125 -
                     152.133,
                     152.999,
                     Ch. 152 Appendix B
59-1990  12-19-90    38.01
63-1991  11-20-91    93.55,
                     93.99
20-1992  3-18-92     92.06 -
                     92.08
27-1992  5-6-92      93.63,
                     93.99
28-1992  4-15-92     132.15
48-1992  7-15-92     152.045
8-1993   2-17-93     152.020
19-1993  4-21-93     T.S.O. Table I
20-1993  4-21-93     T.S.O. Table I
36-1993  8-18-93     152.133
55-1993  10-27-93    T.S.O. Table I
12-1994  3-2-94      T.S.O. Table I
15-1994  3-15-94     115.01
17-1994  3-16-94     32.02
22-1994  5-18-94     70.98
                     Charter
                     3.01,
51-1995  8-2-95      4.01,
                     4.04,
                     5.01
18-1996  4-3-96      38.03
22-1996  5-1-96      T.S.O. III
41-1996  10-16-96    152.032
45       11-20-96    152.045
17       3-19-97     152.002,
                     152.080
63       12-17-97    Ch. 112
24       8-5-98      133.17
41       10-7-98     74.23(B)
45       10-21-98    T.S.O. III
50       1-6-99      T.S.O. V
4        1-20-99     152.049
17       4-7-99      T.S.O. I
20       4-28-99     T.S.O. I
21       4-28-99     T.S.O. I
22       4-29-99     T.S.O. I
                     93.50,
                     93.51,
23       4-28-99     93.52,
                     93.53,
                     93.54
8        2-2-00      74.54
                     150.218,
                     152.015,
                     152.020,
12       4-5-00      152.046,
                     152.0461,  
                     152.047,
                     152.048,  
                     152.128
20       5-3-00      152.015,
                     152.050
32       7-5-00      Charter
                     2.03
33       7-5-00      Charter
                     18.01
42       8-2-00      76.05
48       8-16-00     39.01 -
                     39.17
51       9-6-00      76.07
52       9-6-00      74.23
54       9-6-00      38.05
55       9-6-00      38.04
63       11-1-00     T.S.O. I
65       11-15-00    38.06
72       12-20-00    96.01 -
                     96.04
31       6-20-01     T.S.O. I
                     72.088,
51       11-7-01     72.089,
                     76.07
52       11-7-01     70.98
5        2-6-02      38.07
26       6-5-02      70.98
27       6-5-02      76.04
36       7-2-02      152.024
16       5-7-03      30.07
2004-133 3-15-04     152.033
7        3-16-05     35.01-
                     35.03
34       6-15-05     93.24
61       9-22-05     133.12
38       11-8-05     Charter
                     7.03
53       11-8-05     Charter
                     14.03
54       11-8-05     Charter
                     18.01
55       11-8-05     Charter
                     19.03
67       11-18-05    93.26
16       2-2-06      135.26
24       4-19-06     32.02 -
                     32.04
59       8-23-06     Charter
                     9.01
                     Charter
60       8-23-06     10.01,
                     10.02
                     Charter
61       8-23-06     11.01,
                     11.02
62       8-23-06     Charter
                     18.01
10       3-12-07     70.98
11 -2007 3-8-07      152.033
                     116.01 -
27       6-7-07      116.18,
                     116.99
36       6-7-07      70.98
41       7-2-07      152.128 ,
                     152.130
42       7-2-07      75.07
45       8-2-07      75.07
50       10-4-07     40.01 -
                     40.06
60       12-5-07     153.01 -
                     153.14
61       11-7-07     93.70
39       5-7-08      40.01 -
                     40.06
51       6-18-08     76.09
54       6-18-08     75.07
                     150.01 -
73       8-6-08      150.05,
                     150.99
84       10-1-08     116.07
86       10-1-08     70.98
98       12-3-08     116.15
2009-7   2-4-09      35.03
                     154.01 -
                     154.10,
                     154.20 -
                     154.31,
                     154.40 -
2009-40  6-17-09     154.49,
                     154.60 -
                     154.65,
                     154.80,
                     154.81,
                     154.99
2009-72  11-4-09     40.02,
                     40.03
2009-78  12-16-09    95.11
2010-6   2-17-10     116.11
2010-7   2-17-10     71.29
2010-38  8-4-10      76.09
2010-61  9-15-10     71.28,
                     71.31
                     74.03 -
                     74.08,
                     74.10,
2010-62  9-15-10     74.12 -
                     74.19,
                     74.22,
                     74.26 -
                     74.29
2010-68  11-17-10    152.048
2011-31  7-20-11     75.08
2011-47  9-21-11     76.04
2011-50  10-5-11     116.02,
                     116.09
2011-54  11-2-11     93.50, 93.51
2011-55  11-2-11     90.01
2011-59  12-7-11     150.06
2012-10  3-21-12     138.19,
                     138.20
2012-30  6-6-12      152.024
2012-51  8-1-12      93.51, 93.53
2012-68  10-3-12     73.30
2012-77  11-20-12    91.22 -
                     91.29
2013-8   2-7-13      35.03
2013-15  2-20-13     138.131
2013-36  4-17-13     72.090,
                     72.091
2014-13  4-2-14      116.07
2014-25  6-4-14      T.S.O. Table I
2014-26  6-4-14      T.S.O. Table I
2014-28  6-4-14      T.S.O. Table I
                     93.26,
                     93.51,
2014-46  9-3-14      93.53 -
                     93.55,
                     93.60,
                     93.99
2014-61  10-1-14     T.S.O. Table I
2016-56  7-20-16     93.63
2016-70  10-5-16     90.26
2017-57  10-4-17     T.S.O. Table III
2017-78  12-20-17    T.S.O. Table I
                     37.01 -
2018-6   1-17-18     37.20,
                     37.97 -
                     37.99
2018-30  5-2-18      135.25
                     117.01 -
2018-47  6-20-18     117.11,
                     117.99
2018-48  6-20-18     T.S.O. Table I
2018-58  8-1-18      T.S.O. Table I
2018-73  9-19-18     72.082
                     93.01 -
                     93.05,
                     93.20 -
                     93.26,
                     93.30 -
                     93.39,
                     93.50 -
                     93.55,
                     93.60 -
                     93.64,
                     93.99,
                     95.01 -
                     95.18,
                     95.99,
                     150.01 -
                     150.06,
                     150.201 -
                     150.225,
                     150.99,
                     151.001 -
                     151.007,
                     151.020 -
                     151.023,
2018-80  11-20-18    151.040 -
                     151.044,
                     151.055 -
                     151.061,
                     151.075 -
                     151.083,
                     151.095 -
                     151.104,
                     Ch. 151 Appendix A -
                     I,
                     152.001 -
                     152.004,
                     152.015 -
                     152.033,
                     152.045 -
                     152.052,
                     152.090 -
                     152.096,
                     152.110 -
                     152.114,
                     152.125 -
                     152.133,
                     152.999,
                     Ch. 152 Appendix B
2018-81  10-17-18    135.25,
                     T.S.O. Table I
2018-91  12-5-18     38.10
                     37.062,
2018-96  12-19-18    37.063,
                     37.066 
2019-7   1-16-19     T.S.O. Table I
2019-16  2-20-19     35.02,
                     35.03
2019-17  2-20-19     38.11
2019-36  5-1-19   118.01 -
                     118.03
2019-43  6-5-19      37.012,
                     37.013
                     152.002,
2019-62  8-21-19     152.035,
                     152.036
2019-63  8-21-19     152.034,
                     152.047
2019-71  8-7-19      38.12
2019-99  12-4-19     35.04
2019-105 12-18-19    T.S.O. Table I
2020-15  3-4-20   150.203
2020-35  6-3-20      152.020
2020-36  6-3-20      152.002
2020-51  8-5-20      71.07
                     50.01 -
2020-105 12-16-20    50.17,
                     50.99
2021-7   1-20-21     50.15
2021-13  2-3-21      116.07
2021-16  3-3-21      T.S.O. Table I
2021-25  5-20-21     35.03
2021-40  8-4-21      T.S.O. Table I
2021-57  10-20-21    T.S.O. Table II
2021-62  12-29-21    T.S.O. Table I
2022-16  2-2-22      T.S.O. Table III
                     113.01,
                     119.01 -
2022-33  4-20-22     119.18,
                     120.01 -
                     120.05
2022-34  4-20-22     132.13
2022-36  5-4-22      32.01,
                     32.02
2022-41  6-1-22      91.02
2022-60  10-5-22     135.06
2022-61  10-5-22     35.04
2022-73  11-16-22    72.059
2022-74  11-16-22    72.092
2022-85  12-7-22     35.04
2023-19  3-1-23      T.S.O. Table I
2023-23  3-1-23      93.26
2023-34  5-3-23      70.99,
                     72.090
2023-40  6-7-23      T.S.O. Table III
2023-41  6-21-23     38.14
2023-42  6-21-23     76.10
2023-47  7-19-23     93.56
2023-48  7-19-23     152.037,
                     152.113
2023-53  8-2-23      T.S.O. Table III
2023-64  9-6-23      150.226
2023-65  9-6-23      150.213
2023-68  9-20-23     T.S.O. Table I
2023-71  10-4-23     T.S.O. Table I
2023-76  11-1-23     T.S.O. Table I
                     37.062,
2023-77  11-1-23     37.094,
                     37.10
2024-31  5-1-24      150.224
2024-46  7-2-24      90.40
2024-47  7-2-24      T.S.O. Table I
                     76.01,
                     76.02,
2024-55  8-7-24      76.04,
                     76.05,
                     76.06,
                     76.08
2024-59  9-4-24      38.15
2024-71  11-6-24     T.S.O. Table I
2024-88  12-4-24     T.S.O. Table I
                    
 
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
10-1978  3-1-78      38.02
51-1982  8-4-82      95.16
18-1993  4-21-93     T.S.O. Table I
26-A     7-7-93      38.02
61-1993  12-15-93    T.S.O. Table I
8        2-3-05      38.08
85       12-7-06     32.02
13       5-2-07      T.S.O. Table I
2009-26  4-15-09     38.09
2009-39  7-1-09      Charter
                     3.11
                     Charter
2010-54  8-25-10     3.08,
                     4.03,
                     5.03
2010-56  8-25-10     Charter
                     14.03
2010-57  8-25-10     Charter
                     9.01
                     Charter
2010-58  8-25-10     7.03,
                     7.04
2012-2   1-18-12     T.S.O. Table I
2012-5   2-1-12      T.S.O. Table I
2012-6   2-1-12      T.S.O. Table I
2012-7   2-15-12     T.S.O. Table I
2012-9   2-15-12     T.S.O. Table I
2012-14  3-7-12      T.S.O. Table I
2012-15  3-7-12      T.S.O. Table I
2012-16  3-7-12      T.S.O. Table I
2012-24  4-4-12      T.S.O. Table I
2012-28  4-4-12      T.S.O. Table I
2012-33  4-18-12     T.S.O. Table I
2012-43  5-16-12     T.S.O. Table I
2012-50  7-5-12      T.S.O. Table I
2012-53  8-1-12      T.S.O. Table I
2012-55  8-1-12      T.S.O. Table I
2012-67  9-19-12     T.S.O. Table I
2012-69  9-19-12     T.S.O. Table I
2012-71  11-7-12     T.S.O. Table I
2012-75  11-7-12     T.S.O. Table I
2013-7   2-7-13      T.S.O. Table I
2013-9   2-7-13      T.S.O. Table I
2013-11  2-7-13      T.S.O. Table I
2013-13  2-20-13     T.S.O. Table I
2013-14  2-20-13     T.S.O. Table I
2013-18  2-20-13     T.S.O. Table I
2013-22  3-6-13      T.S.O. Table I
2013-37  4-17-13     T.S.O. Table I
2013-52  7-2-13      T.S.O. Table I
2013-53  7-2-13      T.S.O. Table I
2013-55  7-2-13      T.S.O. Table I
2013-57  7-17-13     T.S.O. Table I
2013-62  8-7-13      T.S.O. Table I
2013-70  8-7-13      T.S.O. Table I
2013-72  9-4-13      T.S.O. Table I
2013-77  11-6-13     T.S.O. Table I
2013-80  11-20-13    T.S.O. Table I
2013-81  12-4-13     T.S.O. Table I
2013-82  1-8-14      95.18
2013-84  12-18-13    T.S.O. Table I
2014-4   1-22-14     T.S.O. Table I
2014-12  4-2-14      T.S.O. Table I
2014-19  4-16-14     T.S.O. Table I
2014-20  4-16-14     T.S.O. Table I
2014-30  7-2-14      T.S.O. Table I
2014-58  9-17-14     T.S.O. Table I
2014-69  11-5-14     T.S.O. Table I
2014-75  12-17-14    T.S.O. Table I
2015-8   1-21-15     T.S.O. Table I
2015-9   1-21-15     T.S.O. Table I
2015-25  5-6-15      T.S.O. Table I
2015-26  5-6-15      T.S.O. Table I
2015-30  6-3-15      T.S.O. Table I
2015-42  9-16-15     T.S.O. Table I
2015-53  11-18-15    T.S.O. Table I
2015-54  12-2-15     T.S.O. Table I
2016-20  3-2-16      T.S.O. Table I
2016-21  3-2-16      T.S.O. Table I
2016-42  5-4-16      T.S.O. Table I
2016-49  6-15-16     T.S.O. Table I
2016-52  7-6-16      T.S.O. Table I
2016-69  9-7-16      T.S.O. Table I
2016-77  11-16-16    T.S.O. Table I
2016-87  12-21-16    T.S.O. Table I
2017-5   2-1-17      T.S.O. Table I
2017-20  3-1-17      T.S.O. Table I
2017-35  5-3-17      T.S.O. Table I
2017-53  8-23-17     T.S.O. Table I
2017-54  8-23-17     T.S.O. Table I
2017-63  11-1-17     T.S.O. Table I
2017-65  11-15-17    T.S.O. Table I
2017-71  12-6-17     T.S.O. Table I
2017-75  12-20-17    T.S.O. Table I
2017-77  12-20-17    T.S.O. Table I
2018-49  6-20-18     T.S.O. Table I
2018-59  8-1-18      T.S.O. Table I
2018-61  8-1-18      T.S.O. Table I
2018-92  12-5-18     T.S.O. Table I
2019-5   1-2-19      37.012,
                     37.013
2019-6   1-16-19     T.S.O. Table I
2019-10  2-6-19   T.S.O. Table I
2019-13  2-6-19   T.S.O. Table I
2019-14  2-6-19   T.S.O. Table I
2019-15  2-20-19     T.S.O. Table I
2019-18  2-20-19     T.S.O. Table I
2019-23  2-20-19     38.13
2019-26  3-6-19      T.S.O. Table II
2019-27  3-6-19      T.S.O. Table I
2019-32  4-3-19      T.S.O. Table I
2019-42  6-5-19      T.S.O. Table I
2019-46  6-5-19      T.S.O. Table I
2019-60  6-19-19     152.034,
                     152.047
                     152.002,
2019-61  6-19-19     152.035,
                     152.036
2019-64  7-17-19     T.S.O. Table I
2019-67  7-17-19     T.S.O. Table I
2019-70  8-7-19      T.S.O. Table I
2019-76  9-4-19   T.S.O. Table I
2019-95  12-4-19     T.S.O. Table I
2019-97  12-4-19     T.S.O. Table I
2019-100 12-4-19     Charter 13.01
2019-103 12-18-19    T.S.O. Table I
2019-109 12-18-19    T.S.O. Table I
2020-17  2-19-20     T.S.O. Table I
2020-19  3-4-20      T.S.O. Table I
2020-30  4-22-20     T.S.O. Table I
2020-44  7-1-20      T.S.O. Table I
2020-55  8-19-20     T.S.O. Table I
2020-56  9-2-20      T.S.O. Table I
2020-61  9-2-20      T.S.O. Table I
2020-69  12-2-20     T.S.O. Table I
2020-85  12-2-20     T.S.O. Table I
2020-86  12-2-20     T.S.O. Table I
2020-87  12-2-20     T.S.O. Table I
2020-89  12-2-20     T.S.O. Table I
2021-4   1-6-21      T.S.O. Table I
2021-5   1-20-21     T.S.O. Table I
2021-31  6-2-21      T.S.O. Table I
2021-32  6-2-21      T.S.O. Table I
2021-37  7-7-21      T.S.O. Table I
2021-48  9-1-21      T.S.O. Table I
2022-7   1-5-22      T.S.O. Table I
2022-13  2-2-22      T.S.O. Table I
2022-26  3-16-22     T.S.O. Table I
2022-30  4-6-22      T.S.O. Table I
2022-37  5-4-22      T.S.O. Table I
2022-44  6-15-22     T.S.O. Table I
2022-45  6-15-22     T.S.O. Table I
2022-47  6-15-22     T.S.O. Table I
2022-48  7-6-22      Charter §
                     4.02
2022-49  7-6-22      Charter §
                     10.01
2022-53  8-3-22      T.S.O. Table I
2022-55  9-7-22      T.S.O. Table I
2022-64  10-19-22    T.S.O. Table I
2022-71  11-2-22     T.S.O. Table I
2022-76  12-7-22     T.S.O. Table I
2022-84  12-7-22     T.S.O. Table I
2022-89  12-21-22    T.S.O. Table I
2022-95  12-21-22    T.S.O. Table I
2022-96  12-21-22    T.S.O. Table I
2023-12  2-1-23      T.S.O. Table I
2023-18  2-1-23      T.S.O. Table I
2023-25  3-15-23     T.S.O. Table I
2023-32  4-19-23     T.S.O. Table I
2023-38  6-7-23      T.S.O. Table I
2023-49  7-19-23     T.S.O. Table I
2023-51  7-19-23     T.S.O. Table I
2023-58  8-16-23     T.S.O. Table I
2023-67  9-20-23     T.S.O. Table I
2023-72  10-4-23     T.S.O. Table I
2023-87  12-6-23     T.S.O. Table I
2023-89  12-6-23     T.S.O. Table I
2023-97  12-20-23    T.S.O. Table I
2023-98  12-20-23    T.S.O. Table I
2023-99  12-20-23    T.S.O. Table I
2024-18  3-6-24      T.S.O. Table I
2024-19  3-6-24      T.S.O. Table I
2024-23  4-3-24      T.S.O. Table I
2024-24  4-3-24      T.S.O. Table I
2024-32  5-1-24      T.S.O. Table I
2024-36  5-15-24     T.S.O. Table I
2024-37  7-2-24      T.S.O. Table I
2024-41  6-18-24     T.S.O. Table I
2024-57  8-21-24     T.S.O. Table I
2024-60  9-18-24     T.S.O. Table I
2024-61  9-18-24     T.S.O. Table I
2024-63  9-18-24     T.S.O. Table I
2024-94  12-18-24    T.S.O. Table I
2024-95  12-18-24    T.S.O. Table I
                    
 
 
