NELSONVILLE, OHIO
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2023 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 74-23, passed 12-11-2023
State legislation current through 4-6-2022
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE 72-22
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF NELSONVILLE,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH
CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
   WHEREAS, the present General and Permanent Ordinances of the political
subdivision are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in
form and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of
its affairs; and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Ohio empower and
authorize the political subdivision to revise, amend, restate, codify and
compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance book form;
and
   WHEREAS, the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision has
authorized a general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances
of the Political Subdivision of a general permanent nature and publication of
such ordinance in book form; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF NELSONVILLE, ATHENS
COUNTY, OHIO AS FOLLOWS:
   1.   The General Ordinances of the Political Subdivision as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the "Code Ordinances of the City of Nelsonville."
   2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the
following Titles:
   Nelsonville Ohio Code of Ordinances
   Charter of Nelsonville, Ohio
   Title 1: General Provisions
   Title 3: Administration
   Title 5: Public Works
   Title 7: Traffic Code
   Title 9: General Regulations
   Title 11: Business Regulations
   Title 13: General Offenses
   Title 15: Land Usage
   Table of Special Ordinances
   Parallel References
   3.   All prior Ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such Code of
Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date ofthis
ordinances except as they are included and reordained in whole or in party in
such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or
penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of this
ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying
taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory, establishing
franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons, authorizing public
improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money,
authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property, granting or
accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use, vacating or
setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall such repeal
affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to
subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
   4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption and
approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the Political
Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of
Ordinances in the Office of the Clerk.
   5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section 6,
and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date ofpassage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices there
of as required by law have been given.
   6.   This Ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary for the
immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of the
people of the City of Nelsonville, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
Duly enacted by Council on first reading under suspension of the rules on the
14th November, 2022.
                                          NELSONVILLE CITY COUNCIL
                                           /S/
                                                President of Council
/S/
   Clerk of Council
 
First Reading: 11/14/22   Adopted Under Suspension of the Rules
 
CHARTER OF NELSONVILLE, OHIO
Section
Preamble
Article I - Name, Succession and Boundaries
   
1.01   Name, succession and boundaries
Article II - Form of Government
   
2.01   Form of government
Article III - Powers
   
3.01   Powers
   
3.02   Construction
   
3.03   Intergovernmental relations
Article IV - The Council
   
4.01   Number, selection and term
   
4.02   Qualifications
   
4.03   Vacancies
   
4.04   Quorum
   
4.05   Meetings
   
4.06   Clerk of Council
   
4.07   Special meetings
   
4.08   Powers of Council
   
4.09   Forms of action by Council
   
4.10   Enactment of ordinances
   
4.11   Effective date
   
4.12   Publication of ordinances
   
4.13   Initiative and referendum
   
4.14   Adoption of standard codes by reference
   
4.15   Council compensation
Article V - City Manager
   
5.01   Approval and removal
   
5.02   Qualifications
   
5.03   Acting Manager
   
5.04   Powers and duties of the City Manager
   
5.05   Council, Manager relations
Article VI - Administrative Departments
   
6.01   Creation of departments
   
6.02   Creation of new departments
   
6.03   Department directors and division heads
   
6.04   Administrative Code
   
6.05   Department of Law
   
6.06   Department of Finance
   
6.06.01   Auditor: term
   
6.06.02   Auditor: qualifications
   
6.06.03   Auditor: powers and duties
   
6.06.04   Auditor: compensation
   
6.06.05   Auditor: vacancy
   
6.06.06   Auditor: staff
   
6.06.07   Treasurer: term
   
6.06.08   Treasurer: qualifications
   
6.06.09   Treasurer: powers and duties
   
6.06.10   Treasurer: compensation
   
6.06.11   Treasurer: vacancy
   
6.07   Department of Public Safety
   
6.07.01   Division of Water
   
6.07.02   Division of Water Distribution
   
6.07.03   Division of Sewers
   
6.07.04   Division of Streets
   
6.08   Department of Public Safety
   
6.08.01   Division of Police
   
6.08.02   Division of Fire
   
6.08.03   Residence requirements
   
6.08.04   Procedure for appointment of Police and Fire Chief
Article VII - Boards and Commissions
   
7.01   Creation of boards and commissions
   
7.02   Appointment of members of boards and commissions
   
7.03   General rules for boards and commissions
   
7.04   The Civil Service Commission
   
7.05   City Planning Commission
   
7.06   Board of Zoning Appeals
   
7.07   Board of Parks and Recreation
Article VIII - Finance, Taxation and Debt
   
8.01   General
   
8.02   Capital Improvements Plan
   
8.03   Temporary appropriations
   
8.04   Income tax
   
8.05   Purchasing and contracting; competitive bidding
Article IX - Nominations and Elections
   
9.01   City elections
   
9.02   Nominations
   
9.03   Absence of general laws
Article X - Initiative, Referendum and Recall
   
10.01   General authority
   
10.02   Commencement of proceedings; petitioner’s committee
   
10.03   Petitions
   
10.04   Referendum petitions; suspension of effect of ordinance
   
10.05   Action of petitions
   
10.06   Results of election
Article XI - General Provisions
   
11.01   Oath of office
   
11.02   Official bonds
   
11.03   Fees
   
11.04   Amendments
   
11.05   Conflicting amendments
   
11.06   Effect of partial invalidity
   
11.07   Political activity
   
11.08   Removal of official
   
11.09   Conflicts of interest; ethics; campaign financing
   
11.10   Succession
   
11.11   Effect of Charter on existing laws and rights
Article XII - Transitional Provisions
   
12.01   Effective date
   
12.02   Effect of Charter on existing personnel
   
12.03   Votes of Council during transition period
PREAMBLE
   We, the people of the City of Nelsonville, Ohio, in order to obtain and
secure the benefits of home rule powers under the Constitution of the State of
Ohio, do hereby adopt this Charter for the government of the City of
Nelsonville.
   Through this Charter with divine guidance we express our beliefs and convey
our trusts, so that its concepts shall long endure without regard to age, race,
color, sex, marital status, handicap, religion, ancestry, or national origin.
ARTICLE I - NAME, SUCCESSION AND BOUNDARIES
§ 1.01 Name, succession and boundaries.
   The City shall be known as the “City of Nelsonville”, shall continue under
this Charter to be a body politic and corporate, and as such shall have
perpetual succession. The City shall have the same boundaries existing at the
time of adoption of this Charter, with the power and authority to change its
boundaries and annex territory thereto in the manner authorized by the laws of
the State of Ohio.
ARTICLE II - FORM OF GOVERNMENT
§ 2.01 Form of government.
   The government provided by this Charter shall be known as the Council-
Manager form.
ARTICLE III - POWERS
§ 3.01 Powers.
   The City shall have all powers to which a city is entitled under the
Constitution and laws of the State of Ohio, either expressly or by implication,
as fully and completely though specifically enumerated in this Charter. The
enumeration of specific powers in this Charter or the reference in this Charter
to specific powers granted by the Constitution or laws of the State of Ohio
shall not be construed to be exclusive, and the City may determine to exercise
any power in the manner provided under this Charter or in the manner provided
under the Constitution or laws of the State of Ohio. Unless otherwise specified
by ordinance or resolution, powers shall be exercised in the manner provided
under this Charter. It is the intention of the people by the adoption of this
Charter that a substantial compliance with the Charter’s provisions shall be
sufficient to sustain any action taken under this Charter.
§ 3.02 Construction.
   The powers of the City under this Charter shall be construed liberally in
favor of the City. As applied in this Charter, unless the context otherwise
requires, the singular includes the plural; the plural includes the singular;
words of one gender include the other gender; and words in the present tense
include the future tense.
§ 3.03 Intergovernmental relations.
   The City may exercise any of its functions, and participate in the financing
thereof, including the incurrence of debt, jointly or in cooperation, by
contract or otherwise, with one or more political subdivisions, s or civil
divisions thereof, or the United States or any agency thereof.
ARTICLE IV - THE COUNCIL
§ 4.01 Number, selection and term.
   The legislative powers of the City except as are reserved to the people by
this Charter (Initiative and Referendum), and by the Constitution of the State
of Ohio, shall be vested in a Council, which shall consist of seven (7) members
elected at large by a non-partisan ballot. All such members must be and must
remain residents of the City. The term of office of members of Council shall be
for four (4) years beginning the first Monday of December next following their
election and they shall hold office until their successors are elected and
qualified. To effect election by staggered terms of its members, the four (4)
members who receive the highest number of votes shall be elected for four (4)
years, and the three (3) members receiving the next highest votes shall be
elected for two (2) years. At succeeding elections all members shall be elected
for four (4) year terms of office.
§ 4.02 Qualifications.
   Any qualified elector who has been continuously a resident and a qualified
elector of the City of one (1) year next prior to their election, and who is
not the occupant of an incompatible office, shall be eligible to serve as a
member of City Council. Each member of Council shall continue to be a resident
and qualified elector of the City throughout his term of office, failing which
Council shall remove him from office.
§ 4.03 Vacancies.
   Vacancies in Council shall be filled by appointment of a qualified person.
The appointment shall be made by a majority vote of Council and shall continue
until the next election is held at which time a successor shall be elected to
fill the unexpired term. In the event Council fails to fill the vacancy within
thirty (30) days the President of Council shall make the appointment within
fifteen (15) days of Council’s failure to do so.
§ 4.04 Quorum.
   Four (4) members of Council shall constitute a quorum to transact business,
but a lesser number may adjourn from time to time and compel the attendance of
absent members in such manner and under such penalties as may be prescribed by
Council rules and regulations duly adopted.
§ 4.05 Meetings.
   The Council shall meet at such times and places as may be prescribed by its
ordinances, resolutions, rules or by motion. Regular meetings shall be held at
least twice in each calendar month, except that during the months of July and
August the Council may dispense with one of its regular meetings. The Council
shall determine its own rules and order of business and shall keep a journal of
its proceedings. Council may appoint, from its own body, such officers or
employees deemed necessary for efficient operation of Council. Except for such
closed executive sessions as may be permitted by Ohio law, all meetings of
Council and its committees shall be open to the public. Any person shall have
access to the public records of the City as permitted by Ohio law.
§ 4.06 Clerk of Council.
   Council shall appoint, by majority vote, a person to serve as Clerk of
Council. The Clerk shall serve at the pleasure of Council and may be removed by
a majority vote of Council. The Clerk of Council may not hold other office or
position of employment in the City. The Clerk of Council shall keep an accurate
and complete journal of the proceedings of Council and perform such other
duties as this Charter or Council may require. Council shall set a reasonable
salary for the position of Clerk of Council, before any such appointment is
made.
§ 4.07 Special meetings.
   The President of Council or any three (3) members thereof may call special
meetings of Council upon written notice served personally upon each member, or
left at their usual place of residence twenty-four (24) hours previous to the
time fixed for such meeting. Any request for a special meeting and the notice
calling same shall the subject(s) to be considered, and such meeting shall be
limited to a consideration of such subject(s).
§ 4.08 Powers of Council.
   All legislative power of the City shall be vested in the Council except as
otherwise provided by this Charter and The Constitution of the State of Ohio
therefore. Council shall have authority to:
   (1)   Adopt ordinances and resolutions on any subject within the scope of
its powers and provide penalties for the violation thereof;
   (2)   Establish the internal organization, staffing and compensation of the
departments, boards and commissions created by this Charter;
   (3)   Set up such additional departments, boards, or commissions as it may
deem necessary and determine their powers and duties;
   (4)   Adopt and modify the master plan and official map of the City;
   (5)   Have the power to adopt and provide for the enforcement of zoning
classifications, districts, uses and regulations by ordinance as authorized
under the provisions of the Ohio law;
   (6)   Adopt a subdivision platting ordinance and approve subdivision plats
which conform thereto.
   (7)   Enact a comprehensive building code;
   (8)   Adopt an annual appropriation ordinance based upon the annual budget;
   (9)   Appoint and remove, and establish compensation for, the office of
Mayor and Vice-Mayor. The Mayor and Vice-Mayor will be elected biennially from
among the seven Council members. The Mayor shall act as President of Council
and preside over Council, but will have no veto powers. The Mayor will act as a
ceremonial figure for various civic functions where the City should be
represented. The Mayor shall preside over Mayor’s Court and supervise the
bailiff of that Court. The Vice-Mayor shall perform the duties of the Mayor
when the Mayor is absent;
   (10)   Appoint and remove, and establish compensation for, the position of
City Manager, and appoint an acting Manager when necessary;
   (11)   Confirm and remove, and establish compensation for, the position of
City Attorney;
   (12)   Inquire into the conduct of any City officer or employee in the
performance of their functions;
   (13)   Make investigations of any office, department or agency of the City;
   (14)   Employ a public accountant to make an audit of the financial affairs
of the City whenever such audit is deemed necessary or required by law;
   (15)   Provide for the employment of engineering and other professional
services on a consulting basis when deemed necessary; and
   (16)   Issue subpoenas for witnesses and the production of books and papers
which may be necessary in the conduct of any hearing or investigation.
§ 4.09 Forms of action by Council.
   The action of Council shall be by ordinance or resolution. On all matters of
a general or permanent nature, or granting a franchise, or levying a tax, or
appropriating money, or contracting indebtedness, or issuing bonds or notes, or
for the purchase, lease or transfer of property, action shall be taken
formally, by ordinance, in the manner hereinafter provided. Action on all other
matters of a temporary or informal nature may be taken by resolution.
§ 4.10 Enactment of ordinances.
   Each proposed ordinance shall be introduced in writing by a member of the
Council, and, in addition to the title, shall contain an opening clause reading
as follows, “Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Nelsonville, Ohio.”
The action proposed to be taken shall be fully and clearly set forth in the
body of the ordinance. Each ordinance shall contain one subject only, which
shall be d clearly in the title. No ordinance shall be passed without the
concurrence of a majority of all the members elected to Council, except that
emergency ordinances, as hereinafter provided, shall require concurrence of
five (5) members elected to Council for passage. Every ordinance shall be fully
and distinctly read on two (2) different days before its enactment, unless an
emergency is declared as hereinafter provided, or unless, by a vote of five (5)
members elected to Council, the reading in full on two (2) different days is
dispensed with, in which cases such ordinance may be read one (1) time and
passed on the day as such reading. Final passage of all ordinances and
resolutions shall be certified by the Mayor or Vice-Mayor and the Clerk of
Council.
§ 4.11 Effective date.
   Ordinances provided for appropriations for current expenses of the City, or
for public improvements petitioned for by the owners of a majority of the foot
frontage of property benefited and to be specially assessed for the cost
thereof, or for raising revenue, or ordinances wherein an emergency is declared
to exist, shall become effective immediately upon passage or at such later date
as may be provided therein, and such ordinances shall not be subject to
referendum. All other ordinances shall take effect thirty (30) days after
passage. An emergency ordinance as referred to herein is one which must be
passed and made effective at once or in less than thirty (30) days to meet an
emergency in the operation of the City government, or which is necessary for
the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety, morals or
welfare. Each emergency ordinance must contain therein a separate Section
setting forth the reason for the emergency. No ordinance granting a franchise
or fixing a rate to be charged by a public utility shall be passed as an
emergency measure.
§ 4.12 Publication of ordinances.
   Within fourteen (14) days after passage, ordinances required by law to be
published, shall be published by posting the complete text of the ordinance in
each of the four (4) public places in the City, such places to be designated by
Council, for a period of at least fifteen (15) days. In addition, all
ordinances shall be posted on one prominent protected bulletin board in City
Hall for a period of at least fifteen (15) days.
§ 4.13 Initiative and referendum.
   Except as otherwise provided in this Charter, ordinances may be proposed and
submitted to popular vote by initiative and referendum under the procedures set
forth in Ohio law.
§ 4.14 Adoption of standard codes by reference.
   The Council may adopt model or standard codes prepared and published by
public or private agencies on such matters as building construction, plumbing,
heating, ventilation, air conditioning, electric wiring, smoke regulation, fire
prevention and other similar regulatory subjects by reference to the date and
source of the code without reproducing the same in full in the ordinance. At
least six (6) copies of all such Codes shall be kept in the office of the Clerk
of Council for reference and consultation by interested persons during regular
office hours, and additional copies shall always be available for sale, at
cost, by the Clerk of Council. Any standard code adopted in this manner shall
not be required to be published at length.
§ 4.15 Council compensation.
   Compensation of Council members shall be established by ordinance but shall
not be changed during their terms of office, nor by any ordinance passed
subsequent to thirty (30) days before the final date fixed by the general
election laws of Ohio or by provisions of this Charter for filing as candidate
for such office.
   For the first term of service under this Charter, Council members shall
receive a salary of $1,200.00 per year. The President of Council shall receive
an additional $1,200.00.
ARTICLE V - CITY MANAGER
§ 5.01 Approval and removal.
   Council shall appoint a City Manager, herein also referred to as the
Manager, and establish the compensation for that position. A majority vote of
the members elected to Council shall be required for the appointment of the
City Manager. The Council may remove the City Manager from office in accordance
with the following procedures:
   (1)   If the City Manager served less than six (6) months he may be removed
by a two-thirds vote of the members of Council without any right to a public
hearing and without the benefit of the provisions of subsections (2) to (4),
inclusive, of this Section;
   (2)   If the City Manager has served six (6) months or more the Council
shall adopt by a vote of two-thirds of its members a preliminary resolution
which must the reasons for removal and may suspend the City Manager from duty
for a period not to exceed forty-five (45) days. A copy of the resolution shall
be delivered promptly to the City Manager;
   (3)   Within five (5) days after a copy of the resolution is delivered to
the City Manager, he may file with the Clerk of Council a written request for a
public hearing. This hearing shall be held at a regular or special Council
meeting not earlier than fifteen (15) days and no later than thirty (30) days
after the request is filed. The date of the public hearing shall be set by the
City Manager. The City Manager may file with the Clerk of Council a written
reply to the reasons for removal contained in the preliminary resolutions, not
later than five (5) days before the hearing;
   (4)   The Council may adopt a final resolution of removal which may be made
effective immediately, by a vote of two-thirds of its members at any time after
five (5) days from the date when a copy of the preliminary resolution was
delivered to the Mayor, if he has not requested a public hearing, or at any
time after the public hearing, if he has requested one;
   (5)   The City Manager shall continue to receive his salary until the
effective date of a final resolution of removal. The decision of the Council to
suspend or remove the City Manager shall be the sole discretion of the Council
and shall not be subject to review by any Court; or
   (6)   If the City Manager is suspended from duty under subsections (1) or
(2), the Council shall appoint by vote of a majority of the members thereof an
administrative officer who shall serve as acting manager until the City Manager
is restored to duty, or until Council shall appoint another person as Acting
Manager, or until another person is appointed City Manager in accordance with
this Charter. The Acting Manager so appointed shall exercise all powers, duties
and functions of the City Manager under this Charter.
§ 5.02 Qualifications.
   The City Manager shall be appointed solely on the basis of his executive and
administrative qualifications, and need not be a resident of the City at the
time of his appointment, but shall become a resident of the City within six (6)
months after his appointment.
§ 5.03 Acting Manager.
   The City Manager may designate, by letter filed with the Clerk of Council,
any qualified administrative officer of the City to perform his powers, duties
and functions during his temporary absence from the City or during his
disability. Such designation shall not be effective until the Council has
approved it by a majority vote of the members of the Council, and the Council
may revoke such designation by a majority vote of the members thereto. If such
designation has not been made and the Manager is absent from the City or unable
to perform his duties or to make such designation, Council may, by motion,
appoint any qualified administrative officer of the City to perform the powers,
duties and functions of the City Manager during the temporary absence from the
City due to disability of the City Manager.
   In the event of a vacancy in the office of City Manager, the Council may
designate a person as Acting City Manager, who shall exercise all powers,
duties and functions of the City Manager until a City Manager is appointed.
   Upon the recommendation of the City Manager, the Police Chief is hereby
appointed the Acting City Manager in the absence of the City Manager. The City
Manager shall still file with the Clerk of Council the designation of the
Police Chief as Acting City Manager and the term of each designation. City
Council reserves the right pursuant to this Section of the Nelsonville City
Charter to revoke this designation at any time by passage of this ordinance.
§ 5.04 Powers and duties of the City Manager.
   The City Manager shall be the chief executive and administrative officer of
the City. He shall be responsible to the Council for the administration of all
City affairs placed in his charge by or under this Chapter, the ordinances of
the City and Ohio laws. He shall have the following powers and duties:
   (1)   He shall appoint and, when he deems it necessary for the good of the
service, suspend or remove or otherwise discipline all City employees and
appointive administrative officers, except as provided for by or under this
Charter, in the manner provided by the rules adopted by the Civil Service
Commission pursuant to this Charter. He may authorize any administrative
officer who is subject to his direction and supervision to exercise these
powers with respect to subordinates in that officer’s department, division,
office or agency. He shall have the power and authority to appoint various City
positions, including the City Attorney, under this Charter. He shall not have
the power or authority to appoint or remove, suspend or discipline any member
of any board or commission established under this Charter;
   (2)   He shall direct and supervise the administration of all departments,
divisions, offices and agencies of the City, except as otherwise provided by
this Charter;
   (3)   He shall attend all Council meetings and shall have the right to take
part in discussion but may not vote;
   (4)   He shall see that all laws, provisions of this Charter, and ordinances
and resolutions of the Council, subject to enforcement by him or by officers
subject to his direction and supervision, are faithfully executed;
   (5)   He shall prepare and submit the annual budget and capital program to
Council;
   (6)   He shall submit to Council and make available to the public a complete
report on the finances and administrative activities of the City as of the end
of each fiscal year;
   (7)   He shall make such other reports as the Council may require concerning
the operations of City departments, divisions, offices, boards, commissions and
agencies subject to his direction and supervision;
   (8)   He shall make detailed monthly reports to Council fully advising
Council as to the financial condition and future operating and capital needs of
the City and make such recommendations to the Council concerning the affairs of
the City;
   (9)   He shall require reports and information of subordinate officers and
employees of the City as he deems necessary in the orderly operation of the
City, or when requested to do so by Council or any board or commission of the
City;
   (10)   He shall be the contracting officer of the City and shall award and
execute contracts and agreements on behalf of the City in the manner and under
the procedures required by this Charter, provided that:
      (a)   When the expenditure of funds for the purchase of supplies or
materials, or to provide labor for any work to be performed under contract
exceeds the amount specified by the laws of the State of Ohio for which such
purchases or work may be accomplished without advertisement and competitive
bidding, such expenditure shall first be authorized and directed by ordinance
passed by the Council. The City Manager shall recommend to Council the lowest
and best bid, and upon approval of Council, may award a written contract to the
lowest and best bidder after advertisement on the same day of each week for not
less than two (2) nor more than four (4) consecutive weeks in a newspaper
determined by the Council to be of circulation within the City;
      (b)   Compensation of persons and employees; contracts with persons,
firms or corporations for services requiring specialized skill, knowledge, or
training; and expenditures required because of a real and present emergency
arising in connection with the maintenance, operation or repair of City
buildings, equipment and facilities, and City services, when authorized by
ordinance adopted by a two-thirds vote of all members of the Council, need not
be advertised and notices need not be published as provided hereinabove;
      (c)   Modifications and changes to contracts awarded under competitive
bidding, and in excess of One Thousand Dollars ($1,000), shall first be
authorized by ordinance;
      (d)   The City Manager may designate an administrative officer or
employee of the City to act as purchasing agent to award and execute contracts,
orders or agreements on behalf of the City, when such contracts, orders or
agreements do not authorize an expenditure of money in excess of Five Thousand
Dollars ($5,000); and
      (e)   The City Manager or any other person designated by him as
purchasing agent shall not willfully cause or allow any contract or order to be
split or divided into separate orders or contracts in order to avoid the
requirements of subsection (4) above, or the requirements of competitive
bidding as provided by this Charter.
   (11)   He shall execute on behalf of the City all contracts and agreements,
except as otherwise hereinabove provided by paragraph (10) of this Section
regarding the designation of a purchasing agent, conveyances, evidences of
indebtedness and other instruments to which the City is a party;
   (12)   He shall affix to official documents and instruments of the City the
City Manager’s Seal which shall be the seal of the City, but the absence of the
seal shall not affect the validity of any such document or instrument;
   (13)   He shall perform such duties and have such other powers as are
conferred or required by this Charter, by any ordinance or resolution of the
Council, or by the laws of the State of Ohio; and
   (14)   He shall endeavor to actively pursue the awarding of grants to aid in
the operation of the City.
§ 5.05 Council, Manager relations.
   Neither the Council nor any of its members shall in any manner dictate the
appointment or removal of any administrative officers or employees whom the
City Manager or any of his subordinates are empowered to appoint, unless
otherwise provided by this Charter, but the Council may express its views and
fully and freely discuss with the Manager anything pertaining to appointment
and removal of such officers and employees. Except for the purpose of inquiries
and investigations, the Council or its members shall deal with officers and
employees who are subject to the direction and supervision of the City Manager
solely through the Manager, and neither the Council nor its members shall give
orders to any such officer or employee, either publicly or privately, except
that the Council may require of the Departments of Law and Finance such
reports, information, and opinions as Council shall determine. This Section
shall not be construed as limiting the power of Council to remove or suspend
the City Manager because of his practices in connection with the appointment,
promotion, disciplining or removal of officers and employees of the City.
ARTICLE VI - ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENTS
§ 6.01 Creation of departments.
   The administrative functions of the City shall be carried on by the
departments of Law, Finance, Public Safety, and Public Service. This Section
shall not preclude the Council from providing for such services by contract or
through joint participation with other governmental agencies.
§ 6.02 Creation of new departments.
   The Council may, by ordinance or resolution, create, change or abolish any
office, department, division, or subunit of any department or division, or
agency, other than those established by the Charter. Council may assign
additional duties to any department established by this Charter, but may not
discontinue or assign to any other office, department, or agency, any function
assigned by this Charter to a particular office, department, or agency.
§ 6.03 Department directors and division heads.
   Unless otherwise provided by this Charter, the Director of each department
shall be the Manager. Unless otherwise provided by this Charter, the head of
each division shall be a part-time or full-time Division Head, appointed by the
City Manager and approved by a majority vote of Council, who shall exercise
division supervision and control subject to the direction of the Manager. Two
(2) or more divisions may be headed by the same person, and the Manager, with
approval of Council, may serve as the division head of one (1) or more
divisions. Each division head shall be an administrative officer of the City.
§ 6.04 Administrative Code.
   Subject to the provisions of this Charter, Council shall, by ordinance or
resolution, adopt, revise or repeal an ordinance or resolution referred to as
the Administrative Code, which Code shall provide for the organization of the
City government that is consistent with this Charter, define the powers and
duties of each organizational unit, and determine administrative procedures.
Council may delegate to the City Manager the power to make rules and
regulations to govern management practices, consistent with this Charter, the
Administrative Code and other ordinances and resolutions.
§ 6.05 Department of Law.
   There shall be a Department of Law, the head of which shall be the City
Attorney. The City Attorney shall be an attorney-at-law, qualified to practice
law in the State of Ohio, appointed by the City Manager subject to approval by
a majority vote of City Council.
   A law firm, as well as an individual attorney, may serve as the City
Attorney and in that case, the person designated by the law firm shall serve
with the title of City Attorney, and other persons so designated may serve as
Acting City Attorney with all the power, duties and functions of the City
Attorney when the person designated as City Attorney is not available. The City
Attorney shall serve as the chief legal advisor to Council, the City Manager,
and all city departments, divisions, offices and other agencies, boards or
commissions. The City Attorney shall represent the City in all legal
proceedings and shall perform any other duties prescribed by this Charter, by
ordinance or resolution or by the Administrative Code or the general laws of
Ohio, except that the person or firm holding the office of City Attorney shall
not be required to represent any school district or any other unit of
government, other than the City, by virtue of holding the office of City
Attorney. When necessary, the Council may appoint special legal counsel to
represent the City, together with or in place of the City Attorney. The City
Attorney shall be present at all Council meetings, and may be requested to
attend any Commission and Board meetings. The person or firm holding the office
of City Attorney shall not be required to be resident of the City.
§ 6.06 Department of Finance.
   The direction of and the responsibility for the Department of Finance shall
be split between the City Auditor and the City Treasurer, each being elected by
the public. Each shall be solely responsible for the operation of their office
as prescribed by this Charter and the laws of Ohio.
§ 6.06.01 Auditor: term.
   The City Auditor, herein referred to as the Auditor, shall be elected at the
regular municipal election held in the year 1995 and every four (4) years
thereafter, for a term of four (4) years, commencing on the first day of
December next after such election, and shall serve until succeeded as in this
Charter provided. The office of Auditor shall be a nonpartisan office.
§ 6.06.02 Auditor: qualifications.
   No person shall be eligible to hold office of Auditor unless he shall have
been continuously a resident and a qualified elector of the City for one (1)
year next prior to his election. The Auditor shall continue to be a resident
and qualified elector of the City throughout his term of office, failing which
Council shall remove him from office.
§ 6.06.03 Auditor: powers and duties.
   The Auditor shall attend all regular meetings of Council, and may be
requested to attend any special or committee meetings. The Auditor (and the
Manager) shall execute on behalf of the City all contracts, conveyances,
evidences of indebtedness and all other instruments to which the City is a
party.
   The Auditor shall be the fiscal officer of the City. He shall serve the
Manager and the Council as financial adviser in connection with City affairs,
shall be responsible for the preparation and submission of the annual estimate
of receipts and expenditures and appropriation measures and shall at all times
keep the Manager and Council informed of the financial condition and needs of
the City. He shall authenticate all records, documents and instruments of the
City on which authentication are proper. The Auditor shall examine all
payrolls, bills and other claims against the City and shall issue no warrant
unless he shall find that the claim is in proper form, correctly computed and
duly approved, that it is due and payable, that a lawful appropriation has been
made therefore, and that the amount required to pay said claim is in the
treasury or in process of collection to the credit of an appropriate fund free
from any previous encumbrances. He shall perform such other duties consistent
with their office as the Manager or the Council may request and shall comply
with the laws of Ohio relating to certifications for expenditures of public
moneys.
§ 6.06.04 Auditor: compensation.
   The Council shall fix the salary of the Auditor, which salary, for the term
of 1995 through 1999, shall be fixed by Council prior to August 1, 1995.
   If the established salary of the Auditor is to be changed or adjusted in
respect to a succeeding term of Office, such change or adjustment must be made
by Council not later than February 1st of the last year of the elective term
then being served by the Auditor but the salary shall not be increased or
decreased during the elective term of office which is then being served by the
Auditor. Unless and until the salary is changed, it shall remain as last fixed.
§ 6.06.05 Auditor: vacancy.
   When a vacancy occurs in the office of Auditor, the vacancy shall be filled
by an appointment made by the Manager, subject to confirmation by a majority of
the members of Council, and the person so appointed shall serve for the
unexpired term or until succeeded as in this Charter provided.
§ 6.06.06 Auditor: staff.
   The Auditor shall have a staff of two (2) employees. They shall be titled
the Deputy Auditor and the City Tax Clerk. They shall be hired subject to the
requirements of the Civil Service provisions, where applicable, and shall be
subject to a job description as provided by the City Auditor. Council may
approve to increase or decrease this staff, but Council may never decrease
below a staff of two (2).
§ 6.06.07 Treasurer: term.
   The City Treasurer, herein also referred to as the Treasurer, shall be
elected at the regular municipal election held in the year 1995 and 1997, and
every four (4) years thereafter, for a term of four (4) years, commencing on
the 1st day of December next after such election, and shall serve until
succeeded as in this Charter provided. The office of City Treasurer shall be a
nonpartisan office.
§ 6.06.08 Treasurer: qualifications.
   No person shall be eligible to hold the office of Treasurer unless he shall
have been continuously a resident and a qualified elector of the City for one
(1) year next prior to his election. The Treasurer shall continue to be a
resident and qualified elector of the City throughout his term of office,
failing which Council shall remove him from office.
§ 6.06.09 Treasurer: powers and duties.
   The Treasurer shall be custodian of all moneys of the City and of all
evidences of investments of City moneys, and shall keep and preserve the same
in such public depositories as are authorized by the laws of the State of Ohio
or by ordinance of Council. They shall pay out money from the City treasury
only on warrants issued by the Auditor. They shall keep a detailed record of
all receipts from taxes and other sources, as well as a detailed record of all
disbursements of City moneys and a record of the expenditures from various
appropriated funds.
§ 6.06.10 Treasurer: compensation.
   The Council shall fix the salary of the Treasurer, which salary, for the
term of 1995 through 1997, shall be fixed by Council prior to August 1, 1995.
   If the established salary of the Treasurer is to be changed or adjusted in
respect to a succeeding term of office, such change or adjustment must be made
by Council not later than February 1st of the last year of the elective term
then being served by the Treasurer, but the salary shall not be increased or
decreased during the elective term of office which is then being served by the
Treasurer. Unless and until the salary is changed, it shall remain as last
fixed.
§ 6.06.11 Treasurer: vacancy.
   When a vacancy occurs in the office of Treasurer, the vacancy shall be
filled by an appointment made by the Manager, subject to confirmation by a
majority of the members of Council, and the person so appointed shall serve for
the unexpired term or until succeeded as in this Charter provided.
§ 6.07 Department of Public Safety.
   There shall be a Department of Public Service, the head of which shall be
the City Manager. The Department of Public Service shall be responsible for the
general supervision, custody, care and maintenance of the public buildings,
grounds, streets, sewers, utilities, cemeteries and property owned or operated
by the City. The department shall consist of four (4) divisions: Water, Water
Distribution, Sewers, and Streets, with each division having its own Division
Head.
§ 6.07.01 Division of Water.
   The direction of and the responsibility for the Division of Water shall be
vested in the Manager. The Division Head shall be appointed by the Manager with
the majority approval of Council, and shall report to the Manager for
administrative purposes. The appointment of all members of the Division of
Water shall be made by the Manager, subject to the requirements of the Civil
Service Provisions where applicable.
§ 6.07.02 Division of Water Distribution.
   The direction of and the responsibility for the Division of Water
Distribution shall be vested in the Manager. The Division Head shall be
appointed by the Manager with the majority approval of Council, and shall
report to the Manager for administrative purposes. The appointment of all
members of the Division of Water Distribution shall be made by the Manager,
subject to the requirements of the Civil Service Provisions where applicable.
§ 6.07.03 Division of Sewers.
   The direction of and the responsibility for the Division of Sewers shall be
vested in the Manager. The Division Head shall be appointed by the Manager with
the majority approval of Council, and shall report to the Manager for
administrative purposes. The appointment of all members of the Division of
Sewers shall be made by the Manager, subject to the requirements of the Civil
Service Provisions where applicable.
§ 6.07.04 Division of Streets.
   The direction of and the responsibility for the Division of Streets shall be
vested in the Manager. The Division Head shall be appointed by the manager with
the majority approval of Council, and shall report to the Manager for
administrative purposes. The appointment of all members of the Division of
Streets shall be made by the Manager, subject to the requirements of the Civil
Service Provisions where applicable.
§ 6.08 Department of Public Safety.
   There shall be a Department of Public Safety, the administrative head of
which shall be the City Manager.
§ 6.08.01 Division of Police.
   The Division of Police as presently established shall continue in existence.
The operating rules and procedures shall be under the direction of a Chief of
Police who shall report to the Manager for administrative purposes. The
appointment and removal of all members of the Division of Police, excluding the
appointment of the Chief of Police, shall be made by the Manager with approval
of the majority of Council, subject to the requirements of the Civil Service
Provisions where applicable.
§ 6.08.02 Division of Fire.
   The Division of Fire as presently established shall continue in existence.
The operating rules and procedures shall be under the direction of a Chief of
Fire who shall report to the Manager for administrative purposes. The
appointment and removal of all members of the Division of Fire, excluding the
appointment of the Chief of Fire, shall be made by the Manager with approval of
the majority of Council, subject to the requirements of the Civil Service
Provisions where applicable.
§ 6.08.03 Residence requirements.
   As of January 1, 2001, all new employees of the Department of Public Safety
must reside within 25 miles of the corporate limits of the City, within one (1)
year after completing their probation.
§ 6.08.04 Procedure for appointment of Police and Fire Chief.
   The City Manager, by rule and regulation subject to Council’s approval,
shall provide for and develop procedures for the operation of a review board to
consider applicants for a vacancy in the office of Chief of Police and Chief of
Fire. The Civil Service Commission shall adopt rules and regulations for the
certification to the review board of the names of the applicants who receive
the top five scores on the written examination for the position of Chief of
Police and Chief of Fire without regard to whether or not any individual whose
name is so certified is serving or has served previously with the Nelsonville
Police Department of the Nelsonville Fire Department.
   The Review Board established in Section 6.08.4 of this Charter shall consist
of four (4) members, two being Chiefs from surrounding communities, plus the
City Manager. The appointment of the four (4) members shall be made by the City
Manager with approval of the majority of Council. Each time the Review Board is
convened, the members of the Review Board shall be compensated for their
services.
   The Review Board shall interview each applicant certified to them, and
thereafter shall submit to the City Manager the names of the top (3) applicants
whom the Review Board by consensus or by majority vote, finds to be the best
qualified for the appointment to the vacancy. The Review Board, in its
discretion may rank the candidates in order of preference. Each applicant shall
be interviewed concerning the following areas applicable to either the Police
or Fire Chief: procedure skills, administrative skills, and leadership skills.
A psychological evaluation shall be performed on each applicant. In making its
selection, the Review Board shall consider each applicant’s job experience,
education, and work history, as well as skills, knowledge, and abilities shown
by the applicant during the Review Board process. The Review Board shall be
supplied with any materials necessary to make an informed decision.
   The appointment of the Police Chief or Fire Chief shall be made by the City
Manager with the approval of majority of Council from the list submitted by the
Review Board. Should either the City Manager or City Council decline to make an
appointment from the Review Board list, the process shall be repeated after the
City Manager calls for a new Civil Service test.
ARTICLE VII - BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
§ 7.01 Creation of boards and commissions.
   The Boards and Commissions of the City shall include: A Civil Service
Commission; a Planning Commission; a Board of Zoning Appeals; a Board of Parks
and Recreation; and such other boards and commissions as may be created by
Council by ordinance or resolution.
§ 7.02 Appointment of members of boards and commissions.
   By concurrence of a majority of its members then holding office, Council
shall have the power to appoint members of boards and commissions. Vacancies on
boards and commissions shall be filled by a majority vote of the members of
Council then holding office for the unexpired term of office.
§ 7.03 General rules for boards and commissions.
   A.   Unless otherwise provided for in this Charter:
      (1)   Members of a board or commission of the City shall be electors of
the City;
      (2)   Each board or commission shall elect a Chairperson and Vice
Chairperson, and shall appoint a Secretary, which Secretary may be (1) a member
of the board or commission or (2) hold other employment with the City, if the
Manager approves of the person holding such other employment to serve as the
Secretary;
      (3)   Each board or commission shall keep a journal or other records of
its proceedings;
      (4)   Each board or commission shall establish its own rules for its
operation, which rules shall not conflict with this Charter or the City’s
ordinances or resolutions;
      (5)   All members of boards and commissions shall serve without
compensation unless otherwise provided for by the Council by ordinance or
resolution;
      (6)   The City Manager, or the Manager’s designee, shall be an ex officio
member, without voting power, of each board and commission except the Civil
Service Commission; and
      (7)   Boards and commissions shall have all powers and shall perform all
duties and functions imposed upon them by this Charter and the City’s
ordinances and resolutions.
   B.   A majority vote of the members of the board or commission then holding
office shall be required to take action.
§ 7.04 The Civil Service Commission.
   A.   Composition and Term.
   The Civil Service Commission shall consist of three (3) electors of the
City, not holding other municipal office, to be appointed for a term of six (6)
years, except that of the three first appointed, one shall be appointed for a
term of two (2) years, one for a term of four (4) years, and one for a term of
six (6) years.
   B.   Duties.
   The Civil Service Commission shall provide by rule for the ascertainment of
merit and fitness as the basis for appointment and promotion of all regular
employees in the service of the City as required by the Constitution and laws
of Ohio, and for appeals from the action of the City Manager in any case of
transfer, reduction or removal. The action of the Commission on any such appeal
shall be final, except as otherwise provided by the laws of Ohio.
   Civil Service examination shall not be required for the appointment of any
member of a board or commission, or to the Clerk, or to appointment to any
office or position requiring professional or exceptional qualifications.
   All permanent employees who have had at least twelve (12) months service
with this City prior to the effective date of this Section may be retained in
the same or any similar position without examinations. Except as herein
provided, the Civil Service Commission shall determine the practicability of
competitive examinations for any non-elective office or job classification in
the service of the City.
§ 7.05 City Planning Commission.
   The Planning Commission shall consist of five (5) members serving
overlapping terms of five (5) years each, provided that initial appointments
under this Charter shall be as follows: One for a term of one (1) year, one for
a term of two (2) years, one for a term of three (3) years, one for a term of
four (4) years, and one for a term of five (5) years.
   The Council, by ordinance or resolution, shall designate the Planning
Commission to serve as the platting commission of the City, and the Commission
shall have control of platting and shall recommend regulations to Council
covering the platting of all lands within the City.
   The Planning Commission shall recommend to Council, for the Council’s
adoption with or without revisions thereto, a comprehensive general plan or
revisions thereto for the physical development of the City, which shall
include, but not be limited to: The location of public ways, property, bridges,
utilities, buildings, parks, playgrounds, bikeways, and recreation areas. The
comprehensive general plan shall show the existing school locations in the City
and shall show the projected locations of all new schools as determined by the
governing board of the appropriate school district.
   The Planning Commission shall prepare and recommend to Council such
ordinances and resolutions as will promote the general welfare of the City and
its inhabitants; recommend for the Council’s approval a base map to be titled
the “Official Map of the City of Nelsonville”; and exercise control over the
subdivision of lands and the improvement or development thereof as authorized
by the City’s ordinances and resolutions.
   In the performance of its functions, the Planning Commission may enter upon
any land in a lawful manner to make examinations and surveys, and place and
maintain necessary monuments and markers thereon. The Planning Commission shall
have such other powers and perform such other duties and functions as provided
by the City’s ordinances and resolutions.
§ 7.06 Board of Zoning Appeals.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall consist of five (5) members serving
overlapping terms of five (5) years each. The first members appointed under
this Charter shall be appointed for terms as follows: One for a term of one (1)
year, one for a term of two (2) years, one for a term of three (3) years, one
for a term of four (4) years, and one for a term of five (5) years.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hear and determine applications for
variances from the provisions of any zoning ordinances and resolutions, in
harmony with the intent and purposes of any zoning ordinances and resolutions
and in accordance with procedures provided therein. The Board of Zoning Appeals
shall also hear and determine appeals from any order, requirement, decision, or
determination made by the administrative department or administrative officer
who is in charge of the enforcement and application of any zoning ordinances
and resolutions. The Board shall have such other powers and perform such other
duties and functions as provided by ordinance or resolution.
§ 7.07 Board of Parks and Recreation.
   The Board of Parks and Recreation shall consist of five (5) members serving
overlapping terms of five (5) years each. The first members appointed under
this Charter shall be appointed for terms as follows: One for a term of one (1)
year, one for a term of two (2) years, one for a term of three (3) years, one
for a term of four (4) years, and one for a term of five (5) years.
   It shall be the function and duty of the Board of Parks and Recreation to
recommend a program to Council for the operation of public parks, recreation
facilities, and the acquisition, improvement, construction and maintenance of
the parks, parkways, bikeways, and any other services related thereto. The
Board’s functions and duties shall be advisory only.
ARTICLE VIII - FINANCE, TAXATION AND DEBT
§ 8.01 General.
   The laws of Ohio relating to budgets, appropriations, taxation, debt, bonds
and notes, assessments, and other fiscal matters of the City shall be
applicable to the City, except as such laws are modified by or are inconsistent
with the provisions of this Charter, or when provisions for such matters are
made in the Constitution of Ohio.
§ 8.02 Capital Improvements Plan.
   A.   Submission to Council.
   The City Manager shall prepare and submit to Council a five (5) year Capital
Improvement Plan, or revision thereto, at least one (1) month prior to the
final date for submission of the tax budget to the Council.
   B.   Contents.
   The Capital Improvement Plan shall include:
      (1)   A clear, general summary of its contents;
      (2)   a list of all capital improvements which are proposed to be
undertaken during the five (5) fiscal years next ensuing, with appropriate
supporting information as to the necessity for such improvements;
      (3)   cost estimates, methods of financing and recommended time schedules
for each improvement; and
      (4)   the estimated annual cost of operating and maintaining the
facilities to be constructed or acquired.
   C.   Adoption by Council.
   The Council, by ordinance or resolution, shall adopt the Capital
Improvements Plan, with or without amendment, prior to adoption of the tax
budget. The Capital Improvements Plan shall be advisory only and shall not
affect the validity of any tax budget and shall not prevent the Council from
undertaking capital improvements, or the issuance of debt therefore, which are
not shown in or are inconsistent with the Capital Improvements Plan.
§ 8.03 Temporary appropriations.
   If the annual appropriation measure is not adopted by the first day of
January, the Council may, by ordinance or resolution, provide for temporary
appropriations. If a temporary appropriations measure is not adopted, the
amounts appropriated for the preceding fiscal year shall be deemed appropriated
for the ensuing fiscal year on a month-to-month basis, with all items prorated
accordingly, until such time as Council adopts the annual appropriations
resolution for the ensuing year.
§ 8.04 Income tax.
   After the effective date of this Charter the Council shall not have the
power to adopt and levy a City income tax without the approval of a majority
vote of the electors voting on such issue at a general, primary or special
election.
§ 8.05 Purchasing and contracting; competitive bidding.
   A.   The Manager shall award all contracts in manner consistent with
subsections (j) and (k) of Section
5.04 of this Charter. Where competitive bidding is required pursuant to
Council’s determination under subsection (B) of this Section, the contract
shall be awarded to the lowest and best bidder.
   B.   The Council shall, by ordinance or resolution, provide for:
      (1)   The circumstances under which competitive bidding shall be
required, including but not limited to the amount of an expenditure to be made
pursuant to a contract above which bidding shall be required; contractual
expenditures which shall be exempted from competitive bidding requirements; and
the procedure to be followed where bidding is required. The Council may, by
ordinance or resolution, exempt any specific contract or contractual
expenditure from bidding requirements which would, under the City’s general
ordinances or resolutions, is subject to bidding.
      (2)   All other matters relating to the contracting powers and procedures
of the City. Until the Council acts pursuant to subsection (B) of this Section,
the general laws of Ohio shall apply with respect to the matters described in
this subsection B.
ARTICLE IX - NOMINATIONS AND ELECTIONS
§ 9.01 City elections.
   All City elections shall be on a non-partisan basis and there shall be no
party designation on either nominating petitions or ballots for any City
office.
   Both regular and special City elections shall be conducted by the Board of
Elections of Athens County, Ohio, under the provisions of this Charter. Where
this Charter is silent, the provisions of the election laws of the State of
Ohio shall apply.
   Regular City elections shall be held on the first Tuesday after the first
Monday in November in the odd numbered years. Any matter which, by the terms of
this Charter, may be submitted to the electors of the City at any special
election may be submitted at the time of a primary election or of a general
election.
   The candidates for any office, equal in number to the places to be filled,
who shall receive the highest number of votes, shall be declared elected.
   Passage of tax levies and bond issues shall require an affirmative vote of a
simple majority of those voting therein.
   In case of a tie between candidates or issues, the plan of the laws of the
State of Ohio shall be followed concerning such emergencies.
§ 9.02 Nominations.
   Qualifications as a candidate for City office shall be a petition signed by
not less than fifty (50) electors of the City. Petitions shall be standard
forms provided by the election authorities under the general laws for the
nomination of individual non-partisan candidates for municipal offices. Group
petitions shall not be used. Petitions shall be filed with the Board of
Elections in the time and manner prescribed by the general laws of Ohio.
§ 9.03 Absence of general laws.
   Whenever the general laws of Ohio do not provide for the procedures or the
method of conducting elections or the nomination of officers, and this Charter
refers to the general laws, the Council shall, by ordinance or resolution,
provide the necessary procedure to implement this Charter’s provisions.
ARTICLE X - INITIATIVE, REFERENDUM AND RECALL
§ 10.01 General authority.
   A.   Initiative.
   The qualified voters of the City shall have the power to propose ordinances
or resolutions to Council provided that such power shall apply only to the
first ordinance, resolution or other measure required to be passed and not to
any subsequent ordinances, resolutions or other measures relating thereto, and
further provided that such power shall not extend to the tax budget or any
ordinance relating to the appropriation of money or salaries of non-elected
City Officers or employees. If Council fails to adopt an ordinance or
resolution so proposed without any change in substance, the voters may adopt or
reject said ordinance or resolution at a general, primary or special election.
   B.   Referendum.
   The qualified voters of the City shall have the power to reject any adopted
ordinance or resolution provided that the power to reject shall apply only to
the first ordinance, resolution or other measure required to be passed and not
to any subsequent ordinances, resolutions or other measures relating thereto,
and further provided that such power to reject ordinances and resolutions shall
not extend to the tax budget, or any other ordinance relating to the
appropriation of money or salaries of non-elected City officers or employees or
ordinances or resolutions adopted as emergency measures. The voters may approve
or reject such ordinance or resolution at a general, primary or special
election.
   C.   Recall.
   The qualified voters of the City shall have the power to propose the removal
of any elected City official as herein provided, and if said official fails to
resign, to remove said official by majority vote of those electors voting on
the issue.
§ 10.02 Commencement of proceedings; petitioner’s committee.
   A.   Any five (5) qualified voters may commence initiative, referendum or
recall proceedings by filing with the Clerk of Council a written statement that
they constitute the petitioner’s committee and will be responsible for
circulating and filing the petition in proper form and in such compliance with
all applicable general laws of Ohio. Such statement shall list the names and
addresses of all committee members, specify a mailing address for the
committee, and set out in full, the proposed initiative ordinance, the
ordinance sought to be considered, or the office and name of the official to be
considered for recall and shall be accompanied by a non-refundable fee of fifty
dollars ($50.00) payable to the City.
   B.   Upon the filing of a petitioners’ statement, the Clerk of Council shall
promptly inform the Council of the committee’s intent. Within ten (10) days of
receipt of a petition, the Clerk of Council shall determine its sufficiency and
advise the petitioners’ committee and Council of such findings. If the petition
is found to be sufficient, Council shall pass an ordinance at its next regular
meeting that the issue be placed on the ballot in accordance with Ohio law. If
the Clerk of Council finds the petition deficient, the Clerk shall inform the
petitioners’ committee of such deficiency and return the petition. The
petitioners’ committee shall have thirty (30) days in which to correct the
petition, and failure to do so shall void the petition.
§ 10.03 Petitions.
   A.   Number of signatures.
   Initiative, referendum and recall petitions must be signed by qualified
electors of the City in number to at least fifteen percent (15%) of the total
number of the votes cast within the City in the last gubernatorial election.
   B.   Form and content.
   All papers of a petition shall be uniform in size and style and shall be
assembled as one instrument for filing. Each signature shall be executed in ink
or indelible pencil, and shall be followed by the address of the person
signing. Petitions shall contain, or have attached thereto throughout their
circulation, the full text of the ordinance or resolution proposed, or sought
to be reconsidered, or the name and office of the official to be recalled.
   C.   Procedure.
   Each petition shall be circulated and signed in the manner prescribed by
applicable law and not in conflict with the provisions of this Charter.
   D.   Time for filing referendum petitions.
   Referendum petitions must be filed within thirty (30) days after adoption by
Council of the ordinance or resolution sought to be reconsidered. All petitions
shall be filed with the election authorities. The election authorities shall
review same for sufficiency according to law, and shall notify both the
petitioners’ committee and the Clerk of Council as to the outcome of said
review.
§ 10.04 Referendum petitions; suspension of effect of ordinance.
   When a referendum petition is filed with the Clerk of Council, the ordinance
or resolution sought to be reconsidered shall be suspended from taking effect.
Such suspension shall terminate when:
      (1)   there is a final determination of insufficiency of the petition;
      (2)   the petitioners’ committee withdraws the petition;
      (3)   the Council repeals the ordinance or resolution; or
      (4)   the electors of the City have approved the adoption of the
ordinance or resolution and the election authorities have certified the results
of the election.
§ 10.05 Action of petitions.
   A.   Submission to voters.
   The vote of the electors of the City on a proposed or referred ordinance or
resolution shall be held at the next scheduled general or primary election or a
special election called by Council, not less than seventy-five (75) days after
the ordinance or resolution is certified by the election authorities.
   B.   Action by official.
   When a recall petition has been determined sufficient, the City official
shall have ten (10) days to resign. If said official fails to resign during the
ten-day period, a recall election shall be held at the next general or primary
election or at the next possible special election called by Council, if the
next scheduled general or primary election or a special election called by
Council shall not occur within seventy-five (75) days.
   C.   Withdrawal of petitions.
   An initiative, referendum or recall petition may be withdrawn at any time
prior to the fifteenth (15th) day preceding the day scheduled for a vote of the
electors in the City, by filing with the Clerk of Council a request for
withdrawal signed by at least four (4) members of the petitioners’ committee.
Upon the filing of such request, the petition shall have no further force or
effect and all proceedings therein shall be terminated.
§ 10.06 Results of election.
   A.   Initiative.
   If a majority of the qualified electors voting on a proposed initiative vote
in its favor, such initiative shall be considered adopted upon certification of
the results and shall be treated in all respects in the same manner as
ordinances or resolutions of the same kind adopted by Council. If conflicting
ordinances or resolutions are approved at the same election, the one receiving
the greatest number of affirmative votes shall prevail to the extent of such
conflict.
   B.   Referendum.
   If a majority of the qualified electors vote on a referred ordinance or
resolution vote for its passage, such ordinance or resolution shall take effect
upon the certification of the election results.
   C.   Recall.
   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are in favor of recall,
the official in questions shall forfeit office upon certification of the
election results. Such vacancy shall be filled as set forth in this Charter.
The official recalled shall be ineligible to hold any City office for the
remainder of the unexpired term of said office. If the majority of the votes
cast at a recall election are against the recall, the official may not again be
subject to recall for a period of eighteen (18) months after the election at
which he was unsuccessfully subjected to recall.
ARTICLE XI - GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 11.01 Oath of office.
   All officers of the City shall, before entering upon their offices, take and
subscribe an appropriate oath or affirmation to be filed and kept in the office
of the Clerk of Council.
§ 11.02 Official bonds.
   The City shall pay the costs of all surety bonds for those of its officers
and employees that are required by the Council to be bonded. The amount of such
bonds shall be established by Council. Surety bonds shall be issued by a
company authorized to do business in the State of Ohio, and such bonds shall be
approved as to form and content by the City Attorney.
§ 11.03 Fees.
   All fees and costs received directly by officers or employees of the City in
connection with the performance of their official duties and functions that are
included within the scope of their office or employment with the City shall be
accounted for and paid into the City’s treasury.
§ 11.04 Amendments.
   This Charter may be amended as provided in Article XVIII of the Ohio
Constitution.
§ 11.05 Conflicting amendments.
   In the event conflicting amendments of the Charter are approved at the same
election by a majority of the total number of votes cast, the amendment
receiving the highest number of affirmative votes shall prevail to the extent
of such conflict.
§ 11.06 Effect of partial invalidity.
   A determination that all or any part of any Article, Section or Division of
this Charter is invalid shall not invalidate or impair the force and effect of
any other part, except to the extent that the other part is wholly dependent
for its operation upon the part declared invalid.
§ 11.07 Political activity.
   A.   Except for one’s own campaign, no employee or officer of the City,
other than an elected official or a member of a board or commission of the
City, shall:
      (1)   solicit or receive any contributions to the campaign funds of any
candidate for City office; or
      (2)   take any part in the campaign for the office of any candidate for
City office other than to vote and to express personal opinions.
§ 11.08 Removal of official.
   A.   The Council members and members of boards and commissions shall be
removed for cause as provided in this Section of this Charter.
   B.   The Charging Official having reason to believe there is probable cause
(as such causes are defined in this Section) for the removal of a Council
member or member of a board or commission, shall give notice of the alleged
cause for removal and the time, date and place of the commencement of hearing
for removal, which shall not be earlier than ten (10) days after the service of
the notice to the accused person by personal service, certified mail, or by
leaving a copy of such notice at the person’s last known place of residence in
the City. At such time, date and place, and at any adjourned meetings, the
Council shall hear, provide an opportunity to the accused person to be heard
and present defense, and determine whether the accused person shall be removed
from office. The Council shall remove an official for any of the following
causes by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the Council members then holding office,
providing that if the accused person is a Council member, such person shall not
vote on any matter during the removal procedures and shall not be counted in
determining required majorities:
      (1)   Failure to possess or maintain the qualifications of the office
prescribed by this Charter;
      (2)   Intentional violation of Section
5.05 of this Charter;
      (3)   Conviction of a felony; or
      (4)   Unexcused absence from any three (3) consecutive regular meetings
of the Council, board or commission on which such person serves. An absence
from a regular meeting may be excused by a majority vote of the members of the
Council then holding office, or by a majority vote of the members of the board
or commission then holding office on which such person serves. Such absence may
be excused at any time, including the excusing of any absence after the action
is initiated but prior to the commencement of hearings for the person’s removal
under this Section.
   C.   Upon the removal of an official from office pursuant to this Section,
the office of the offending person shall be vacant, subject to any appeal to
and review by an appropriate Court, and the vacancy shall be filled as provided
in this Charter.
   D.   The removal of an official or the occurrence of any of the causes
permitting the removal shall not invalidate any official action of the Council,
board or commission in which the member participated. The subsequent removal of
a person, who fills a vacancy created pursuant to this Section by the
reinstatement by a Court of a person previously removed by the council, shall
not invalidate any action of the person who filled the vacancy or the Council,
board or commission in which such person who filled the vacancy participated.
   E.   The Council shall be the judge of the grounds for removal from office
and shall conduct the proceedings relative to removal. The Council shall have
the power to subpoena witnesses, administer oaths and require the producing of
evidence, either on its own motion or through the process of any appropriate
Court or officer thereof. A person charged with conduct constituting grounds
for removal from office shall be entitled to a public hearing on demand, but in
any case, a record of the proceedings shall be made and preserved. If a public
hearing is demanded, a notice of such hearing shall be published in one or more
newspapers of general circulation in the City at least one (1) week in advance
of the hearing, and in such an event, the Charging Official may reschedule the
time, date and place of the hearing to accommodate the publication of the
notice. If the hearing is rescheduled, the Charging Official shall notify the
accused person of such fact. Decisions made by the Council under this Section
shall be subject to review by the Courts on matters of law and whether the
Council acted arbitrarily and without probative evidence to support the grounds
for removal.
   F.   Council shall request the County Prosecutor or his designee to
prosecute the removal proceedings before the Council and any reviews thereof by
the Courts. If the County Prosecutor refuses to accept the responsibility,
Council shall appoint a Special Prosecutor who shall prosecute the removal
proceedings before the Council and any reviews thereof by the Courts. If a
person accused is not finally removed, the City shall pay the reasonable costs
of the defense of such persons and any compensation withheld pending the appeal
of the action of the Council.
§ 11.09 Conflicts of interest; ethics; campaign financing.
   The laws of Ohio pertaining to conflicts of interest, criminal misbehavior,
ethics and financial disclosure by City officials and employees, and campaign
financing and other election practices of candidates for City office shall
apply under this Charter.
§ 11.10 Succession.
   The City of Nelsonville under this Charter is hereby declared to be the
legal successor of the City of Nelsonville under the laws of Ohio; and shall
have title to all property, real and personal, owned by its predecessor,
including all moneys on deposit and all taxes or assessments in process of
collection, together with all accounts receivable and rights of action, the
City shall be liable for all outstanding orders, contracts and debts of its
predecessor, and any other obligations for which it may be held liable by any
Court with jurisdiction. All contracts entered into by the City or for its
benefit prior to the effective date of this Charter shall continue in full
force and effort.
§ 11.11 Effect of Charter on existing laws and rights.
   A.   The adoption of this Charter shall not affect any pre-existing rights
of the City nor any right, liability, pending suit or prosecution, either on
behalf of or against the City or any officer thereof, nor any franchise granted
by the City nor pending proceedings for the authorization of public
improvements or the levy of assessments thereof. Except as a contrary intent
appears in this Charter, all acts of Council of the City including ordinances
and resolutions in effect the date this Charter becomes effective, shall
continue in effect until amended or repealed.
   B.   No action or proceeding pending against the City or an officer thereof
shall be abated or affected by the adoption of this Charter. All actions or
proceedings shall be prosecuted or defended under the laws in effect at the
time they were filed.
ARTICLE XII - TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
§ 12.01 Effective date.
   A.   This Charter shall be submitted to the electors of the City of
Nelsonville, Ohio, at an election to be held on November 8, 1994. If approved
by a majority of the electors voting on the issue, this Charter shall be come
effective January 1, 1995.
   B.   Except as provided in Section
12.02 of this Charter, the Council members, the Mayor and any other elected
City officials provided for under this Charter shall be those persons who are
elected at the primary and general elections to be held in 1995 and at
subsequent elections pursuant to the provisions of this Charter and any person
appointed to fill a vacancy in any elected office. All persons elected to
public office at the primary and general election to be held in 1995, shall be
elected to terms of office prescribed in this Charter commencing on June 1,
1995, or December 1, 1995, respectively.
   C.   In the interim period beginning January 1, 1995, and ending November
30, 1995, the City shall function under this Charter as described in Section
12.02 hereafter.
§ 12.02 Effect of Charter on existing personnel.
   A.   All elected offices and the terms of elected offices under the general
statutory plan of government for cities shall be abolished and terminated as of
December 31, 1994, however, said elected City office holders as of January 1,
1995, shall continue in service to the City until May 31, 1995, or November 30,
1995, upon the following conditions:
      (1)   All persons elected to the office of Council member at or before
the regular election on November 8, 1994, serve as Council members under this
Charter until May 31, 1995.
      (2)   The person holding the office of City Attorney under the general
statutory plan of government on December 31, 1994, shall serve as City Attorney
under this Charter until January 1, 1996.
      (3)   The person holding the office of City Treasurer under the general
statutory plan of government on December 31, 1994, shall serve as City
Treasurer under this Charter until November 30, 1995.
      (4)   The person holding the office of City Auditor under the general
statutory plan of government on December 31, 1994, shall serve as City Auditor
under this Charter until November 30, 1995.
      (5)   Should vacancies on Council occur during the period of December 31,
1994, through May 31, 1995, the vacancies created shall be filled as provided
in this Charter on an interim basis, terminating May 31, 1995.
      (6)   No person holding a City elective office on December 31, 1994,
shall be prohibited from being appointed as a City official by virtue of this
Charter.
      (7)   The elected positions of Mayor and Council President under the
general statutory plan of government on December 31, 1994, shall be abolished.
   B.   The person holding the office of Director of Public Safety and Service
under the general statutory plan of government on December 31, 1994, shall
serve as Acting City Manager under this Charter until Council appoints a City
Manager. Except as otherwise provided by this Charter, all other persons
holding office at the time this Charter takes effect shall continue in office
and in the performance of their duties until other provisions have been made in
accordance with this Charter for the performance of their duties by others or
the discontinuance of the duties of or the discontinuance of the office. When
such provisions shall have been made, the term of any officer shall expire and
the office shall be abolished. The powers conferred and the duties imposed upon
any office, body, commission, board, department or division of the City under
the laws of Ohio or under any municipal ordinance, resolution or contract in
force at the time of this Charter takes effect, if the office, body,
commission, board, department or division is abolished by this Charter, shall
be thereafter exercised and discharged by those upon whom are imposed
corresponding functions, powers and duties by this Charter or by any ordinance
or resolution of Council thereafter enacted.
   C.   Every employee of the City on January 1, 1995, shall continue in such
employment subject in all respects to the provisions of this Charter and
ordinances, resolutions, rules or regulations enacted or promulgated under this
Charter.
§ 12.03 Votes of Council during transition period.
   During the transition period beginning January 1, 1995, and ending May 31,
1995, wherever this Charter requires a vote of five (5) members of Council or a
majority of Council, such vote shall be defined as the simple majority of the
remaining number of Council members then serving; a majority of two-thirds (2/
3) shall be defined as two-thirds (2/3) of the remaining number of Council
members then serving; and a three-fourths (3/4) majority of Council shall be
defined as three-fourths (3/4) of the remaining number of Council members then
serving.
CERTIFICATION
   We, the qualified members of the Charter Commission of the City of
Nelsonville, Ohio, elected May 3, 1994, have framed the foregoing Charter and
have fixed November 8, 1994, as the time of the election at which the Charter
shall be submitted to the electors of the City of Nelsonville, Ohio.
Gary Edwards, Chairperson
Mary T. Sparks, Vice Chairperson
Janet Pritchard, Secretary
Bill McKnight, Treasurer
Ruth Brooker
Lowell Cole
Keith Conner
Violet Hollenbaugh
Wilma Lanning
Melvin MacCombs
Mary Jane McKinley
Melissa Meeks
Dan Pfeiffer
Charles Schnipke
Theodore Sharpe
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.05   Construction of section references
   
10.06   Conflicting provisions
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Ordinances repealed
   
10.11   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.12   Ordinances saved
   
10.13   Application to future ordinances
   
10.14   Interpretation
   
10.15   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.16   Statutory references
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.18   Determination of legislative intent
General Penalty; Time Limit on Prosecution; Fines
   
10.30   General penalty for misdemeanors
   
10.31   Limitation of criminal prosecutions
   
10.32   Credit toward fines; imprisonment
   
10.33   Organizational criminal liability
   
10.34   Personal accountability for organizational conduct
   
10.35   Citation and financial settlement in lieu of prosecution for certain
offenses
 
   
10.99   General penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the municipality,
as revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“Nelsonville Municipal Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”,
“codified ordinances” or “code” may be substituted. Title, chapter and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
(R.C. § 1.01)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to such
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code”. Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01”. Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AND/OR. The word “and” may be read as “or”, and the word “or” may be read as
“and”, if the sense requires it.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   CERTIFIED MAIL. Includes registered mail.
   CHILD. Includes child by adoption.
   CITY. The City of Nelsonville, Ohio.
   COUNCIL. The legislative authority of the municipality.
   COUNTY. Athens County, Ohio.
   FIRE CHIEF. Shall include the Chief of the Fire Department if a Fire
Department has been established in the municipality, and shall include the Fire
Prevention Officer if no Fire Department has been established in the
municipality.
   IMPRISONED. Shall have the same meaning as in R.C. § 1.05.
   INTERNET. The international computer network of both federal and non-federal
interoperable packet switched data networks, including the graphical subnetwork
known as the World Wide Web.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of incorporeal nature.
   LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY. The Legislative Authority of the municipality.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive. (See SHALL.)
   MUNICIPALITY, CITY, TOWN, VILLAGE or MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. When used in
this code, shall denote the municipality irrespective of its population or
legal classification.
   O.A.C. Refers to the Ohio Administrative Code.
   OATH. Includes affirmation.
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner or
tenant in common of the whole or part of that property.
   PERSON. Includes an individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership and association.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real property.
   PLAN OF SEWERAGE, SYSTEM OF SEWERAGE, SEWER and SEWERS. Includes sewers,
sewage disposal works and treatment plants and sewage pumping stations,
together with facilities and appurtenances necessary and proper therefor.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county, state
or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   R.C. Refers to the Ohio Revised Code.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory. (See PERMISSIVE.)
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The State of Ohio.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts and all other public thoroughfares within the municipality.
   SWEAR. Includes affirm.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WRITING. Includes printing.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. The terms include any representation of words,
letters, symbols or figures; this provision does not affect any law relating to
signatures.
   YEAR. Twelve consecutive months.
(R.C. §§ 1.02, 1.05, 1.44, 1.59, 701.01)
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Common and technical usage.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be read in context and construed according
to the rules of grammar and common usage.
      (2)   Words and phrases that have acquired a technical or particular
meaning, whether by legislative definition or otherwise, shall be construed
accordingly.
(R.C. § 1.42)
   (B)   Singular and plural; gender; tenses. As used in this code, unless the
context otherwise requires:
      (1)   The singular includes the plural, and the plural includes the
singular;
      (2)   Words of one gender include the other genders; and
      (3)   Words in the present tense include the future tense.
(R.C. § 1.43)
   (C)   Calendar; computation of time.
      (1)   The time within which an act is required by law to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day; except that when
the last day falls on Sunday or a legal holiday, then the act may be done on
the next succeeding day that is not a Sunday or a legal holiday.
      (2)   When a public office, in which an act required by law is to be
performed, is closed to the public for the entire day that constitutes the last
day for doing the act or before its usual closing time on that day, the act may
be performed on the next succeeding day that is not a Sunday or a legal
holiday.
      (3)   As used in divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) of this section, LEGAL
HOLIDAY means the following days:
         (a)   The first day of January, known as New Year’s Day;
         (b)   The third Monday in January, known as Martin Luther King, Jr.
Day;
         (c)   The third Monday in February, known as Washington-Lincoln Day;
         (d)   The day designated in the “Act of June 28, 1968”, 82 Stat. 250,
5 U.S.C. § 6103, as amended, for the commemoration of Memorial Day;
         (e)   The nineteenth day of June, known as Juneteenth day;
         (f)   The fourth day of July, known as Independence Day;
         (g)   The first Monday in September, known as Labor Day;
         (h)   The second Monday in October, known as Columbus Day;
         (i)   The eleventh day of November, known as Veteran’s Day;
         (j)   The fourth Thursday in November, known as Thanksgiving Day;
         (k)   The twenty-fifth day of December, known as Christmas Day; and
         (l)   Any day appointed and recommended by the Governor of this state
or the President of the United States as a holiday.
      (4)   If any day designated in this section as a legal holiday falls on a
Sunday, the next succeeding day is a legal holiday.
(R.C. § 1.14)
      (5)   (a)   When an act is to take effect or become operative from and
after a day named, no part of that day shall be included.
         (b)   If priority of legal rights depends upon the order of events on
the same day, the priority shall be determined by the times in the day at which
they respectively occurred.
(R.C. § 1.15)
      (6)   If a number of months is to be computed by counting the months from
a particular day, the period ends on the same numerical day in the concluding
month as the day of the month from which the computation is begun, unless there
are not that many days in the concluding month, in which case the period ends
on the last day of that month.
(R.C. § 1.45)
      (7)   In all cases where the law shall require any act to be done in a
reasonable time or reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or notice
shall mean such time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the
duty or compliance with the notice.
   (D)   Numbers. If there is a conflict between figures and words in
expressing a number, the words govern.
(R.C. § 1.46)
   (E)   Authority. When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as
well be done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be
construed to include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (F)   Joint authority. All words purporting to give joint authority to three
or more municipal officers or other persons shall be construed as giving that
authority to a majority of the officers or other persons, unless it shall be
otherwise expressly declared in the law giving the authority, or it is
inconsistent with state law or municipal charter provisions.
   (G)   Exceptions. The rules of construction shall not apply to any law which
contains any express provision excluding the construction, or when the subject
matter or context of the law is repugnant thereto.
§ 10.04 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing statute does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
(R.C. § 1.57)
   (B)   The re-enactment, amendment or repeal of an ordinance does not, except
as provided in division (C) below:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment; and the
investigation, proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture or punishment for any offense is reduced by
a re-enactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
(R.C. § 1.58)
   (D)   An ordinance which is re-enacted or amended is intended to be a
continuation of the prior ordinance and not a new enactment, so far as it is
the same as the prior ordinance.
(R.C. § 1.54)
§ 10.05 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, or of divisions or subdivisions of a
section, the reference shall be construed to mean a violation of any provision
of the section, sections, divisions or subdivisions included in the reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
(R.C. § 1.23)
   (C)   A reference to any portion of a provision of this code applies to all
re-enactments or amendments thereof.
(R.C. § 1.55)
   (D)   If a section refers to a series of numbers or letters, the first and
the last numbers or letters are included.
(R.C. § 1.56)
   (E)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter has been
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.06 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   If a general provision conflicts with a special or local provision,
they shall be construed, if possible, so that effect is given to both. If the
conflict between the provisions is irreconcilable, the special or local
provision prevails as an exception to the general provision, unless the general
provision is the later adoption and the manifest intent is that the general
provision prevail.
(R.C. § 1.51)
   (B)   (1)   If ordinances enacted at different meetings of the legislative
authority are irreconcilable, the ordinance latest in date of enactment
prevails.
      (2)   If amendments to the same ordinance are enacted at different
meetings of the legislative authority, one amendment without reference to
another, the amendments are to be harmonized, if possible, so that effect may
be given to each.
      (3)   If the amendments are substantively irreconcilable, the latest in
date of enactment prevails. The fact that a later amendment restates language
deleted by an earlier amendment, or fails to include language inserted by an
earlier amendment, does not of itself make the amendments irreconcilable.
Amendments are irreconcilable only when changes made by each cannot reasonably
be put into simultaneous operation.
(R.C. § 1.52)
   (C)   In the event of a conflict between any of the provisions of this code,
or between any of the provisions of this code and any standard code adopted by
the municipality pursuant to R.C. § 731.231, the provision that establishes the
higher or stricter standard shall control.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of this code or the application thereof to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions or applications of the section or related sections which can
be given effect without the invalid provision or application, and to this end
the provisions are severable.
(R.C. § 1.50)
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the municipality exercising the powers, duties
or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
words, the omission of any words necessary to express the intention of the
provisions affected, the use of words to which no meaning can be attached or
the use of a word when another word was clearly intended to express the
intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and the words supplied, omitted or
substituted shall conform with the manifest intention, and the provision shall
have the same effect as though the correct words were contained in the text as
originally published. No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question
exists regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.10 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   With the exception of any ordinances specifically saved by the municipality,
this code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
and all ordinances specifically saved by the municipality shall remain in full
force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
legislative body, or a certain municipal officer or employee, to make
additional ordinances or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the
intention of the ordinance, all ordinances and regulations of a similar nature
serving the purpose, effected prior to the codification and not inconsistent
thereto, shall remain in effect and are saved.
§ 10.13 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.14 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.15 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to the adoption of this code may be numbered in
accordance with the numbering system of this code and need not be inserted in
this code, but shall be treated as if printed for inclusion herein.
   (B)   The following language may be used by the municipality to amend, add
or repeal a chapter, section or division:
      (1)   To amend a section: “Section                 of the Municipal Code
of Ordinances is amended to read as follows: ...”.
      (2)   To add a section: “Section                 of the Municipal Code of
Ordinances, which is to be added to and amends the Municipal Code of
Ordinances, reads as follows: ...”; and
      (3)   To repeal a section: “Section                 of the Municipal Code
of Ordinances, which reads as follows, is repealed: ...”.
§ 10.16 STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, located in parentheses
immediately following a division or section of this code, this indicates that
the text of the division or section is substantially equivalent to the
statutory provision.
Example: (R.C. § 4511.02)
   (B)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following
the text of a section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information.
Example:
§ 30.08 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      Unless otherwise exempted by state law, all public records shall be
promptly prepared and made available for inspection to any person.
Statutory reference:
    Public records, see R.C. § 149.43
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.18 DETERMINATION OF LEGISLATIVE INTENT.
   (A)   In enacting an ordinance, it is presumed that:
      (1)   Compliance with the constitutions of the state and of the United
States is intended;
      (2)   The entire ordinance is intended to be effective;
      (3)   A just and reasonable result is intended; and
      (4)   A result feasible of execution is intended.
(R.C. § 1.47)
   (B)   An ordinance is presumed to be prospective in its operation unless
expressly made retrospective.
(R.C. § 1.48)
   (C)   If an ordinance is ambiguous, the court, in determining the intention
of the legislative authority, may consider among other matters:
      (1)   The object sought to be attained;
      (2)   The circumstances under which the ordinance was enacted;
      (3)   The legislative history;
      (4)   The common law or former legislative provisions, including laws
upon the same or similar subjects;
      (5)   The consequences of a particular construction; and
      (6)   The administrative construction of the ordinance.
(R.C. § 1.49)
GENERAL PENALTY; TIME LIMIT ON PROSECUTION; FINES
§ 10.30 GENERAL PENALTY FOR MISDEMEANORS.
   Whoever violates any provision of the city code for which no other penalty
is prescribed is guilty of a minor misdemeanor, as defined in R.C. §§ 2929.21
and 2929.31.
(Prior Code, § 1.02.01)
§ 10.31 LIMITATION OF CRIMINAL PROSECUTIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, a prosecution shall be
barred unless it is commenced within the following periods after an offense is
committed:
      (1)   For a felony other than aggravated murder or murder, six years;
      (2)   For a misdemeanor other than a minor misdemeanor, two years; and
      (3)   For a minor misdemeanor, six months.
   (B)   If the period of limitation provided in division (A) above has
expired, prosecution shall be commenced for an offense of which an element is
fraud or breach of fiduciary duty, within one year after discovery of the
offense either by an aggrieved person, or by his or her legal representative
who is not himself or herself a party to the offense.
   (C)   If the period of limitation provided in division (A) above has
expired, prosecution shall be commenced for an offense involving misconduct in
office by a public servant, as defined in R.C. § 2921.01, at any time while the
accused remains a public servant, or within two years thereafter.
   (D)   An offense is committed when every element of the offense occurs. In
the case of an offense of which an element is a continuing course of conduct,
the period of limitation does not begin to run until such course of conduct or
the accused’s accountability for it terminates, whichever occurs first.
   (E)   A prosecution is commenced on the date an indictment is returned,
information filed or on the date a lawful arrest without a warrant is made, or
on the date a warrant, summons, citation or other process is issued, whichever
occurs first. A prosecution is not commenced by the return of an indictment or
the filing of information unless reasonable diligence is exercised to issue and
execute process on the same. A prosecution is not commenced upon issuance of a
warrant, summons, citation or other process, unless reasonable diligence is
exercised to execute the same.
   (F)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time when the corpus
delicti remains undiscovered.
   (G)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time when the
accused purposely avoids prosecution. Proof that the accused absented himself
or herself from this or concealed his or her identity or whereabouts is prima-
facie evidence of his or her purpose to avoid prosecution.
   (H)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time a prosecution
against the accused based on the same conduct is pending in this state, even
though the indictment, information or process which commenced the prosecution
is quashed or the proceedings thereon are set aside or reversed on appeal.
(R.C. § 2901.13) (Prior Code, § 1.02.02)
§ 10.32 CREDIT TOWARD FINES; IMPRISONMENT.
   Where a fine is imposed in whole or in part, in punishment for the violation
of any misdemeanor or the violation of an ordinance within the corporation of
the city and the judge or magistrate has authority to order that the defendant
stand committed to the jail of this city or the county until said fine is paid
or secured to be paid, the persons so imprisoned shall receive credit upon such
fine at the rate of $72 per day. (Case note: Based on Strattman v Studt,
December 17, 1969, 20 OS2d 95, 49 OO2d 428, 253 NE2d 749.)
(Prior Code, § 1.02.03)
§ 10.33 ORGANIZATIONAL CRIMINAL LIABILITY.
   (A)   An organization may be convicted of an offense under any of the
following circumstances.
      (1)   The offense is a minor misdemeanor committed by an officer, agent
or employee of the organization acting in its behalf and within the scope of
his or her office or employment, except that if the section defining the
offense designates the officers, agents or employees for whose conduct the
organization is accountable or the circumstances under which it is accountable,
such provisions shall apply.
      (2)   A purpose to impose organizational liability plainly appears in the
section defining the offense, and the offense is committed by an officer, agent
or employee of the organization acting in its behalf and within the scope of
his or her office or employment, except that if the section defining the
offense designates the officers, agents or employees for whose conduct the
organization is accountable or the circumstances under which it is accountable,
such provisions shall apply.
      (3)   The offense consists of an omission to discharge a specific duty
imposed by law on the organization.
      (4)   If, acting with the kind of culpability otherwise required for the
commission of the offense, its commission was authorized, requested, commanded,
tolerated or performed by the board of directors, trustees, partners or by a
high managerial officer, agent or employee acting in behalf of his or her
office or employment.
   (B)   When strict liability is imposed for the commission of an offense, a
purpose to impose organizational liability shall be presumed, unless the
contrary plainly appears.
   (C)   In a prosecution of an organization for an offense other than one for
which strict liability is imposed, it is a defense that the high managerial
officer, agent or employee having supervisory responsibility over the subject
matter of the offense exercised due diligence to prevent its commission. This
defense is not available if it plainly appears inconsistent with the purpose of
the section defining the offense.
   (D)   As used in this section, ORGANIZATION means a corporation for profit
or not for profit, partnership, limited partnership, joint venture,
unincorporated association, trust or other commercial or legal entity.
ORGANIZATION does not include an entity organized as or by a governmental
agency for the execution of a governmental program.
(R.C. § 2901.23) (Prior Code, § 1.02.04)
§ 10.34 PERSONAL ACCOUNTABILITY FOR ORGANIZATIONAL CONDUCT.
   (A)   An officer, agent or employee of an organization, as defined in R.C. §
2901.23, may be prosecuted for an offense committed by such organization if he
or she acts with the kind of culpability required for the commission of the
offense, and any of the following apply.
      (1)   In the name of the organization or in its behalf, he or she engages
in conduct constituting the offense, or causes another to engage in such
conduct, or tolerates such conduct when it is of a type for which he or she has
direct responsibility.
      (2)   He or she has primary responsibility to discharge a duty imposed on
the organization by law, and such duty is not discharged.
   (B)   When a person is convicted of an offense by reason of this section, he
or she is subject to the same penalty as if he or she had acted in his or her
own behalf.
(R.C. § 2901.24) (Prior Code, § 1.02.05)
§ 10.35 CITATION AND FINANCIAL SETTLEMENT IN LIEU OF PROSECUTION FOR CERTAIN
OFFENSES.
   (A)   Civil offense. A CIVIL OFFENSE means an offense against the city set
forth in this code of ordinances made subject to a civil fine by this chapter.
Charging a person with a civil offense is an alternative to criminal
prosecution. A person may not be charged with a civil offense if that person
has also been charged with a misdemeanor for the same offense. A person charged
with a civil offense may not be arrested for the commission of the offense.
   (B)   Classification of civil offenses.
      (1)   A person who violates a standard of conduct set forth in a section
or chapter of this code of ordinances listed below is liable for the civil fine
specified in §
10.99 for a civil offense:
         (a)   Section
53.03(A), “Preparation and storage of rubbish and refuse”;
         (b)   Section
53.12, “Uncollected rubbish and refuse”;
         (c)   Section
91.01(A), “Trees, grass, weeds and litter”;
         (d)   Section
91.03(A), “Rubbish and objectionable materials”;
         (e)   Section
91.06(A), “Used building materials, unlicensed motor vehicles, scrap metal,
refuse or rubbish”;
         (f)   Section
91.12, “Littering public ways”;
         (g)   Section
91.15(A), “Exterior maintenance of property and premise conditions”; and
         (h)   Section
155.03, “Certificate of registration or zoning certificate required”.
      (2)    If a person has previously been found to have violated the same
provision of this code of ordinances within one year, that person may be
charged as a second offender and on being found to have committed a second or
subsequent offense is liable for the civil fine specified in §
10.99 for the second and subsequent violation.
   (C)   Notice of civil offense and civil fine; procedures.
      (1)   The City Manager, or his or her designee charged with enforcement
of this code of ordinances, may issue a notice of civil offense and civil fine
to a person found to have committed a civil offense.
      (2)   A notice of civil offense and civil fine must advise the person
served:
         (a)   Unless a written answer is filed or the civil fine paid within
ten days from the date of the notice, the fine will double; and
         (b)   That a hearing will be held if requested.
      (3)   A notice of civil offense and civil fine:
         (a)   Must state the date that the notice is issued;
         (b)   Must identify the person being charged if known to the issuing
officer or employee;
         (c)   Indicate the offense charged, the civil fine for the offense,
and the date, time and location of the offense charged;
         (d)   Be signed and attested to by the issuing officer or employee;
and
         (f)   If the person charged is present, the issuing officer or
employee may personally serve the person charged with a copy of the notice.
      (4)   The issuing officer or employee must serve the notice of civil
offense and civil fine in one of the following manners:
         (a)   The notice may be served personally on the person responsible
for the offense;
         (b)   If the notice involves an offense which occurred on or
immediately adjacent to the real property owned, occupied or controlled by the
person being charged, the notice may be constructively served by posting a copy
of the notice in a conspicuous location on the real property and by mailing a
copy of the notice to the person by first class U.S. mail; or
         (c)   The original of a notice of civil offense and civil fine issued
pursuant to this section or a true copy of it is a record kept in the ordinary
course of business of the city and is prima facie evidence of the facts it
contains.
   (D)   Answer to notice of civil offense.
      (1)   A person served with a notice charging a civil offense may file a
written answer to the charge. The answer may be delivered in person or mailed
to the city. An answer must be filed within ten days from the date of the
notice. The answer may:
         (a)   Admit that the person committed the offense by payment of the
civil fine specified in the notice;
         (b)   Admit that the person committed the offense and, for those
offenses that provide for a reduction in civil fine on proof of correction,
offer proof that the person has corrected the offense;
         (c)   Deny that the person committed the offense and request a
hearing. If the person desires the presence at the hearing of the enforcement
officer, inspector or other authorized individual who issued the notice, the
person must request same in his or her answer; or
         (d)   If the person served has taken an administrative appeal
authorized by this code of ordinances from an order on which the offense was
based, the person may request that the time for answering the notice of civil
offense be continued until the appeal has been finally resolved.
      (2)   A person who admits the commission of the offense for which a
notice was issued must pay the civil fine arising out of the offense to the
City Auditor.
      (3)   A person who admits the commission of the offense with an offer of
proof of correction, may offer proof that the person has corrected the offense.
   (E)   Hearings.
      (1)   A person who denies the commission of a civil offense may request a
hearing before a Hearing Examiner. The Hearing Examiner shall be the City
Manager or his or her designee. The request shall be filed with the Office of
Administrative Hearings, which shall set a date for the hearing and notify the
person, in writing, of the date, time and location of the hearing. The hearing
may be informal, but all testimony shall be under oath.
      (2)   All hearings shall be scheduled within ten days and will be held
within 30 days from the date the request for a hearing is filed. Any hearing
date may be modified if such modification is agreed to by the person charged,
by the city officer or employee who issued the charge and by the Hearing
Examiner, or if such modification is necessary in the interest of justice.
      (3)   The Hearing Examiner shall enter into the record of the proceedings
the notice of the civil offense and civil fine, the filing of or failure to
file an answer, the substance of the answer, a finding of liability, the civil
fine due, payments, delinquency and collection charges and other relevant
information.
      (4)   The Hearing Examiner shall issue a decision and make findings of
fact from the record and conclusions of law in support of the decision within
ten days from close of the hearing. The findings and conclusions shall
demonstrate that the decision is consistent with applicable laws, ordinances,
regulations and the interest of justice. Any unpaid civil fine is due and must
be paid within ten days after the date of the Hearing Examiner’s decision.
      (5)   If the person has taken an administrative appeal authorized by this
code of ordinances from an order on which the offense was based, the Hearing
Examiner must extend the time for answering the notice of civil offense until
the appeal has been finally resolved.
   (F)   (1)   A person charged with a violation of the this code of ordinances
and served with a notice of civil offense and civil fine specified as subject
to reduction for correction of the violation may offer proof of the correction
to the Hearing Examiner. The offer or proof of correction may be submitted in
person or, to avoid the necessity of personal appearance, may be submitted as
affidavits and other document evidence, by mail. The Hearing Examiner who
receives an answer with an offer of proof of correction shall verify whether
the violation has been corrected by inquiry to the city department which issued
the notice.
      (2)   For those offenses that provide for a reduction in civil fine on
proof of correction, on being satisfied that the offense has been corrected,
the Hearing Examiner shall reduce the otherwise applicable civil fine by up to
90%. If the civil fine is eliminated or reduced and the person previously paid
the civil fine, the amount paid in excess of the revised civil fine shall be
returned to the person. If the civil fine is reduced and the person has not
previously paid the civil fine, the person must pay only the amount of the
civil fine as reduced. An unpaid civil fine is due and must be paid within ten
days after the determination of the examiner.
   (G)   Default. A person who is personally or constructively served with
notice of a civil offense and civil fine and fails to answer within the time
provided by division (D) above, or fails to attend a requested hearing, the
person is in default, and the civil fine deemed delinquent. The amount due is
as specified by §
10.99.
   (H)   Request to set aside default and delinquency charges. A person subject
to a civil fine entered after default may request to have the default set
aside. A Hearing Examiner may set aside a default on a showing that the person
had no actual knowledge of the notice of civil offense and civil fine or that
the default should be excused in the interest of justice.
   (I)   Administrative review. A person found to have committed a civil
offense and to owe a civil fine may request the City Mayor’s Court to review
the record of the proceedings before the Hearing Examiner. The director of a
city department that issued a notice of civil offense and civil fine dismissed
by the Hearing Examiner may also request the Nelsonville Mayor’s Court to
review the record of the proceedings before the Hearing Examiner. The request
for review must be in writing, specify with particularity the claimed errors in
the decision by the Hearing Examiner, filed with the Civil Division of the
Mayor’s Court, pay any applicable filing fee as set forth by the Mayor’s Court
and sent to the office of administrative hearings by certified mail within ten
days of the date of the mailing of the decision by the Hearing Examiner. The
city officer or employee who issued the notice of violation which gave rise to
the request for review or a supervisor to the issuing officer may file a
written response to the request for review. The response must be filed within
15 days of the receipt of the request for review by the officer of
administrative hearings. The Mayor’s Court may set aside the decision of the
hearing on finding from review of the proceedings before the Hearing Examiner
that the findings of fact and conclusions of law are not supported by the
record. The Mayor’s Court may reduce a civil fine on a showing that the civil
fine would cause an undue hardship and that the underlying infraction has been
cured or is unlikely to reoccur. The Mayor’s Court may investigate a claim that
an infraction has been cured, make findings with respect to the claim of cure,
and include those findings within the record. The decision of the Mayor’s Court
may be appealed to the County Municipal Court in the same manner in form as any
civil action filed with the Municipal Court.
   (J)   Civil proceedings. Whenever an officer charged with the enforcement of
this code of ordinances is satisfied that a provision that officer is charged
to enforce, or a law in force in the city applicable to the same subject
matter, has been violated or is about to be violated, or that an order or
direction made in pursuance of the enforcement of this chapter has not been
complied with, or is being disregarded, and whenever that officer is satisfied
that civil proceedings are necessary for the enforcement of this code of
ordinances or laws, to restrain violations thereof, that officer may apply to
the City Attorney, who is authorized to institute civil proceedings. Civil
proceedings may be brought in the name of the city, and may include, among
other things, claims for injunction, mandatory relief, restraining orders,
damages, the appointment of a receiver and such other relief as may be allowed
in law or equity. Institution of civil proceedings does not exclude criminal
proceedings as authorized by the City Code or charging a person with a civil
offense as authorized by this chapter.
   (K)   Administrative regulations. The Municipal Administrator may adopt
administrative regulations for the conduct of hearings and for the enforcement
of this code of ordinances through the issuance of notices of civil offenses.
   (L)   Freedom from improper influence.
      (1)   No member of the City Council, member of the city administration,
party to any proceedings before a Hearing Examiner, or any other person shall
interfere with, attempt to interfere with, or improperly influence or attempt
to improperly influence a Hearing Examiner in the performance of the duties of
office.
      (2)   An examiner may not conduct or participate in any hearing or
decision in which the examiner or any of the following persons has a direct or
substantial financial interest: a spouse; brother; sister; child; parent; or
in-law of the examiner; or business firm or organization in which the examiner
has a substantial interest. The examiner shall promptly report to the City
Manager any attempt at interference or improper influence or any actual or
potential conflict prior to such hearing.
      (3)   Wherever it may be shown to the satisfaction of the City Manager
that an examiner was subjected to improper influence, interference or interest,
such improper influence, interference or interest shall be grounds for vacating
any decision made by the examiner in such proceedings.
   (M)   Ex parte communications prohibited. A person may not communicate with
a Hearing Examiner to influence a decision in a matter pending before an
examiner other than at a public hearing or in a writing that is made part of
the record of the proceeding. This provision shall not prohibit communication
between an examiner and any member of the administration assigned to assist or
give legal counsel to the examiner in the pending proceeding.
   (N)   Savings. This chapter does not affect any act done or committed in
violation of any former ordinance relating to the same subject, or any suit or
proceeding now pending in court for the violation of the provisions of any
former ordinance, or any cause or causes of action accrued or existing under
such ordinance, but all proceedings or prosecutions now pending shall be
conducted to final determination irrespective of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1.02.06) (Ord. 25-16, passed 5-23-2016; Ord. 25-19, passed 5-20-
2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever, in this code of ordinances or in any ordinance of the city,
any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a
misdemeanor, or whenever the doing of any act is required or the failure to do
any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is otherwise
provided, whoever violates any such provision shall be punished by a fine not
exceeding $500, a term of imprisonment not exceeding six months, or both. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a
violation continues or occurs.
   (B)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by this code of ordinances shall not subject the officer
or employee to the penalty imposed for a violation unless a penalty is
specifically provided for the failure.
   (C)   (1)   Pursuant to §
10.35, fines for civil penalties shall be as follows:
 
                                If Delinquent    If Second or       If Sent for
Initial Civil Fine If Corrected (After Ten Days) Subsequent Offense Collection
                                                 in One Year
$100               $10          $200             $200               $250
 
      (2)   Neither the city, the state, the U.S. government nor any city,
federal or state agency nor political subdivision is liable for a civil fine
imposed pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 25-16, passed 5-23-2016; Ord. 25-19, passed 5-20-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Ordinance violations and penalties, see R.C. § 715.67
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   GOVERNING BODY
      
32.   OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
33.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
34.   PUBLIC SAFETY; LAW ENFORCEMENT
      
35.   POLICIES
      
36.   FINANCES AND TAXATION
      
37.   MUNICIPAL INCOME TAX
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Qualifications; oaths
   
30.02   Approval of bonds
   
30.03   Sufficiency of form of bond
   
30.04   Additional bond; where bonds recorded and kept
   
30.05   Publication of ordinances
   
30.06   Public records available
   
30.07   Meetings of public bodies to be open; exceptions; notice
§ 30.01 QUALIFICATIONS; OATHS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) below or in another
section of the Ohio Revised Code, each officer of the municipality or of any
department or board of the municipality, whether elected or appointed as a
substitute for a regular officer, shall be an elector of the municipality and,
before entering upon official duties, shall take an oath to support the
Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the state and an oath
that the officer will faithfully, honestly and impartially discharge the duties
of the office to which elected or appointed. These provisions as to official
oaths shall extend to deputies, but they need not be electors.
   (B)   Neither this section nor any section of the Ohio Revised Code
requires, or shall be construed to require, that a Fire Chief be an elector of
the municipality.
(R.C. § 733.68) (Prior Code, § 3.01.01)
§ 30.02 APPROVAL OF BONDS.
   The official bonds of all municipal officers shall be prepared by the
Solicitor or Director of Law. Except as otherwise provided in state law, the
bonds shall be in a sum as the legislative authority prescribes by general or
special ordinance, and be subject to the approval of the Mayor, except that the
Mayor’s bond shall be approved by the legislative authority, or, if it is not
legally organized, by the Clerk of the Court of Common Pleas of the county in
which the municipality or the larger part thereof is situated.
(R.C. § 733.70) (Prior Code, § 3.01.02)
§ 30.03 SUFFICIENCY OF FORM OF BOND.
   In each bond mentioned in §
30.02, the condition that the person elected or appointed shall faithfully
perform the duties of the office shall be sufficient. The fact that the
instrument is without a seal, that blanks for the date or amount have been
filled subsequent to its execution but before its acceptance, without the
consent of the sureties, that all the obligees named in the instrument have not
signed it, that new duties have been imposed on the officers or that any merely
formal objection exists shall not be available in any suit on the instrument.
(R.C. § 733.71) (Prior Code, § 3.01.03)
§ 30.04 ADDITIONAL BOND; WHERE BONDS RECORDED AND KEPT.
   Except as otherwise provided in the municipal charter or in R.C. § 3.061,
each officer required by law or ordinance to give bond shall do so before
entering upon the duties of the office. Except as otherwise provided in the
municipal charter or in R.C. § 3.061, the legislative authority may, at any
time, require each officer to give a new or additional bond. Each bond, except
that of the Auditor or Clerk, upon its approval, shall be delivered to the
Auditor or Clerk, who shall immediately record it in a record provided for that
purpose and file and carefully preserve it in the Auditor’s or Clerk’s office.
The bond of the Auditor or Clerk shall be delivered to the Treasurer, who shall
in like manner record and preserve it.
(R.C. § 733.69) (Prior Code, § 3.01.04)
§ 30.05 PUBLICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   Pursuant to Charter §
4.12, the City Council Clerk shall post the complete text of ordinances and
resolutions required by law to be published for 15 days at the city’s public
library at 95 W. Washington Street, Fruth Pharmacy at 10 W. Washington Street,
Nelsonville TV Cable at 1 W. Columbus Street, Kroger Food and Pharmacy at 965
Poplar Street and the city building at 211 Lake Hope Drive.
(Ord. 35-15, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 30.06 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   (A)   Upon request by any person and subject to division (H) below, all
public records responsive to the request shall be promptly prepared and made
available for inspection to the requester at all reasonable times during
regular business hours. Subject to division (H) below, upon request by any
person, a public office or person responsible for public records shall make
copies of the requested public record available to the requestor at cost and
within a reasonable period of time. If a public record contains information
that is exempt from the duty to permit public inspection or to copy the public
record, the public office or the person responsible for the public record shall
make available all of the information within the public record that is not
exempt. When making that public record available for public inspection or
copying that public record, the public office or the person responsible for the
public record shall notify the requester of any redaction or make the redaction
plainly visible. A redaction shall be deemed a denial of a request to inspect
or copy the redacted information, except if federal or state law authorizes or
requires a public office to make the redaction.
   (B)   To facilitate broader access to public records, a public office or the
person responsible for public records shall organize and maintain public
records in a manner that they can be made available for inspection or copying
in accordance with this section. A public office also shall have available a
copy of its current records retention schedule at a location readily available
to the public. If a requester makes an ambiguous or overly broad request or has
difficulty in making a request for copies or inspection of public records under
this section, such that the public office or the person responsible for the
requested public record cannot reasonably identify what public records are
being requested, the public office or the person responsible for the requested
public record may deny the request, but shall provide the requester with an
opportunity to revise the request by informing the requester of the manner in
which records are maintained by the public office and accessed in the ordinary
course of the public office’s or person’s duties.
   (C)   If a request is ultimately denied, in part or in whole, the public
office or the person responsible for the requested public record shall provide
the requester with an explanation, including legal authority, setting forth why
the request was denied. If the initial request was provided in writing, the
explanation also shall be provided to the requester in writing. The explanation
shall not preclude the public office or the person responsible for the
requested public record from relying upon additional reasons or legal authority
in defending an action commenced under R.C. § 149.43(C).
   (D)   Unless specifically required or authorized by state or federal law or
in accordance this section, no public office or person responsible for public
records may limit or condition the availability of public records by requiring
disclosure of the requester’s identity or the intended use of the requested
public record. Any requirement that the requester disclose the requester's
identity or the intended use of the requested public record constitutes a
denial of the request.
   (E)   A public office or person responsible for public records may ask a
requester to make the request in writing, may ask for the requester’s identity
and may inquire about the intended use of the information requested, but may do
so only after disclosing to the requester that a written request is not
mandatory and that the requester may decline to reveal the requester’s identity
or the intended use, and when a written request or disclosure of the identity
or intended use would benefit the requester by enhancing the ability of the
public office or person responsible for public records to identify, locate or
deliver the public records sought by the requester.
   (F)   If any person requests a copy of a public record in accordance with
this section, the public office or person responsible for the public record may
require the requester to pay, in advance, the cost involved in providing the
copy of the public record in accordance with the choice made by the requester
under this division. The public office or the person responsible for the public
record shall permit the requester to choose to have the public record
duplicated upon paper, upon the same medium upon which the public office or
person responsible for the public record keeps it, or upon any other medium
upon which the public office or person responsible for the public record
determines that it reasonably can be duplicated as an integral part of the
normal operations of the public office or person responsible for the public
record. When the requester makes a choice under this division, the public
office or person responsible for the public record shall provide a copy of it
in accordance with the choice made by the requester. Nothing in this section
requires a public office or person responsible for the public record to allow
the requester of a copy of the public record to make the copies of the public
record.
   (G)   (1)   Upon a request made in accordance with this section and subject
to division (F) above, a public office or person responsible for public records
shall transmit a copy of a public record to any person by U.S. mail or by any
other means of delivery or transmission within a reasonable period of time
after receiving the request for the copy. The public office or person
responsible for the public record may require the person making the request to
pay in advance the cost of postage if the copy is transmitted by U.S. mail or
the cost of delivery if the copy is transmitted other than by U.S. mail, and to
pay in advance the costs incurred for other supplies used in the mailing,
delivery or transmission.
      (2)   Any public office may adopt a policy and procedures that it will
follow in transmitting, within a reasonable period of time after receiving a
request, copies of public records by U.S. mail or by any other means of
delivery or transmission pursuant to this division (G). A public office that
adopts a policy and procedures under this division (G) shall comply with them
in performing its duties under that division.
      (3)   In any policy and procedures adopted under this division (G):
         (a)   A public office may limit the number of records requested by a
person that the office will physically deliver by U.S. mail or by another
delivery service to ten per month, unless the person certifies to the office,
in writing, that the person does not intend to use or forward the requested
records, or the information contained in them, for commercial purposes;
         (b)   A public office that chooses to provide some or all of its
public records on a web site that is fully accessible to and searchable by
members of the public at all times, other than during acts of God outside the
public office’s control or maintenance, and that charges no fee to search,
access, download, or otherwise receive records provided on the web site, may
limit to ten per month the number of records requested by a person that the
office will deliver in a digital format, unless the requested records are not
provided on the web site and unless the person certifies to the office, in
writing, that the person does not intend to use or forward the requested
records, or the information contained in them, for commercial purposes; and
         (c)   For purposes of this division (G), COMMERCIAL shall be narrowly
construed and does not include reporting or gathering news, reporting or
gathering information to assist citizen oversight or understanding the
operation or activities of government, or nonprofit educational research.
   (H)   A public office or person responsible for public records is not
required to permit a person who is incarcerated pursuant to a criminal
conviction or a juvenile adjudication to inspect or to obtain a copy of any
public record concerning a criminal investigation or prosecution or concerning
what would be a criminal investigation or prosecution if the subject of the
investigation or prosecution were an adult, unless the request to inspect or to
obtain a copy of the record is for the purpose of acquiring information that is
subject to release as a public record under this section and the judge who
imposed the sentence or made the adjudication with respect to the person, or
the judge's successor in office, finds that the information sought in the
public record is necessary to support what appears to be a justiciable claim of
the person.
   (I)   (1)   Upon written request made and signed by a journalist, a public
office, or person responsible for public records, having custody of the records
of the agency employing a specified designated public service worker, as
defined in R.C. § 149.43, shall disclose to the journalist the address of the
actual personal residence of the designated public service worker and, if the
designated public service worker’s spouse, former spouse or child is employed
by a public office, the name and address of the employer of the designated
public service worker’s spouse, former spouse or child. The request shall
include the journalist’s name and title and the name and address of the
journalist’s employer and shall state that disclosure of the information sought
would be in the public interest.
      (2)   Division (I)(l) above also applies to journalist requests for:
         (a)   Customer information maintained by a municipally owned or
operated public utility, other than social security numbers and any private
financial information such as credit reports, payment methods, credit card
numbers and bank account information; and
         (b)   Information about minors involved in a school vehicle accident
as provided in division R.C. § 149.43(A)(l)(gg), other than personal
information as defined in R.C. § 149.45.
      (3)   As used in this division (I) above, JOURNALIST means a person
engaged in, connected with or employed by any news medium, including a
newspaper, magazine, press association, news agency or wire service, a radio or
television station or a similar medium, for the purpose of gathering,
processing, transmitting, compiling, editing or disseminating information for
the general public.
   (J)   Upon a request made by a victim, victim’s attorney or victim’s
representative, as that term is used in R.C. § 2930.02, a public office or
person responsible for public records shall transmit a copy of a depiction of
the victim as described in R.C. § 149.43(A)(l)(ii) to the victim, victim’s
attorney or victim’s representative.
   (K)   (1) To ensure that all employees of public offices are appropriately
educated about a public office’s obligations under this section, all elected
officials or their appropriate designees shall attend training approved by the
Attorney General as provided in R.C. § 109.43. A future official may satisfy
the requirements of this division by attending the training before taking
office,; provided that the future official may not send a designee in the
future official’s place.
      (2)   All public offices shall adopt a public records policy in
compliance with this section for responding to public records requests. In
adopting a public records policy under this division, a public office may
obtain guidance from the model public records policy developed and provided to
the public office by the Attorney General under R.C. § 109.43. Except as
otherwise provided in this section or R.C. § 149.43, the policy may not limit
the number of public records that the public office will make available to a
single person, may not limit the number of public records that it will make
available during a fixed period of time, and may not establish a fixed period
of time before it will respond to a request for inspection or copying of public
records, unless that period is less than eight hours.
      (3)   The public office shall distribute the public records policy
adopted by the public office under this division (K) to the employee of the
public office who is the records custodian or records manager or otherwise has
custody of the records of that office. The public office shall require that
employee to acknowledge receipt of the copy of the public records policy. The
public office shall create a poster that describes its public records policy
and shall post the poster in a conspicuous place in the public office and in
all locations where the public office has branch offices. The public office may
post its public records policy on the internet web site of the public office if
the public office maintains an internet web site. A public office that has
established a manual or handbook of its general policies and procedures for all
employees of the public office shall include the public records policy of the
public office in the manual or handbook.
(R.C. § 149.43(B), (E))
Statutory reference:
   Availability and scope of public records; mandamus action to compel
disclosure, see R.C. § 149.43
   Competitive bidding, public inspection and copying prohibited, see R.C. §
125.071
§ 30.07 MEETINGS OF PUBLIC BODIES TO BE OPEN; EXCEPTIONS; NOTICE.
   (A)   This section shall be liberally construed to require public officials
to take official action and to conduct all deliberations upon official business
only in open meetings, unless the subject matter is specifically excepted by
law.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MEETING. Any prearranged discussion of the public business of the public
body by a majority of its members.
      PUBLIC BODY. Any of the following:
         (a)   Any board, commission, committee, council or similar decision-
making body of a state agency, institution or authority, and any legislative
authority or board, commission, committee, council, agency, authority or
similar decision-making body of any county, township, municipal corporation,
school district or other political subdivision or local public institution;
         (b)   Any committee or subcommittee of a body described in division
(a) above of this definition; or
         (c)   A court of jurisdiction of a sanitary district organized wholly
for the purpose of providing a water supply for domestic municipal and public
use when meeting for the purpose of the appointment, removal or reappointment
of a member of the Board of Directors of such a district pursuant to R.C. §
6115.10, if applicable, or for any other matter related to such a district
other than litigation involving the district. As used in this division (c) of
this definition of PUBLIC BODY, COURT OF JURISDICTION has the same meaning as
“court” in R.C. § 6115.01.
      PUBLIC OFFICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 149.011.
      REGULATED INDIVIDUAL. Either of the following:
         (a)   A student in a state or local public educational institution; or
         (b)   A person who is, voluntarily or involuntarily, an inmate,
patient or resident of a state or local institution because of criminal
behavior, mental illness, an intellectual disability, disease, disability, age
or other condition requiring custodial care.
   (C)   (1) All meetings of any public body are declared to be public meetings
open to the public at all times. A member of a public body shall be present in
person at a meeting open to the public to be considered present or to vote at
the meeting and for purposes of determining whether a quorum is present at the
meeting.
      (2)   The minutes of a regular or special meeting of any public body
shall be promptly prepared, filed and maintained and shall be open to public
inspection. The minutes need only reflect the general subject matter of
discussions in executive sessions authorized under division (F) below.
   (D)   This section does not apply to any of the following: a grand jury; an
audit conference conducted by the auditor of state or independent certified
public accountants with officials of the public office that is the subject of
the audit; or to other state agencies as set forth in R.C. § 121.22(D) and (E).
   (E)   (1)   Every public body, by rule, shall establish a reasonable method
whereby any person may determine the time and place of all regularly scheduled
meetings and the time, place and purpose of all special meetings. A public body
shall not hold a special meeting unless it gives at least 24 hours advance
notice to the news media that have requested notification, except in the event
of an emergency requiring immediate official action. In the event of an
emergency, the member or members calling the meeting shall notify the news
media that have requested notification immediately of the time, place and
purpose of the meeting.
      (2)   The rule shall provide that any person, upon request and payment of
a reasonable fee, may obtain reasonable advance notification of all meetings at
which any specific type of public business is to be discussed. Provisions for
advance notification may include, but are not limited to, mailing the agenda of
meetings to all subscribers on a mailing list or mailing notices in self-
addressed, stamped envelopes provided by the person.
   (F)   Except as provided division (F)(8) below, the members of a public body
may hold an executive session only after a majority of a quorum of the public
body determines, by a roll call vote, to hold an executive session and only at
a regular or special meeting for the sole purpose of the consideration of any
of the following matters:
      (1)   To consider the appointment, employment, dismissal, discipline,
promotion, demotion, or compensation of a public employee or official, or the
investigation of charges or complaints against a public employee, official,
licensee or regulated individual, unless the public employee, official,
licensee or regulated individual requests a public hearing. Except as otherwise
provided by law, no public body shall hold an executive session for the
discipline of an elected official for conduct related to the performance of the
elected official’s official duties or for the elected official’s removal from
office. If a public body holds an executive session pursuant to this division
(F)(1), the motion and vote to hold that executive session shall state which
one or more of the approved purposes listed in this division (F)(1) are the
purposes for which the executive session is to be held, but need not include
the name of any person to be considered at the meeting;
      (2)   (a)   To consider the purchase of property for public purposes, the
sale of property at competitive bidding, or the sale or other disposition of
unneeded, obsolete or unfit-for-use property in accordance with R.C. § 505.10,
if premature disclosure of information would give an unfair competitive or
bargaining advantage to a person whose personal, private interest is adverse to
the general public interest. No member of a public body shall use this division
(F)(2) as a subterfuge for providing covert information to prospective buyers
or sellers. A purchase or sale of public property is void if the seller or
buyer of the public property has received covert information from a member of a
public body that has not been disclosed to the general public in sufficient
time for other prospective buyers and sellers to prepare and submit offers;
         (b)   If the minutes of the public body show that all meetings and
deliberations of the public body have been conducted in compliance with this
section, any instrument executed by the public body purporting to convey, lease
or otherwise dispose of any right, title or interest in any public property
shall be conclusively presumed to have been executed in compliance with this
section insofar as title or other interest of any bona fide purchasers, lessees
or transferees of the property is concerned;
      (3)   Conferences with an attorney for the public body concerning
disputes involving the public body that are the subject of pending or imminent
court action;
      (4)   Preparing for, conducting or reviewing negotiations or bargaining
sessions with public employees concerning their compensation or other terms and
conditions of their employment;
      (5)   Matters required to be kept confidential by federal law or
regulations or state statutes;
      (6)   Details relative to the security arrangements and emergency
response protocols for a public body or a public office, if disclosure of the
matters discussed could reasonably be expected to jeopardize the security of
the public body or public office;
      (7)   In the case of a county hospital operated pursuant to R.C. Chapter
339, a joint township hospital operated pursuant to R.C. Chapter 513, or a
municipal hospital operated pursuant to R.C. Chapter 749, to consider trade
secrets, as defined in R.C. § 1333.61;
      (8)   To consider confidential information related to the marketing
plans, specific business strategy, production techniques, trade secrets or
personal financial statements of an applicant for economic development
assistance, or to negotiations with other political subdivisions respecting
requests for economic development assistance; provided that both of the
following conditions apply:
         (a)   The information is directly related to a request for economic
development assistance that is to be provided or administered under any
provision of R.C. Chapters 715, 725, 1724 or 1728 or R.C. §§ 701.07, 3735.67
through 3735.70, 5709.40 through 5709.43, 5709.61 through 5709.69, 5709.73
through 5709.75 or 5709.77 through 5709.81, or that involves public
infrastructure improvements or the extension of utility services that are
directly related to an economic development project; and
         (b)   A unanimous quorum of the public body determines, by a roll call
vote, that the executive session is necessary to protect the interests of the
applicant or the possible investment or expenditure of public funds to be made
in connection with the economic development project.
      (9)   If a public body holds an executive session to consider any of the
matters listed in divisions (F)(2) through (F)(8) above, the motion and vote to
hold that executive session shall state which one or more of the approved
matters listed in those divisions are to be considered at the executive
session; or
      (10)   A public body specified in division (c) of the definition of
“public body” in this section shall not hold an executive session when meeting
for the purposes specified in that division (c).
   (G)   A resolution, rule or formal action of any kind is invalid unless
adopted in an open meeting of the public body. A resolution, rule or formal
action adopted in an open meeting that results from deliberations in a meeting
not open to the public is invalid unless the deliberations were for a purpose
specifically authorized in division (F) above and conducted at an executive
session held in compliance with this section. A resolution, rule or formal
action adopted in an open meeting is invalid if the public body that adopted
the resolution, rule or formal action violated division (E) above.
   (H)   (1)   Any person may bring an action to enforce this section. An
action under this division (H)(1) shall be brought within two years after the
date of the alleged violation or threatened violation. Upon proof of a
violation or threatened violation of this section in an action brought by any
person, the court of common pleas shall issue an injunction to compel the
members of the public body to comply with its provisions.
      (2)   (a)   If the court of common pleas issues an injunction pursuant to
division (H)(1) of this section, the court shall order the public body that it
enjoins to pay a civil forfeiture of $500 to the party that sought the
injunction and shall award to that party all court costs and, subject to
reduction as described in this division (H)(2), reasonable attorney’s fees. The
court, in its discretion, may reduce an award of attorney’s fees to the party
that sought the injunction or not award attorney’s fees to that party if the
court determines both of the following:
            1.   Based on the ordinary application of statutory law and case
law as it existed at the time of violation or threatened violation that was the
basis of the injunction, a well-informed public body reasonably would believe
that the public body was not violating or threatening to violate this section;
and
            2.   A well-informed public body reasonably would believe that the
conduct or threatened conduct that was the basis of the injunction would serve
the public policy that underlies the authority that is asserted as permitting
that conduct or threatened conduct.
         (b)   If the court of common pleas does not issue an injunction
pursuant to division (H)(1) of this section and the court determines at that
time that the bringing of the action was frivolous conduct, as defined in R.C.
§ 2323.51(A), the court shall award to the public body all court costs and
reasonable attorney’s fees, as determined by the court.
      (3)   Irreparable harm and prejudice to the party drat sought the
injunction shall be conclusively and irrefutably presumed upon proof of a
violation or threatened violation of this section.
      (4)   A member of a public body who knowingly violates an injunction
issued pursuant to division (H)(1) above may be removed from office by an
action brought in the court of common pleas for that purpose by the prosecuting
attorney or the attorney general.
(R.C. § 121.22)
Statutory reference:
   Application of open meetings and exceptions to specific state bodies, see
R.C. § 121.22(D), (E) and (J)
CHAPTER 31: GOVERNING BODY
Section
Legislative; City Council
   
31.01   Forms of action by Council
   
31.02   Correction of forms of ordinances
   
31.03   President of Council; election; term; duties
   
31.04   Reports to Council as to municipal conditions
   
31.05   Protest against excess of expenditures
   
31.06   Supervision of officers
   
31.07   Preferring charges against officers
   
31.08   Hearing of charges; action of Council
   
31.09   Suspension of accused pending hearing
   
31.10   Power of Council as to process
   
31.11   Compelling testimony; costs
   
31.12   Salary of Mayor and City Council
Executive; City Manager
   
31.25   Acting City Manager
   
31.26   Vacancy in office of City Manager
   
31.27   Application of chapter 33
   
31.28   Executive power; in whom vested
   
31.29   Powers of officers as to appointments and removals
   
31.30   Appointment of officers
   
31.31   Vacancies in office; how filled
   
31.32   Directors of departments to meet with City Manager
   
31.33   City Manager and officers shall attend Council
   
33.34   When City Manager shall approve contracts
   
31.35   Assistant City Manager
   
31.36   Changing City Manager’s Secretary to Administrative Assistant/Assistant
Code Enforcement Officer
   
31.37   Staffing in the City Manager’s Office; salary
LEGISLATIVE; CITY COUNCIL
§ 31.01 FORMS OF ACTION BY COUNCIL.
   The action of City Council shall be by ordinance or resolution. On all
matters of a general or permanent nature, or granting a franchise, or levying a
tax, or appropriating money, or contracting indebtedness, or issuing bonds or
notes, or for the purchase, lease or transfer of property, action shall be
taken formally, by ordinance, in the manner hereinafter provided. Action on all
other matters of a temporary or informal nature may be taken by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 3.02.01)
§ 31.02 CORRECTION OF FORMS OF ORDINANCES.
   It shall be the duty of the City Council Clerk and of the City Attorney, or
either, whenever the form of a proposed measure does not comply with the
provisions of the preceding sections, to call the attention of City Council
thereto, and the City Attorney shall submit a draft of such measure which, if
adopted, will correct the omission.
(Prior Code, § 3.02.02)
§ 31.03 PRESIDENT OF COUNCIL; ELECTION; TERM; DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(2) below, the
president of the legislative authority of a city shall be elected for a term of
two years, commencing on the first day of January next after election. The
president of the legislative authority shall be an elector of the city, and
shall preside at all regular and special meetings of such legislative
authority, but the president shall have no vote therein except in case of a
tie.
      (2)   A city legislative authority may, by majority vote, adopt a
resolution causing the Board of Elections to submit to the city electors the
question of whether the term of office of the president of the legislative
authority should be changed from two to four years. The question shall be voted
upon at the next general election occurring not less than 90 days after the
certification of the resolution to the Board of Elections. If a majority of the
votes cast on the question is in the affirmative, the term of office of the
president of the legislative authority shall be four years effective on the
first day of January following the next regular municipal election.
   (B)   A city legislative authority whose president’s term of office is four
years may, by majority vote, adopt a resolution causing the Board of Elections
to submit to the city electors the question of whether the president’s term
should be changed from four to two years. The question shall be voted upon at
the next general election occurring not less than 90 days after the
certification of the resolution to the Board of Elections. If a majority of the
votes cast on the question is in the affirmative, the term of the office of the
president of the legislative authority shall be two years effective on the
first day of January following the next regular municipal election.
(R.C. § 733.09) (Prior Code, § 3.03.01)
§ 31.04 REPORTS TO COUNCIL AS TO MUNICIPAL CONDITIONS.
   The Mayor shall communicate to the legislative authority, from time to time,
a statement of the finances of the municipality, and other information relating
thereto, and the general condition of the affairs of the municipality as he or
she deems proper, or as is required by the legislative authority.
(R.C. § 733.32) (Prior Code, § 3.04.08)
§ 31.05 PROTEST AGAINST EXCESS OF EXPENDITURES.
   If, in the opinion of the Mayor, an expenditure authorized by the
legislative authority exceeds the revenues of the municipality for the current
year, he or she shall protest against the expenditure and enter the protest,
and the reason therefor, on the journal of the legislative authority.
(R.C. § 733.33) (Prior Code, § 3.04.09)
§ 31.06 SUPERVISION OF OFFICERS.
   The Mayor shall supervise the conduct of all the officers of the
municipality, inquire into and examine the grounds of all reasonable complaints
against any officers, and cause their violations or neglect of duty to be
punished promptly or reported to the proper authority for correction.
(R.C. § 733.34) (Prior Code, § 3.04.10)
§ 31.07 PREFERRING CHARGES AGAINST OFFICERS.
   The Mayor shall have general supervision over each department and the
officers provided for in Title VII of the Ohio Revised Code. When the Mayor has
reason to believe that the head of a department or an officer has been guilty,
in the performance of his or her official duty, of bribery, misfeasance,
malfeasance, nonfeasance, misconduct in office, gross neglect of duty, gross
immorality or habitual drunkenness, he or she shall immediately file with the
legislative authority, except when the removal of the head of the department or
officer is otherwise provided for, written charges against the person, setting
forth in detail a statement of alleged guilt, and, at the same time, or as soon
thereafter as possible, serve a true copy of the charges upon the person
against whom they are made. Service may be made on the person or by leaving a
copy of the charges at the office of the person. Return thereof shall be made
to the legislative authority, as is provided for the return of the service of
summons in a civil action.
(R.C. § 733.35) (Prior Code, § 3.04.11)
§ 31.08 HEARING OF CHARGES; ACTION OF COUNCIL.
   Charges filed with the legislative authority under §
31.07 shall be heard at the next regular meeting thereof, unless the
legislative authority extends the time for the hearing, which shall be done
only on the application of the accused. The accused may appear in person and by
counsel, examine all witnesses and answer all charges against him or her. The
judgment or action of the legislative authority shall be final, but to remove
the officer the votes of two-thirds of all members elected thereto shall be
required.
(R.C. § 733.36) (Prior Code, § 3.04.12)
§ 31.09 SUSPENSION OF ACCUSED PENDING HEARING.
   Pending any proceedings under §§
31.07 and
31.08, an accused person may be suspended by a majority vote of all members
elected to the legislative authority, but the suspension shall not be for a
longer period than 15 days, unless the hearing of the charges is extended upon
the application of the accused, in which event the suspension shall not exceed
30 days.
(R.C. § 733.37) (Prior Code, § 3.04.13)
§ 31.10 POWER OF COUNCIL AS TO PROCESS.
   For the purpose of investigating charges filed pursuant to R.C. § 733.35
against the head of any department or officer, the legislative authority may
issue subpoenas or compulsory process to compel the attendance of persons and
the production of books and papers before it, and the legislative authority may
provide by ordinance for exercising and enforcing this section.
(R.C. § 733.38) (Prior Code, § 3.04.14)
§ 31.11 COMPELLING TESTIMONY; COSTS.
   In all cases in which the attendance of witnesses may be compelled for an
investigation under §
31.10, any member of the legislative authority may administer the requisite
oaths, and the legislative authority has the same power to compel the giving of
testimony by attending witnesses as is conferred upon courts. In all these
cases, witnesses shall be entitled to the same privileges and immunities as are
allowed witnesses in civil cases. Witnesses shall be paid the same fees and
mileage provided for under R.C. § 1901.26, and the costs of all such
proceedings shall be payable from the General Fund of the municipality.
(R.C. § 733.39) (Prior Code, § 3.04.15)
§ 31.12 SALARY OF MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   City Council members shall be paid a monthly salary of $100 in
accordance with Charter §
4.15, “Council compensation”.
   (B)   That Council President shall be paid a monthly salary of $200 in
accordance with Charter §
4.15, “Council compensation”.
(Ord. 68-21, passed 9-13-2021)
EXECUTIVE; CITY MANAGER
§ 31.25 ACTING CITY MANAGER.
   When the City Manager is absent from the city, or is unable for any cause to
perform his or her duties, the Vice City Manager shall be acting City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 3.03.02)
§ 31.26 VACANCY IN OFFICE OF CITY MANAGER.
   In case of the death, resignation or removal of the City Manager, the Vice
City Manager shall become the City Manager, and shall hold the office until his
or her successor is elected and qualified. A successor shall be elected to the
office for the unexpired term, at the first regular municipal election that
occurs more than 40 days after the vacancy has occurred except that, when the
unexpired term ends within one year immediately following the date of such
election, an election to fill such unexpired term shall not be held and the
president of the legislative authority of the city shall hold the office for
such unexpired term.
(Prior Code, § 3.03.03)
§ 31.27 APPLICATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   Pertinent sections of the Ohio Revised Code relative to the organization,
powers and duties of the executive and administrative offices and boards have
been assembled and adopted as a part of this chapter. No material change to the
Ohio Revised Code sections have been made. The purpose of including these
sections is to afford each such office or board ready access to the extent and
limitations of its powers and duties as fixed by statute.
(Prior Code, § 3.04.01)
§ 31.28 EXECUTIVE POWER; IN WHOM VESTED.
   The executive power of cities shall be vested in a mayor, president of
council, auditor, treasurer, director of law, director of public service,
director of public safety and such other officers and departments as are
provided by R.C. Title VII.
(R.C. § 733.01) (Prior Code, § 3.04.02)
§ 31.29 POWERS OF OFFICERS AS TO APPOINTMENTS AND REMOVALS.
   Such executive officers shall have exclusive right to appoint all officers,
clerks and employees in their respective departments or offices and remove or
suspend any of such officers, clerks or employees, subject to the civil service
laws.
(R.C. § 733.01) (Prior Code, § 3.04.03)
§ 31.30 APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS.
   The director of public service, director of public safety, directors of the
university, street commissioner or any officer or member of a board, whose
appointment is required by R.C. Title VII shall be appointed not earlier than
the second Monday in January and not later than the first Monday in February.
(R.C. § 733.04) (Prior Code, § 3.04.04)
§ 31.31 VACANCIES IN OFFICE; HOW FILLED.
   (A)   (1)   Unless otherwise provided by law, vacancies arising in
appointive and elective offices of villages shall be filled by appointment by
the mayor for the remainder of the unexpired term, provided that:
         (a)   Vacancies in the office of mayor shall be filled in the manner
provided by R.C. § 733.25;
         (b)   Vacancies in the membership of the legislative authority shall
be filled in the manner provided by R.C. § 731.43; and
         (c)   Vacancies in the office of president pro tempore of a village
legislative authority shall be filled in the manner provided by R.C. § 731.11.
      (2)   In the event of a vacancy in the office of village clerk or
treasurer, the mayor may appoint a person to serve as an acting officer to
perform the duties of the office until a permanent officer is appointed to fill
the vacancy.
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided by law, vacancies arising in appointive
offices of cities shall be filled by appointment by the mayor for the remainder
of the unexpired term.
   (C)   A vacancy in the office of president of the legislative authority of a
city shall be filled in the same manner as provided in division (D) below.
Vacancies in the office of mayor of a city shall be filled in the manner
provided in R.C. § 733.08. Vacancies in the membership of the legislative
authority of a city shall be filled in the manner provided in R.C. § 731.43.
   (D)   In case of the death, resignation, removal or disability of the
director of law, auditor or treasurer of a city and such vacancy occurs more
than 40 days before the next general election for such office, a successor
shall be elected at such election for the unexpired term unless such term
expires within one year immediately following the date of such general
election. In either event, the vacancy shall be filled as provided in this
section and the appointee shall hold office until a successor is elected and
qualified.
      (1)   The county central committee of the political party that nominated
the last occupant of the office as a candidate for that office for the current
term, acting through its members who reside in the city where the vacancy
occurs, shall appoint a person to hold the office and to perform the duties
thereof until a successor is elected and has qualified, except that if such
vacancy occurs because of the death, resignation or inability to take the
office of an officer-elect whose term has not yet begun, an appointment to take
such office at the beginning of the term shall be made by the members of the
central committee who reside in the city where the vacancy occurs.
      (2)   Not less than five nor more than 45 days after a vacancy occurs,
the county central committee, acting through its members who reside in the city
where the vacancy occurs, shall meet for the purpose of making an appointment.
Not less than four days before the date of the meeting the chairperson or
secretary of the central committee shall send by first class mail to every
member of such central committee who resides in the city where the vacancy
occurs a written notice which shall state the time and place of such meeting
and the purpose thereof. A majority of the members of the central committee
present at such meeting may make the appointment.
   (E)   If the last occupant of the office or the officer-elect, as provided
in division (D) above, was elected to serve the current term as an independent
candidate, the mayor of the city shall make the appointment at the time the
vacancy occurs.
   (F)   Appointments made under this section shall be certified by the
appointing county central committee or by the mayor of the municipal
corporation to the county board of elections and to the secretary of state. The
persons so appointed and certified shall be entitled to all remuneration
provided by law for the offices to which they are appointed.
   (G)   The mayor of the city may appoint a person to hold the city office of
director of law, auditor or treasurer as an acting officer and to perform the
duties thereof between the occurrence of the vacancy and the time when the
person appointed by the central committee qualifies and takes the office.
(R.C. § 733.31) (Prior Code, § 3.04.05)
§ 31.32 DIRECTORS OF DEPARTMENTS TO MEET WITH CITY MANAGER.
   When the mayor deems it necessary, the directors of the several departments
of the city shall meet with him or her at the time and place he or she
designates, for consultation and advice upon the affairs of the city.
(R.C. § 733.05) (Prior Code, § 3.04.06)
§ 31.33 CITY MANAGER AND OFFICERS SHALL ATTEND COUNCIL.
   The mayor, the directors and the several officers provided for in R.C. Title
VII shall attend the meetings of the legislative authority of the city when
specifically requested by such legislative authority, and answer at such time
questions put to any of them by any member of such legislative authority,
relative to the affairs of the city under their respective management and
control. The mayor shall make such recommendations, in writing, to the
legislative authority for the welfare of the city as seem wise to him.
(R.C. § 733.06) (Prior Code, § 3.04.07)
§ 33.34 WHEN CITY MANAGER SHALL APPROVE CONTRACTS.
   Except as provided in R.C. §§ 713.23(D), 125.04 and 5513.01, no contract in
the Department of Public Service-Safety in excess of $10,000 shall be awarded
except on the approval of the City Manager who shall direct the director of the
appropriate department to enter into the contract.
(Prior Code, § 3.07.02)
§ 31.35 ASSISTANT CITY MANAGER.
   The Assistant City Manager is authorized to act for the City Manager in
emergency situations and during the prolonged absence of the City Manager for
more than three consecutive days.
(Ord. 50-15, passed 10-13-2015)
§ 31.36 CHANGING CITY MANAGER’S SECRETARY TO ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT/ASSISTANT
CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   Effective July 1, 2017, the position of the City Manager’s Secretary is
changed to City Manager’s Administrative Assistant/Assistant Code Enforcement
Officer and the salary shall be as set by ordinance or resolution from time to
time.
(Ord. 35-17, passed 6-26-2017)
§ 31.37 STAFFING IN THE CITY MANAGER’S OFFICE; SALARY.
   (A)   Staffing in the City Manager’s Office shall be as follows:
      (1)   One full-time City Manager;
      (2)   One full-time Code Enforcement Officer;
      (3)   One part-time Council Secretary;
      (4)   One part-time Law Director; and
      (5)   One part-time City Prosecutor.
   (B)   The pay chart for positions within the City Manager’s Office shall be
as follows:
      (1)   The salary of the Code Officer shall be three steps:
 
Code Officer Pay Scale
             Step 1 Step 2 Step 3
Code Officer $17.67 $18.04 $18.47
 
      (2)   For the City Manager’s salary, refer to the contract;
      (3)   Administrative Assistant pay scale:
 
                         Step 1 Step 2 Step 3
Administrative Assistant $14.00 $15.00 $16.00
 
      (4)   For the Law Director and Prosecutor rates, refer to their
contracts;
      (5)   The Council Clerk salary is $1,000 per month; and
      (6)   Council members’ salary is $100 per month.
      (7)   Council President salary is $200 per month.
(Ord. 24-22, passed 3-14-2022; Ord. 07-23, passed 2-13-2023; Ord. 21-23, passed
5-22-2023; Ord. 25-23, passed 5-22-2023; Ord. 40-23, passed 8-14-2023)
CHAPTER 32: OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
City Officials
   
32.01   Auditor’s Office; seal; salary
   
32.02   Duty of Auditor as to receiving bids
   
32.03   Auditing accounts
   
32.04   Overdrawing appropriation; proof of claims
   
32.05   Detailed statements; receipts
   
32.06   Penalty for neglect
   
32.07   Treasurer; quarterly account; annual report
   
32.08   City funds
   
32.09   Semi-annual distribution to municipalities
   
32.10   Duty of delivering money and property
   
32.11   Investment of Treasury funds
   
32.12   Chart of accounts; funds
   
32.13   City Attorney; powers and duties
   
32.14   Who not eligible as City Attorney
   
32.15   Criminal prosecutions
   
32.16   City Attorney; duties as to suits
   
32.17   City prosecutors
   
32.18   Public defender contracts
   
32.19   (Reserved)
   
32.20   Service Director; Utility Department staffing; salary
   
32.21   Bonding of Account Clerk, Account Clerk/Income Tax and Deputy Auditor
   32.22   Ethics, conflicts of interest, code of conduct, and transparency
policies
City Employees and Employment Policies
   
32.35   Elected officials
   
32.36   Appointed officials and employees
   
32.37   Preservation of prior ordinances
   
32.38   Contribution to state public employees retirement system for city
employees
   
32.39   Contribution to the state public employees retirement system for
employees whose labor contractors provide for a pick-up
   
32.40   City employees; union
   
32.41   Other city employees; non-union
   
32.42   Payment for unused sick leave upon employee death
   
32.43   Seasonal staffing
   
32.44   Part-time employees
CITY OFFICIALS
§ 32.01 AUDITOR’S OFFICE; SEAL; SALARY.
   (A)   The legislative authority of a city shall provide a seal for the City
Auditor, in the center of which shall be the name of the city, and around the
margin the words “City Auditor”, an impression of which seal shall be affixed
to all transcripts, orders, certificates or other papers requiring
authentication.
   (B)   Staffing in the Auditor’s Office shall be as follows:
      (1)   One elected City Auditor;
      (2)   One full-time Deputy Auditor; and
      (3)   Two full-time Account Clerks.
   (C)   The Auditor, Deputy Clerk and Account Clerks’ pay chart shall be as
follows:
 
Auditor’s Office Pay Scale
              Step 1 Step 2 Step 3
Account Clerk  $18.21 $18.52 $18.78
Auditor        $44,000 annually + full benefit*
Deputy Auditor $42,500 annually
*Beginning December 1, 2023, Auditor salary increases to $60,000 annually
(R.C. § 733.20) (Prior Code, § 3.03.04) (Ord. 24-22, passed 3-14-2022; Ord. 64-
22, passed 10-24-2022; Ord. 07-23, passed 2-13-2023; Ord. 25-23, passed 5-22-
2023; Ord. 40-23, passed 8-14-2023)
§ 32.02 DUTY OF AUDITOR AS TO RECEIVING BIDS.
   When bids are required to be filed for the letting of contracts by the
director of public service or the Director of Public Safety, the City Auditor
or his or her chief deputy shall attend and assist at the opening thereof and
inspect them.
(R.C. § 733.18) (Prior Code, § 3.03.05)
§ 32.03 AUDITING ACCOUNTS.
   At the end of each fiscal year, or more often if required by the legislative
authority of the municipal corporation, the City Auditor or Village Clerk shall
audit the accounts of all officers and departments. The Auditor or Clerk shall
prescribe the form of accounts and reports to be rendered to his or her
department and the form and method of keeping accounts by all other departments
and, subject to the powers and duties of the Auditor of state, shall have the
inspection and revision thereof. Upon the death, resignation, removal or
expiration of the term of any officer, the Auditor or Clerk shall audit the
accounts of the officer and, if he or she is found indebted to the municipal
corporation, the Auditor or Clerk shall immediately give notice thereof to the
legislative authority and to the village solicitor or city director of law, and
the latter shall proceed forthwith to collect the indebtedness.
(R.C. § 733.12) (Prior Code, § 3.03.06)
§ 32.04 OVERDRAWING APPROPRIATION; PROOF OF CLAIMS.
   The City Auditor or Village Clerk shall not allow the amount set aside for
any appropriation to be overdrawn, or the amount appropriated for one item of
expense to be drawn upon for any other purpose or allow a voucher to be paid
unless sufficient funds are in the Treasury of the municipal corporation to the
credit of the fund upon which such voucher is drawn. When any claim is
presented to the Auditor or Clerk, he or she may require evidence that such
amount is due, and for this purpose may summon any agent, clerk or employee of
the municipal corporation, or any other person, and examine him or her upon
oath or affirmation concerning such voucher or claim.
(R.C. § 733.13) (Prior Code, § 3.03.07)
§ 32.05 DETAILED STATEMENTS; RECEIPTS.
   On the first Monday of each month, detailed statements of the receipts and
expenditures of the several officers and departments of the municipal
corporation for the preceding month shall be made to the City Auditor or
Village Clerk by the heads of the departments. The Auditor or Clerk shall
countersign each receipt given by the Treasurer of the municipal corporation
before it is delivered to the person entitled to receive it, and shall charge
the Treasurer with the amount thereof. If the Auditor or Clerk approves any
voucher contrary to R.C. Title VII, he or she and his or her sureties shall be
individually liable for the amount thereof.
(R.C. § 733.14) (Prior Code, § 3.03.08)
§ 32.06 PENALTY FOR NEGLECT.
   Each City Auditor or Village Clerk who is required to make a certificate
under R.C. § 733.15, and each clerk of the court of common pleas required to
record such certificate when it is presented for record, who neglects or
refuses to perform such duty, shall pay $15 to the Treasurer of the municipal
corporation for each such neglect or refusal, to be recovered in a civil
action, at the suit of such municipal corporation and shall also be liable for
all damages arising from such neglect or refusal.
(R.C. § 733.17) (Prior Code, § 3.03.09)
§ 32.07 TREASURER; QUARTERLY ACCOUNT; ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Treasurer shall settle and account with the legislative authority,
quarterly, and at any other time which it by resolution or ordinance requires.
At the first regular meeting of the legislative authority in January of each
year, the Treasurer shall report to it the condition of the finances of the
municipality, the amount received by the Treasurer, the sources of the
receipts, the disbursements made by him or her and on what account, during the
year preceding. This account shall exhibit the balance due on each fund which
has come into the Treasurer’s hands during the year.
(R.C. § 733.45) (Prior Code, § 3.03.10)
§ 32.08 CITY FUNDS.
   The Treasurer shall receive and disburse all funds of the municipality and
such other funds as arise in or belong to any department or part of the
municipality, except as provided in division (B) below. The Treasurer of a
village that does not have a charter form of government shall not disburse any
funds except upon an order signed by at least one member of the legislative
authority or the Village Clerk and countersigned by the Treasurer. The Clerk-
Treasurer or fiscal officer of a village that does not have a charter form of
government shall not disburse any funds except upon an order signed by at least
one member of the legislative authority and countersigned by the Clerk-
Treasurer or village fiscal officer.
(R.C. § 733.46) (Prior Code, § 3.03.11)
§ 32.09 SEMI-ANNUAL DISTRIBUTION TO MUNICIPALITIES.
   On the first Monday of February and August, each year, the County Treasurer
shall pay over to the Treasurer of the municipal corporation all monies
received by such County Treasurer up to that date, arising from taxes levied
and assessments made, belonging to the municipal corporation. Monies received
from other sources for municipal corporations shall be paid over on or before
the tenth day of each month following the receipt or collections thereof.
(R.C. § 321.33) (Prior Code, § 3.03.12)
§ 32.10 DUTY OF DELIVERING MONEY AND PROPERTY.
   The Treasurer, at the expiration of his or her term of office or on his or
her resignation or removal, shall deliver to his or her successor, all monies,
books, papers and other property in his or her possession as Treasurer. In the
case of the death or incapacity of the Treasurer, his or her legal
representatives shall, in like manner, deliver the money and property which
were in the Treasurer’s hands to the person entitled thereto.
(R.C. § 733.47) (Prior Code, § 3.03.13)
§ 32.11 INVESTMENT OF TREASURY FUNDS.
   Whenever there are monies in the Treasury of the city which will not be
required to be used for a period of six months or more, such monies may, in
lieu of being deposited in a bank or banks, be invested in accordance with the
provisions of R.C. §§ 731.56, 731.57, 731.58 and 731.59. Investments purchased
shall be sold in accordance with R.C. § 731.57. The City Auditor is hereby
directed to distribute monies earned in the city’s bank accounts and
investments, effective July 1, 1991, to all city funds based on the month-
ending fund balance, except those funds for federal or state grants which
prohibit earning such interest.
(Prior Code, § 3.03.14)
§ 32.12 CHART OF ACCOUNTS; FUNDS.
   The Auditor shall maintain a chart of accounts showing all revenues,
expenditures and other funds of the city of which shall, from time to time, be
created by ordinance, statute or at the direction of the State Auditor.
(Prior Code, § 3.03.15)
§ 32.13 CITY ATTORNEY; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The city director of law shall prepare all contracts, bonds and other
instruments in writing in which the city is concerned, and shall serve the
several directors and officers provided in R.C. Title VII as legal counsel and
attorney.
   (B)   The director of law shall be prosecuting attorney of the Mayor’s
court. When the legislative authority of the city allows assistants to the
director of law, he or she may designate the assistants to act as prosecuting
attorneys of the Mayor’s court. The person designated shall be subject to the
approval of the legislative authority.
(R.C. § 733.51) (Prior Code, § 3.03.16)
§ 32.14 WHO NOT ELIGIBLE AS CITY ATTORNEY.
   No person shall be eligible to the office of city director of law who is not
an attorney at law, admitted to practice in this state.
(R.C. § 733.50) (Prior Code, § 3.03.17)
§ 32.15 CRIMINAL PROSECUTIONS.
   (A)   Except as provided in divisions (B) and (D) below, the village
solicitor, city director of law or similar chief legal officer for each
municipal corporation within the territory of a municipal court shall prosecute
all cases brought before the municipal court for criminal offenses occurring
within the municipal corporation for which that person is the solicitor,
director of law or similar chief legal officer. Except as provided in division
(B) below, the village solicitor, city director of law or similar chief legal
officer of the municipal corporation in which a municipal court is located
shall prosecute all criminal cases brought before the court arising in the
unincorporated areas within the territory of the municipal court.
   (B)   (1)   The Auglaize County, Brown County, Clermont County, Columbiana
County, Hocking County, Holmes County, Jackson County, Morrow County, Ottawa
County, Paulding County, Perry County, Portage County and Putnam County
prosecuting attorneys shall prosecute in municipal court all violations of
state law arising in their respective counties. The Carroll County, Crawford
County, Hamilton County, Madison County and Wayne County prosecuting attorneys
and beginning January 1, 2008, the Erie County prosecuting attorney shall
prosecute all violations of state law arising within the unincorporated areas
of their respective counties. The Darke County prosecuting attorney shall
prosecute in the Darke County municipal court all violations of state law
arising in the county, except for violations of state law arising in the
municipal corporation of Greenville and violations of state law arising in the
village of Versailles. The Greene County Board of County Commissioners may
provide for the prosecution of all violations of state law arising within the
territorial jurisdiction of any municipal court located in Greene County. The
Montgomery County prosecuting attorney shall prosecute in the Montgomery County
municipal court all felony, misdemeanor and traffic violations arising in the
unincorporated townships of Jefferson, Jackson, Perry and Clay and all felony
violations of state law and all violations involving a state or county agency
arising within the jurisdiction of the court. All other violations arising in
the territory of the Montgomery County municipal court shall be prosecuted by
the village solicitor, city director of law or similar chief legal officer for
each municipal corporation within the territory of the Montgomery County
municipal court.
      (2)   The prosecuting attorney of any county given the duty of
prosecuting in municipal court violations of state law shall receive no
additional compensation for assuming these additional duties, except that the
prosecuting attorney of Hamilton, Portage and Wayne counties shall receive
compensation at the rate of $4,800 per year, and the prosecuting attorney of
Auglaize County shall receive compensation at the rate of $1,800 per year, each
payable from the County Treasury of the respective counties in semimonthly
installments.
   (C)   The village solicitor, city director of law or similar chief legal
officer shall perform the same duties, insofar as they are applicable to the
village solicitor, city director of law or similar chief legal officer, as are
required of the prosecuting attorney of the county. The village solicitor, city
director of law, similar chief legal officer or any assistants who may be
appointed shall receive for such services additional compensation to be paid
from the Treasury of the county as the Board of County Commissioners
prescribes.
   (D)   The prosecuting attorney of any county, other than Auglaize, Brown,
Clermont, Hocking, Holmes, Jackson, Morrow, Ottawa, Paulding, Perry, Portage or
Putnam County, may enter into an agreement with any municipal corporation in
the county in which the prosecuting attorney serves pursuant to which the
prosecuting attorney prosecutes all criminal cases brought before the municipal
court that has territorial jurisdiction over that municipal corporation for
criminal offenses occurring within the municipal corporation. The prosecuting
attorney of Auglaize, Brown, Clermont, Hocking, Holmes, Jackson, Morrow,
Ottawa, Paulding, Perry, Portage or Putnam County may enter into an agreement
with any municipal corporation in the county in which the prosecuting attorney
serves pursuant to which the respective prosecuting attorney prosecutes all
cases brought before the Auglaize County, Brown County, Clermont County,
Hocking County, Holmes County, Jackson County, Morrow County, Ottawa County,
Paulding County, Perry County, Portage County or Putnam County municipal court
for violations of the ordinances of the municipal corporation or for criminal
offenses other than violations of state law occurring within the municipal
corporation. For prosecuting these cases, the prosecuting attorney and the
municipal corporation may agree upon a fee to be paid by the municipal
corporation, which fee shall be paid into the County Treasury, to be used to
cover expenses of the office of the prosecuting attorney.
(R.C. § 1901.34) (Prior Code, § 3.03.18)
§ 32.16 CITY ATTORNEY; DUTIES AS TO SUITS.
   The city director of law, when required to do so by resolution of the
legislative authority of the city, shall prosecute or defend on behalf of the
city, all complaints, suits and controversies in which the city is a party, and
such other suits, matters and controversies as he or she is, by resolution or
ordinance, directed to prosecute. He or she shall not be required to prosecute
any action before the mayor of the city for the violation of an ordinance
without first advising such action.
(R.C. § 733.53) (Prior Code, § 3.03.19)
§ 32.17 CITY PROSECUTORS.
   There is established within the city the position of one City Prosecutor who
shall serve as assistant to the City Attorney. Compensation for the position of
City Prosecutor shall be set by City Council. The holder of this office shall
be responsible for those duties established by the City Attorney as found in
the job description. There is established within the city the position of City
Criminal Prosecutor. This position shall prosecute all misdemeanor cases for
the city.
(Prior Code, § 3.03.20) (Ord. 01-22, passed 1-24-2022)
§ 32.18 PUBLIC DEFENDER CONTRACTS.
   The City Manager, City Auditor and City Attorney are authorized to execute
the public defender contract attached hereto Ordinance 72-20 and incorporated
herein by reference henceforth from 2019 as long as the contract terms do not
change and the funds are appropriated.
(Ord. 72-20, passed 9-28-2020)
§ 32.19 (RESERVED).
§ 32.20 SERVICE DIRECTOR; UTILITY DEPARTMENT STAFFING; SALARY.
   (A)   Effective April 1, 2021, the position of Utility Director is deleted
and the position of Service Director is created.
   (B)   Staffing in the Utility Department shall be as follows:
      (1)   One full-time Service Director;
      (2)   One full-time Wastewater Operator of Record; and
      (3)   Ten utility technicians.
   (C)   The Utility Department pay chart shall be as follows:
 
Utility Department Pay Scale
                   Step 1 Step 2 Step 3
Service Director    $66,300 annually
Utility Technician  $18.50 $19.04 $19.71
Wastewater Operator $26.01 $27.05 $28.09
 
(Ord. 16-21, passed 3-22-2021; Ord. 24-22, passed 3-14-2022; Ord. 50-22, passed
6-13-2022; Ord. 61-22, passed 9-12-2022; Ord. 07-23, passed 2-13-2023; Ord. 25-
23, passed 5-22-2023; Ord. 40-23, passed 8-14- 2023)
§ 32.21 BONDING OF ACCOUNT CLERK, ACCOUNT CLERK/INCOME TAX AND DEPUTY AUDITOR.
   The positions of Account Clerk, Account Clerk/Income Tax and Deputy Auditor
are required to be bonded as follows:
 
Account Clerk            $20,000
Account Clerk/Income Tax $20,000
Deputy Auditor           $100,000
 
(Ord. 16-20, passed 4-13-2020)
§ 32.22 ETHICS, CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, CODE OF CONDUCT, AND TRANSPARENCY
POLICIES.
   (A)   This section hereby establishes guidelines and policy for all City of
Nelsonville elected and appointed officials to follow, as set forth in Exhibit
A attached to Ordinance 55-23, passed 9-11-2023, which is incorporated by
reference as if fully rewritten herein.
   (B)   This policy shall be read in conjunction with the already existing
Rules of Nelsonville City Council.
(Ord. 55-23, passed 9-11-2023)
CITY EMPLOYEES AND EMPLOYMENT POLICIES
§ 32.35 ELECTED OFFICIALS.
   The salary to be paid to each elected official by the city and the bond
required of each elected official by the city shall be established by City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 3.06.01)
§ 32.36 APPOINTED OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The various positions of appointment in the city shall be created and
established by City Council. The salary to be paid to and bond required of each
appointed official or employee shall be established by City Council.
   (B)   The City Council shall have full power over the creation and
establishment of the various appointed official and employee positions; shall
establish all salaries and bonds; shall establish conditions, rules and
regulations of employment; and shall further make any and all rules pertinent
to the employment of such persons.
   (C)   With respect to any matter, directly or indirectly, related to
employment, the city shall not discriminate against any person because of that
person’s race, color, religion, sex, age, handicap, national origin or
ancestry.
(Prior Code, § 3.06.02)
§ 32.37 PRESERVATION OF PRIOR ORDINANCES.
   Any and all ordinances enacted prior to this codification and not
inconsistent with this codification or subsequently enacted ordinances which
pertain to the establishment and creation of appointed official and employee
positions; the setting of salaries and bonds; and the setting of conditions,
rules and regulations of employment are hereby saved and do remain in full
force and effect.
(Prior Code, § 3.06.03)
§ 32.38 CONTRIBUTION TO STATE PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM FOR CITY
EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Effective April 13, 2021, the full amount of the statutorily required
employee contributions to OPERS shall be withheld from the gross pay of each
person within any of the classes established in division (B) below and shall be
“picked up” (assumed and paid to OPERS) by the city. This “pick up” by the city
shall be designated as public employee contributions and shall be in lieu of
contributions to OPERS by each person within any of the classes established in
division (B) below. No person subject to this “pick up” shall have the option
of choosing to receive the statutorily required contribution to OPERS directly
instead of having it “picked up” by the city or of being excluded from the
“pick up”. The city shall, in reporting and making remittance to OPERS, report
that the public employees contribution for each person subject to this “pick
up” has been made as provided by the statute. Therefore, contributions,
although designated as employee contributions, are employer-paid, and employees
do not have the option to receive the contributions directly. All contributions
are paid by the employer directly to the plan.
   (B)   The “pick up” by the city provided by this section shall apply to all
persons that are employees of the city who are or become contributing members
of OPERS.
   (C)   The city method of payment of salary to employees who are participants
in OPERS is hereby modified as provided in division (D) below, in order to
provide for a salary reduction pick up of employee contributions to OPERS.
   (D)   (1)   The total salary for each employee shall be the salary otherwise
payable under the city policies. Such total salary of each employee shall be
payable by the city in two parts:
         (a)   Deferred salary; and
         (b)   Cash salary.
      (2)   An employee’s deferred salary shall be equal to that percentage of
that employee’s total salary which is required from time to time by OPERS to be
paid as an employee contribution by that employee, and shall be paid by the
city to OPERS on behalf of that employee as a pick-up and in lieu of the OPERS
employee contribution otherwise payable by that employee.
      (3)   An employee’s cash salary shall be equal to that employee’s total
salary less the amount of the pick-up for that employee, and shall be payable,
subject to applicable payroll deductions, to that employee. The city shall
compute and remit its employer contributions to OPERS based upon an employee’s
total salary. The total combined expenditures of the city for such employees’
total salaries payable under applicable city, policies and the pick-up
provisions of this resolution shall not be greater than the amounts it would
have paid for those items had this provision not been in effect.
   (E)   The Treasurer and/or the Clerk are hereby authorized and directed to
implement the provisions of this section to institute the “pick up” of the
statutorily required contributions to OPERS for those persons reflected in
division (B) above herein so as to enable them to obtain the result in federal
and state tax deferments.
(Ord. 27-21, passed 4-12-2021)
§ 32.39 CONTRIBUTION TO THE STATE PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM FOR
EMPLOYEES WHOSE LABOR CONTRACTORS PROVIDE FOR A PICK-UP.
   (A)   Effective April 1, 2021, 2% of the statutorily required employee
contributions to OPERS shall be picked up and paid as a fringe benefit by the
city for each person within any of the classes established in division (B)
below. The pick-up shall be an offset against future salary increases. This
“pick-up” by the city shall be designated as public employee contributions and
shall be in lieu of contributions to OPERS by each person within any of the
classes established in division (B) below. No person subject to this “pick-up”
shall have the option of choosing to receive the statutorily required
contribution to OPERS directly instead of having it “picked-up” by the city or
of being excluded from the “pick-up”. The city shall, in reporting and making
remittance to OPERS, report that the public employees contribution for each
person subject to this “pick up” has been made as provided by the statute.
Therefore, contributions, although designated as employee contributions, are
employer-paid, and employees do not have the option to receive the
contributions directly. All contributions are paid by the employer directly to
the plan.
   (B)   The “pick-up” by the city provided by this section shall apply to
employees whose labor contracts provide for a pick-up and the Deputy Auditor,
Police Clerk and Code Enforcement Officer that are employees of the city who
are or will become contributing members of OPERS.
   (C)   Under the fringe-benefit method of employer pick up, salary is not
modified; however, the employer will pay 2% of the employees’ statutorily
required contribution to OPERS. The remaining contributions will be handled in
the salary reduction manner.
   (D)   The Treasurer and/or the Clerk are hereby authorized and directed to
implement the provisions of this section to institute the “pick up” of the
statutorily required contributions to OPERS for those persons reflected in
division (B) above so as to enable them to have their employee contributions
paid by their employer.
(Ord. 23-21, passed 3-22-2021)
§ 32.40 CITY EMPLOYEES; UNION.
   (A)   City employees of the Service and Fire Department are presently
represented by American Federation of state, county and municipal employees.
   (B)   Their working conditions and salaries are provided in an agreement
with the city; similar working agreements are in effect with the Fraternal
Order of Police covering police employees.
   (C)   Copies of these agreements may be obtained from the office of the City
Manager.
   (D)   (1)   Benefits and offerings for full-time union employees will match
approved language in collective bargaining agreements.
      (2)   Benefits, offerings and limitations for the Police Chief, Fire
Chief, Service Director, Sewer Plant Director, Police Clerk and Deputy Auditor
will operate according to past/best practice, employee handbook, and set
policies.
(Prior Code, § 3.08.01) (Ord. 24-22, passed 3-14-2022; Ord. 07-23, passed 2-13-
2023; Ord. 25-23, passed 5-22-2023; Ord. 40-23, passed 8-14-2023)
§ 32.41 OTHER CITY EMPLOYEES; NON-UNION.
   Working conditions of all city employees not covered by a collective
bargaining agreement are set by ordinance. Copies of which may be obtained form
the City Council Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 3.08.02)
§ 32.42 PAYMENT FOR UNUSED SICK LEAVE UPON EMPLOYEE DEATH.
   The city adopts a policy pursuant to R.C. § 124.39(C) that employees who die
while employed shall receive payment for unused sick leave the same as if they
had retired.
(Ord. 40-21, passed 5-10-2021)
§ 32.43 SEASONAL STAFFING.
   Seasonal staffing is as follows:
   (A)   One seasonal aquatics center manager at $10,000 per season;
   (B)   Up to two head lifeguards at $12 per hour; and
   (C)   Up to 20 part-time aquatics center lifeguard attendants at $11 per
hour.
(Ord. 70-21, passed 9-13-2021; Ord. 24-22, passed 3-14-2022; Ord. 07-23, passed
2-13-2023; Ord. 25-23, passed 5-22-2023; Ord. 40-23, passed 8-14-2023)
§ 32.44 PART-TIME EMPLOYEES.
   Part-time, non-seasonal employees shall be offered dental, eye and life
insurance. Health insurance will not be offered for part-time employees.
(Ord. 25-23, passed 5-22-2023; Ord. 40-23, passed 8-14-2023 )
CHAPTER 33: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Organizations; Generally
   
33.01   City Records Commission
   
33.02   Board of Health unites with County Health District
Recreation Program Advisory Committee
   
33.15   City Recreation Program Advisory Committee; definitions
   
33.16   Establishment of Committee
   
33.17   Powers and duties
Community Relations Commission
   
33.30   Definitions
   
33.31   Unlawful discriminatory practices
   
33.32   Posting of notices
   
33.33   Establishment of the Community Relations Commission
   
33.34   Purpose of the Community Relations Commission
   
33.35   Powers and duties of the Community Relations Commission
   
33.36   Procedures and enforcement
   
33.37   Construction
   
33.38   Other legal action
Utilities Unit Office
   
33.50   Creation
   
33.51   Members
   
33.52   Auditor’s office
   
33.53   Water plant staffing
   
33.54   Pay for transfers
Tree Commission
   
33.65   Creation of Tree Commission
 
   
33.99   Penalty
ORGANIZATIONS; GENERALLY
§ 33.01 CITY RECORDS COMMISSION.
   A Records Commission for the city, consisting of the Chief Executive, a
Chairperson, the Chief Fiscal Officer, the Chief Legal Officer and one other
citizen named by the chief executive, is established as provided in R.C. §
149.39; the members of the Commission shall be appointed and serve in
accordance with, and shall be subject to, all the provisions of the Ohio
Revised Code pertaining to the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 3.07.01)
§ 33.02 BOARD OF HEALTH UNITES WITH COUNTY HEALTH DISTRICT.
   (A)   The City Board of Health and the County Health District are united and
shall be known as the City-County Health District.
   (B)   Administration of all health affairs shall be granted to the City
Board of Health.
(Prior Code, § 3.07.03)
RECREATION PROGRAM ADVISORY COMMITTEE
§ 33.15 CITY RECREATION PROGRAM ADVISORY COMMITTEE; DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of §§
33.15 through
33.17, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATION. The City Manager of the City of Nelsonville, Ohio.
   COMMITTEE. The City Recreation Program Advisory Committee.
(Prior Code, § 3.07.04)
§ 33.16 ESTABLISHMENT OF COMMITTEE.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established a committee to be known as the
City Recreation Advisory Committee consisting of five members to be appointed,
two of whom shall be appointed by the City Board of Education and three of whom
shall be appointed by the City Manager with the advice and consent of City
Council. All members of the Committee shall be electors of the city, except
that one of the members appointed by the School Board may reside outside the
corporate limits but within the boundaries of the school district.
   (B)   All members of the Committee shall serve terms of three years each,
except that members first appointed shall be appointed such that the term of
one member shall expire annually thereafter. Vacancies on this Committee
occurring otherwise than by the expiration of terms, shall be filled for the
unexpired term and appointed in the same manner as the original appointments.
All members shall serve without compensation.
   (C)   Three members shall constitute a quorum, with a majority vote of the
full voting membership necessary to take any official action. The Committee
shall maintain a record of its proceedings and shall adopt such rules and
regulations of self-government as may be necessary to carry out the purposes
and provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 3.07.05)
§ 33.17 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Committee shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   Advise the administration in matters relating to the adoption of
programming, policies and procedures for the operation, equipment and
maintenance of parks, playgrounds, play fields, public baths, swimming pools,
indoor recreation centers, gymnasiums for any land or buildings owned by the
city not dedicated to public use other than for recreational use;
   (B)   Advise the administration in matters relating to the job
qualifications and employment of personnel in the City Recreation Department;
   (C)   Prepare and submit an annual report of its activities to the City
Manager and to make such other reports and recommendations to the City Manager,
from time to time, as may be deemed necessary by the City Manager; and
   (D)   Undertake such other studies and assignments on recreational matters
as may be requested by the administration.
(Prior Code, § 3.07.06)
COMMUNITY RELATIONS COMMISSION
§ 33.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMISSION. The Community Relations Commissions of the City of Nelsonville.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of Nelsonville, Ohio.
   DISCRIMINATION. Any difference in treatment based on race, creed, color,
sex, national origin or ancestry, marital status, religious belief, age or
handicap.
   DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof designated or used as the
residence of one or more human beings.
   EMPLOYEE. Does not include any individual employed in the domestic service
of any person.
   EMPLOYER. Includes any person employing one or more persons within the city
and any person acting in the interest of an employer, directly or indirectly.
   FAMILIAL STATUS. One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18
years being domiciled with:
      (1)   A parent or another person having legal custody of such individual
or individuals; or
      (2)   The designee of such parent or other person having such custody,
with the written permission of such parent or other person. The protections
afforded against discrimination on the basis of familial status shall apply to
any person who is pregnant or is in the process of securing legal custody of
any individual who has not attained the age of 18 years.
   HOUSING ACCOMMODATION.
      (1)   Any building, structure or portion thereof which is used or
occupied as the home, residence or sleeping place of one or more human beings;
      (2)   A parcel or parcels of real estate or any lot or lots, available
for the building of a home, residence or dwelling;
      (3)   Unit shall denote that portion of a housing structure, which may be
the entire structure that is occupied by an individual, group or family for the
purposes stated herein; or
      (4)   Rooming house shall be deemed to contain as many units as there are
unrelated individuals occupying separate space therein.
   LABOR ORGANIZATION. Includes any organization which exists for the purpose,
in whole or in part, of collective bargaining or of dealing with employers
concerning grievances, terms or conditions of employment, or for other mutual
aid or protection in relation to employment.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, partnerships, associations,
organizations, corporations, legal representatives, trustee, trustees in
bankruptcy, receivers, labor organizations, mutual companies, joint stock
companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, fiduciaries and other
organized groups of persons.
   PLACE OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATIONS. Any inn, restaurant, eating house,
barbershop, public conveyance by air, land or water, theater, store or other
place for the sale of merchandise, or any other place of public accommodation
or amusement where the accommodation, advantages, facilities or privileges
thereof are available to the public.
(Prior Code, § 3.07.07)
§ 33.31 UNLAWFUL DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES.
   (A)   Discrimination in employment. It shall be unlawful to do the
following:
      (1)   For any employer, because of the race, creed, color, sex, national
origin or ancestry, marital or familial status, religious belief, age or
handicap or of any person to refuse to hire or otherwise discriminate against
him or her with respect to hire, tenure, conditions or privileges of
employment, or any matter directly or indirectly related to employment;
      (2)   For any labor organization to discriminate against any person or
limit his or her employment opportunities or otherwise adversely affect his or
her status as an employee as to his or her wages, hours, employment conditions
because of his or her race, creed, color, sex, national origin or ancestry,
marital or familial status, religious belief, age or handicap of any
prospective employee; and
      (3)   For any person providing employment to publish, or cause to be
published, any advertisement which specifies or in any manner indicates or
expresses a limitation or preference as to the race, creed, color, sex,
national origin or ancestry, marital or familial status, religious belief, age
or handicap of any prospective employee.
   (B)   Discrimination in public accommodation. It shall be unlawful for any
proprietor or his or her employer, keeper or manager in place of public
accommodation to deny any person, except for reasons applicable alike to all
persons, regardless of race, creed, color, sex, national origin or ancestry,
marital or familial status, religious belief, age or handicap, the full
enjoyment of the accommodations, advantages, facilities or privileges thereof.
   (C)   Discrimination in housing. It shall be unlawful to do the following:
      (1)   For an owner, lessee, sublessee, assignee, real estate broker, real
estate salesperson, managing agent of or other person having the right to sell,
rent, lease, sublease, assign, transfer or otherwise dispose of a housing
accommodation, or any agent of these, to refuse to sell, to refuse to rent,
lease, sublease, assign, transfer or otherwise deny to or withhold from any
person group of persons such housing accommodations or represent that such
housing accommodations are not available for inspection when in fact they are
so available, because of the race, creed, color, sex national origin or
ancestry, marital or familial status, religious belief, age or handicap of such
person or persons, or discriminate against or segregate any person because of
his or her race, creed, color, sex, national origin or ancestry, marital or
familial status, religious belief, age or handicap in the terms, conditions or
privileges of the sale, rental, lease, sublease, assignment, transfer or other
disposition of any such housing accommodation or to do any other thing or
engage in conduct which would otherwise make unavailable equal housing
opportunities;
      (2)   For a person to publish, circulate, issue or display, or cause to
be published, circulated, issued or displayed, any communication, notice,
advertisement or sign or any kind relating to the sale, rental, lease,
sublease, assignment, transfer or listing of a housing accommodation or
accommodations which indicates any preference, limitation, specification or
discrimination based on race, creed, color, sex, national origin or ancestry,
marital or familial status, religious belief, age or handicap;
      (3)   For a person, bank, banking organization, mortgage company,
insurance company or other financial institution of lenders, or agent or
employee thereof, to whom application is made for financial assistance for the
purchase, lease, acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, repair or
maintenance of any housing accommodation to discriminate against any person or
group of persons because of race, creed, color, sex, national origin or
ancestry, marital or familial status, religious belief, age or handicap of such
person or group of persons or of the prospective occupants or tenants of such
real property in the granting, withholding, extending, modifying or renewing,
or in the rates, terms, conditions or privileges of, any such financial
assistance or in the extensions of services in connection thereof;
      (4)   For an owner, lessee, sublessee, assignee, real estate broker, real
estate salesperson, managing agent of or other person having the right to sell,
rent, lease, sublease, assign, transfer or otherwise dispose of a housing
accommodation, or any agent of any of these to discriminate against any person
by refusing to negotiate, making false representations on the availability of
the housing unit or withdrawing from the market a housing unit which is for
sale, lease, sublease or rental;
      (5)   For an owner, lessee, sublessee, assignee, real estate broker, real
estate salesperson, managing agent of or other person having the right to sell,
rent, lease, sublease, assign, transfer or otherwise dispose of a housing
accommodation or any agent of any of these to include in the terms, conditions
or privileges of any sale, lease, sublease, rental, assignment or other
transfer of any housing, any clause, condition or restrictions discriminating
against any person in the use or occupancy of such housing;
      (6)   For an owner, lessee, sublessee, assignee, real estate broker, real
estate salesperson, managing agent of or other person having the right to sell,
rent, lease, sublease, assign, transfer or otherwise dispose of a housing
accommodation, or any agent of any of these to discriminate in the furnishing
of any facilities, repairs, improvements or services or in the terms,
conditions or privileges or tenure of occupancy of any person; and
      (7)   For any real estate agent or other individual:
         (a)   To induce or attempt to induce a sale, transfer of interest or
listing for sale of any housing by making representations regarding the
existing or potential proximity of real property owned, used or occupied by any
person of any particular race, creed, color, sex, national origin or ancestry,
marital or familial status, religious belief, age or handicap, by direct or
indirect methods;
         (b)   To make any representation to any prospective purchaser or
lessee that any housing in a particular block, neighborhood or area may
undergo, is undergoing or has undergone a change with respect to race, creed,
color, sex, national origin or ancestry, marital or familial status, religious
belief, age or handicap of such block, neighborhood or area; and
         (c)   To induce or attempt to induce a sale or listing for sale of any
housing by representation that the presence or anticipated presence of persons
of any particular race, creed, color, sex, national origin or ancestry, marital
or familial status, religious belief, age or handicap in the area will or may
result in:
            1.   The lowering of property values;
            2.   A change in racial, color, religious, nationality or ethnic
composition of the block, neighborhood or area in which the property is
located;
            3.   An increase in criminal or anti-social behavior in the area;
and
            4.   A decline in the quality of the schools serving the area.
   (D)   Aiding and abetting discrimination. It shall be unlawful for a person
to assist, aid, abet, entice, incite or coerce another person to commit an act
for or engage in any practices forbidden by this section.
   (E)   Exemptions. The provisions of this subchapter as it pertains to sexual
orientation shall not apply to religious schools, churches engaged in religious
activities and owner-occupied residences with not more than three unrelated
renters.
(Prior Code, § 3.07.08) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.32 POSTING OF NOTICES.
   Every real estate agent shall post in a conspicuous location in that portion
of his or her place of business normally used by him or her for negotiating the
terms of a sale or lease of housing, and each person who operates a housing
accommodation with one or more units shall post, at all times when prospective
tenants are being interviewed, in a conspicuous location in that portion of his
or her housing business normally used by him or her for negotiating the rental
of a housing unit therein, a notice prepared and provided by the Community
Relations Commission which contains the following language, printed in black on
a light-colored background, in not less than 14-point type:
   “It is a violation of the Community Relations law of the City of
Nelsonville, State of Ohio, for any real estate agent, or for any person owning
or managing multi-unit apartment dwelling to:
      (1)   Deny housing to any person because of race, creed, color, sex,
national origin or ancestry, marital or familial status, religious belief, age
or handicap; or
      (2)   Discriminate against any person because of that person’s race,
creed, color, sex, national origin or ancestry, marital or familial status,
religious belief, age or handicap, with respect to the terms, conditions or
privileges of housing accommodation in the furnishing of facilities and
services in connection therewith.
   IF YOU BELIEVE YOU HAVE BEEN DISCRIMINATED AGAINST, CONTACT THE CITY OF
NELSONVILLE COMMUNITY RELATIONS COMMISSION, THE OHIO CIVIL RIGHTS COMMISSION,
OR THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT.”
(Prior Code, § 3.07.09) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.33 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE COMMUNITY RELATIONS COMMISSION.
   There is hereby created and established a commission to be known as the
Community Relations Commission, consisting of 11 members to be appointed by the
City Council. Members of the Commission shall be broadly representative of the
members of the city community. Minority groups shall be represented on the
Commission at all times. All members shall serve without compensation. Of the
members appointed, four shall be appointed for two-year terms, four shall be
appointed for three-year terms and three shall be appointed for four-year
terms. The Commission shall select its own Chairperson who shall have a vote
only in the event of a tie. In the event of the death or resignation of any
member, his or her successor shall be appointed to serve the unexpired term for
which such member has been appointed. Six members of the Commission shall
constitute a quorum. The Commission shall maintain a record of its hearings. A
member who misses three consecutive meetings, without excuse, shall
automatically cease to be a member and his or her seat shall become vacant.
(Prior Code, § 3.07.10)
§ 33.34 PURPOSE OF THE COMMUNITY RELATIONS COMMISSION.
   The Community Relations Commission shall endeavor to bring about and
maintain harmony within the city community and to avoid, or reduce, intergroup
tensions, to promote tolerance and goodwill and to ensure equality of treatment
and of opportunity of all persons regardless of race, creed, color, sex,
national origin or ancestry, marital or familial status, religious belief, age
or handicap.
(Prior Code, § 3.07.11)
§ 33.35 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE COMMUNITY RELATIONS COMMISSION.
   The Community Relations Commission shall:
   (A)   Promote mutual understanding and respect among all sections of the
city community and work to discourage and prevent discrimination practices
against any such group;
   (B)   Disseminate information and educational materials and reports which
will assist in the elimination of prejudice, intolerance, intergroup tensions
and discrimination or which will promote goodwill and promote programs of
community education and information with the object of promoting better human
relations;
   (C)   Assist various groups and agencies of the community to cooperate in
educational campaigns devoted to the elimination of group prejudices, racial or
area tensions and intolerance of discrimination;
   (D)   Cooperate with city, state, federal and other agencies in order to
promote better human relations;
   (E)   Recommend such legislation as may be deemed appropriate and necessary
to promote harmony in the field of human relations and continually assist in
the preparation of city legislation in terms of its human relations impact and
to establish policies for the sanction of persons found to be in violation of §
33.31 more than once, send annual notices of these policies to real estate
agents, landlords, lending institutions and others;
   (F)   Prepare and submit an annual report of its activities to the City
Council and to make such other reports and recommendations to the City Council,
from time to time, as it may deem necessary for the furtherance of improved
human relations in the city;
   (G)   Adopt such rules and regulations of self-government as may be
necessary to carry out the purpose and provisions of §
33.31;
   (H)   Receives and investigates complaints and initiates its own
investigations of:
      (1)   Racial, religious, ethnic and other group tensions, prejudice,
intolerance, bigotry and disorder occasioned thereby; and
      (2)   Discrimination as defined by §
33.30 against any person, group of persons, organizations or corporations,
whether practiced by private persons, associations or other group.
   (I)   Hold hearings, subpoena witnesses, administer oaths and, in
connections therewith, to require the production for examination of any books
or papers relating to any matter under investigation or in question before the
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 3.07.12)
§ 33.36 PROCEDURES AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person subject to an unlawful housing practice or an unlawful
discriminatory employment or public accommodation practice may file, within 180
days of the alleged violation, with the Commission, a complaint, in writing,
sworn to or affirmed, which shall state the name and address of the person
alleged to have committed the violation complained of and the particulars
thereof, and such other information as may be required by the Commission.
   (B)   Upon the filing of the complaint, the Commission shall make such an
investigation as it deems appropriate to ascertain facts and issues. If the
Commission determines that there are reasonable grounds to believe a violation
has occurred, it shall attempt to conciliate the matter by methods of initial
conference and persuasion with the interested parties and such representatives
as the parties may choose to assist them. Conciliation conferences shall be
informal and nothing said or done during such initial conferences shall be made
public by the Commission or any member of the Commission or its staff unless
the parties agree thereto in writing.
   (C)   The terms of the conciliation agreed to by the parties shall be
reduced to writing and incorporated into a consent agreement to be signed by
the parties, which agreement is for conciliation purposes only and does not
constitute an admission by any party that the law has been violated. Consent
agreements shall be signed on behalf of the Commission by its Chairperson.
   (D)   The Commission is authorized to seek the cooperation and aid of the
State Real Estate Board or the State Civil Rights Commission in any
investigation under §
33.31.
   (E)   If the Commission determines that the complaint lacks reasonable
grounds upon which to base a violation of §
33.31, the Commission may, in its discretion, dismiss such complaint or order
such further investigation as may be necessary, provided that the Commission
shall not dismiss such complaint without first affording the complainant an
opportunity to appear before the Commission.
   (F)   (1)   If the Commission, with respect to a matter which involves a
violation of §
33.31, fails to conciliate a complaint after the parties have in good faith
attempted such conciliation, fails to effect an informal conciliation agreement
or a formal consent agreement or determines that the complaint is not
susceptible of conciliation, the Commission shall thereafter schedule a public
hearing to determine whether a violation of §
33.31 has been committed.
      (2)   The Commission shall serve upon the respondent a statement of
charges and summons and shall serve upon all interested parties a notice of the
time and place of hearing. The respondent, or his or her authorized counsel,
may file such statements with the Commission prior to the hearing date it deems
necessary in support of its position.
      (3)   (a)   The hearing shall be open to the public except that the
respondent may request, in writing, a private hearing; the determination of
such request shall be discretionary with the Commission. The hearing shall be
held not less than 15 days after service of the statement of charges and
summons.
         (b)   The summons so issued must be signed by two members of the
Commission and the issuance of such summons shall require the attendance of the
named persons and the production of relevant documents and records.
      (4)   The failure to comply with a summons shall constitute a violation
of §
33.31. Interested parties may, at their option, appear before the Commission in
person or by duly authorized representatives and may have the assistance of an
attorney.
      (5)   (a)   The parties may present testimony and evidence, and the right
to cross- examine witnesses shall be preserved. All testimony and evidence
shall be given under oath or by affirmation.
         (b)   The Commission shall keep a full record of the hearing, which
record shall be public and open to inspection by any person and, upon request
by any principal party to the proceeding, the Commission shall furnish such
party a copy of the hearing record, if any, at such cost as the Commission
deems appropriate.
   (G)   If, at the conclusion of the hearing, the Commission shall determine
upon the preponderance of the evidence that the person complained against has
violated §
33.31, the Commission shall, after consultation with the City Attorney in
executive session, state its findings to and cause the City Attorney to prepare
and issue an order under Commission directive requiring the person complained
against to cease and desist from such unlawful conduct, with notice that if the
Commission determined that the person complained against has not, after 15
calendar days following service of the Commission’s order, complied with the
order, the Commission will recertify the matter to the City Attorney for
enforcement through whatever legal and appropriate channels as may be
necessary.
   (H)   If, at the conclusion of the hearing, the Commission shall determine
upon the preponderance of the evidence of the record that the person complained
against has not violated §
33.31, the Commission shall state and publish its findings and issue its order
dismissing the complaint.
(Prior Code, § 3.07.13)
§ 33.37 CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall be construed liberally for the
accomplishment of the purposes thereof. Nothing contained in this subchapter is
intended to conflict with any general law in the state or the United States,
and particularly with the statutes providing for the administration of the law
by the State Civil Rights Commission, under R.C. §§ 4112.01 through 4112.99.
This subchapter shall not be applicable in matters involving the persons and
practices which have come under the jurisdiction of the State Civil Rights
Commission by the filing of a complaint with said Commission.
   (B)   If any of the provisions of this subchapter, or portion thereof, or
applications of such provisions or portions to any person or circumstance shall
be held invalid, the remainder of this subchapter and their application to
persons or circumstances other than those to which it is held invalid shall not
be affected thereby.
(Prior Code, § 3.07.14)
§ 33.38 OTHER LEGAL ACTION.
   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall prevent any person from
exercising any right of seeking any remedy to which he or she might otherwise
be entitled or from filing any complaint with any other agency or court of law
for equity.
(Prior Code, § 3.07.15)
UTILITIES UNIT OFFICE
§ 33.50 CREATION.
   Effective on or before June 1, 2018, a utilities unit office is created.
(Ord. 09-18, passed 2-26-2018)
§ 33.51 MEMBERS.
   Effective on or before June 1, 2018, the utilities unit office shall consist
of one lead Street Department worker, one lead Water and Sewer Department
worker and four general utility workers. The City Manager is the supervisor of
the utilities unit office.
(Ord. 09-18, passed 2-26-2018)
§ 33.52 AUDITOR’S OFFICE.
   Effective on or before June 1, 2018, the Auditor’s office shall consist of
the Auditor, full-time Deputy Auditor/Income Tax Administrator and two full-
time Account Clerks. The Auditor’s office will have responsibility for the
water collections office in addition to existing duties assigned to the office.
(Ord. 09-18, passed 2-26-2018)
§ 33.53 WATER PLANT STAFFING.
   Effective on or before June 1, 2018, the staffing of the water plant shall
be two full-time employees and one part-time employee not to exceed 24 hours
per week. The part-time employee may, at the discretion of the City Manager, be
utilized in the utilities unit office or at the sewer plant as needed.
(Ord. 09-18, passed 2-26-2018)
§ 33.54 PAY FOR TRANSFERS.
   Pay for all current employee transferred to new positions shall remain the
same as they are currently receiving.
(Ord. 09-18, passed 2-26-2018)
TREE COMMISSION
§ 33.65 CREATION OF TREE COMMISSION.
   The city desires to create a Tree Commission to advise the city and its
residents on proper selection, planting and care for trees within the corporate
limits. The City Code Title 33 City Tree Commission attached to Ordinance 52-15
is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in full herein. Copies are
available through city offices.
(Ord. 52-15, passed 10-13-2015)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.30 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of this
subchapter, or any amendment or supplement thereto, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in accordance with
R.C. § 2929.21(D). Each and every day during which such discrimination
continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 3.07.99)
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC SAFETY; LAW ENFORCEMENT
Section
Department of Public Service
   
34.001   Office of public safety and the Department of Public Services merged
   
34.002   General duties; records; contracts
   
34.003   Supervision; powers
   
34.004   Management of public utilities
   
34.005   General duties of Police and Fire Departments
   
34.006   Powers of Chief of Police and Fire Departments as to suspensions
   
34.007   Reduction and dismissal; Police and Fire Departments
   
34.008   Classification of service; rules and regulations
   
34.009   Relief of members of Police and Fire Department
   
34.010   Clothing and equipment allowance
Police Department
   
34.025   Chief of Police
   
34.026   Public service supervision by City Manager
   
34.027   Auxiliary police unit
   
34.028   Emergency patrol officers
   
34.029   Private police
   
34.030   Police Department staffing; salary
   
34.031   Civil service and public employees’ retirement
   
34.032   Pension pick-up for Police Department employees
Handling of Property
   
34.045   Property recovered by police
   
34.046   Police Department Clerk/Secretary
   
34.047   Deposit of stolen property; prohibition
   
34.048   Disposition to claimant
   
34.049   Sale of unclaimed property; disposition of proceeds
   
34.050   Sale of unclaimed property; expenses to be paid
Fire Department
   
34.065   Chief of Fire Department
   
34.066   Fire Department regulations
   
34.067   Firefighters exempt from certain public service
   
34.068   Regulation of erection of houses and business structures; removal
   
34.069   Investigation of fires
   
34.070   Power to make arrests
   
34.071   Schooling of officers and firefighters
   
34.072   Record of fires
   
34.073   Practice drills
   
34.074   Civil service system applicable
   
34.075   Fire Department authorized to extend its services or the use of its
equipment to other subdivisions of the state
   
34.076   Emergency firefighters
   
34.077   Fire Department staffing; salary
   
34.078   Fire Chief authorized to change the hours of work
   
34.079   Mitigation rates for the deployment of emergency and non-emergency
services by the Fire Department
   
34.080   Pension pick-up for Fire Department employees
 
   
34.999   Penalty
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SERVICE
§ 34.001 OFFICE OF PUBLIC SAFETY AND THE DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SERVICES MERGED.
   The office of public safety and the office of the Director of Public Service
are hereby merged, and the City Manager shall assume responsibility for the
merged department.
(Prior Code, § 3.05.01)
§ 34.002 GENERAL DUTIES; RECORDS; CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Under the direction of the Mayor, the Director of Public Safety shall
be the executive head of the Police and Fire Departments and the chief
administrative authority of the charity, correction and building departments.
He or she shall have all powers and duties connected with and incident to the
appointment, regulation and government of such departments except as otherwise
provided by law. He or she shall keep a record of his or her proceedings, a
copy of which, certified by him or her, shall be competent evidence in all
courts.
   (B)   Such Director shall make all contracts in the name of the city with
reference to the management of such departments, for the erection or repair of
all buildings or improvements in connection therewith and for the purchase of
all supplies necessary for such departments.
(R.C. § 737.02) (Prior Code, § 3.05.02)
Statutory reference:
   Specific powers and duties, R.C. §§ 737.02 to 737.03
§ 34.003 SUPERVISION; POWERS.
   (A)   The Director of Public Service shall manage and supervise all public
works and undertakings of the city, except as otherwise provided by law.
   (B)   The Director shall supervise the improvement and repair of streets,
avenues, alleys, lands, lanes, squares, wharves, docks, landings, market
houses, bridges, viaducts, aqueducts, sidewalks, playgrounds sewers, drains,
ditches, culverts, ship channels, streams and watercourses; the lighting,
sprinkling and cleaning of public places; and the construction of public
improvements and public works, except those having reference to the Department
of Public Safety, or as otherwise provided in R.C. Title VII.
(R.C. § 735.02) (Prior Code, § 3.05.03)
§ 34.004 MANAGEMENT OF PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   (A)   The Director shall manage municipal water, lighting, heating, power,
garbage and other undertakings of the city, and parks, baths, playgrounds,
market houses, cemeteries, crematories, sewage disposal plants and farms, and
shall make and preserve surveys, maps, plans, drawings and estimates. He or she
shall supervise the construction and have charge of the maintenance of public
buildings and other property of the city not otherwise provided for in Title
VII. He or she shall have the management of all other matters provided by the
legislative authority of the city in connection with the public service
thereof.
   (B)   Such Director shall keep a record of his or her proceedings, a copy of
which, certified by him or her, shall be competent evidence in all courts.
(R.C. § 735.02) (Prior Code, § 3.05.04)
Statutory reference:
   Duties in respect to road building, see R.C. §§ 701.01 to 723.53, inclusive
   Duties in respect to waterworks, see R.C. §§ 743.01 to 743.24, inclusive
   Specific powers and duties, see R.C. §§ 735.04 to 735.26, inclusive
§ 34.005 GENERAL DUTIES OF POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS.
   (A)   The police force of a municipal corporation shall preserve the peace,
protect persons and property and obey and enforce all ordinances of the
legislative authority of the municipal corporation, all criminal laws of the
state and the United States, all court orders issued and consent agreements
approved pursuant to R.C. §§ 2919.26 and 3113.31, all protection orders issued
pursuant to R.C. §§ 2903.213 or 2903.214 and protection orders issued by courts
of another state, as defined in R.C. § 2919.27. The Fire Department shall
protect the lives and property of the people in case of fire. Both the Police
and Fire Departments shall perform any other duties that are provided by
ordinance. The Police and Fire Departments in every city shall be maintained
under the civil service system.
   (B)   A chief or officer of a police force of a municipal corporation may
participate, as the director of an organized crime task force established under
R.C. § 177.02 or as a member of the investigatory staff of such a task force,
in an investigation of organized criminal activity in any county or counties in
this state under R.C. §§ 177.01 to 177.03.
(R.C. § 737.11) (Prior Code, § 3.05.05)
§ 34.006 POWERS OF CHIEF OF POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS AS TO SUSPENSIONS.
   Except as provided in R.C. § 737.052, the Chief of Police and the Chief of
the Fire Department have the exclusive right to suspend any of the deputies,
officers or employees in their respective departments and under their
management and control, for incompetence, gross neglect of duty, gross
immorality, habitual drunkenness, failure to obey orders given them by the
proper authority or for any other reasonable and just cause.
(R.C. § 737.12) (Prior Code, § 3.05.06)
§ 34.007 REDUCTION AND DISMISSAL; POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS.
   If an employee is suspended under this section, the Chief of Police or the
Chief of the Fire Department, as the case may be, shall forthwith certify that
fact in writing, together with the cause for the suspension, to the Director of
Public Safety, who, within five days from the receipt of that certification,
shall proceed to inquire into the cause of the suspension and render judgment
on it. If the charge is sustained, the judgment may be for the person’s
suspension, reduction in rank or dismissal from the department. The judgment
shall be final except as otherwise provided by law. The director, in any
investigation of charges against a member of the Police or Fire Department,
shall have the same powers to administer oaths and to secure the attendance of
witnesses and the production of books and papers that are conferred upon the
Mayor.
(R.C. § 737.12) (Prior Code, § 3.05.07)
§ 34.008 CLASSIFICATION OF SERVICE; RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Director of Public Safety of a city shall classify the service in the
Police and Fire Departments in conformity with the ordinance of the legislative
authority thereof determining the number of persons to be employed in the
departments, and shall make all rules for the regulation and discipline of such
departments, except as otherwise provided by law.
(R.C. § 737.13) (Prior Code, § 3.05.08)
§ 34.009 RELIEF OF MEMBERS OF POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   The legislative authority of a municipal corporation may provide by general
ordinance for the relief, out of the police or fire funds, of members of either
department temporarily or permanently disabled in the discharge of their duty.
This section does not impair, restrict or repeal any law authorizing the levy
of taxes in municipal corporations to provide for firefighters, police and
sanitary police pension funds, and to create and perpetuate Boards of Trustees
for the administration of such funds.
(R.C. § 737.14) (Prior Code, § 3.05.09)
Statutory reference:
   Other fire and police regulations and requirements, see R.C. §§ 737.21 to
737.32, inclusive
§ 34.010 CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   There shall be provided for every newly appointed police officer and
firefighter a clothing and equipment allowance in the sum as set by City
Council and, each year thereafter, there shall be provided clothing or
equipment as may be needed for each police officer and firefighter, in a sum as
set by City Council.
   (B)   The following employees shall receive a $30 per month allowance for
personal cell phone usage for city business: Police Chief, Fire Chief, Service
Director, Water Plant Operator, Wastewater Treatment Plant Operator and Code
Officer.
(Prior Code, § 3.05.10) (Ord. 83-20, passed 11-23-2020)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 34.025 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Chief of Police shall have exclusive control of the stationing and
transfer of all patrolmen, auxiliary police officers and other officers and
employees in the Police Department, and police auxiliary unit, under such
general rules and regulations as the director of public safety prescribes.
(R.C. § 737.06) (Prior Code, § 3.05.11)
Statutory reference:
   Subject to competitive classified service, see R.C. § 143.08
§ 34.026 PUBLIC SERVICE SUPERVISION BY CITY MANAGER.
   (A)   The Police Department of each city shall be composed of a Chief of
Police and such other officers, patrol officers and employees as the
legislative authority thereof provides by ordinance.
   (B)   (1)   The Director of Public Safety of such city shall have the
exclusive management and control of all other officers, surgeons, secretaries,
clerks and employees in the Police Department as provided by ordinances or
resolution of such legislative authority.
      (2)   He or she may commission private police officer, who may not be in
the classified list of the department, under such rules and regulations as the
legislative authority prescribes.
(R.C. § 737.05) (Prior Code, § 3.05.12)
§ 34.027 AUXILIARY POLICE UNIT.
   (A)   Pursuant to R.C. § 737.051, the City Manager is authorized and
empowered to establish an auxiliary police unit within the Police Department of
the municipality.
   (B)   He or she shall be the executive head of this auxiliary police unit;
shall establish rules and regulations for the organization, training,
administration, control and conduct of the auxiliary police unit; and shall
make all appointments and removals of the auxiliary police officers.
   (C)   The auxiliary police officers shall be furnished a minimum number of
uniform items as determined by the City Manager and the Chief of Police.
Damaged and/or unserviceable uniform items shall be returned to the Chief of
Police for replacement.
(Prior Code, § 3.05.13)
§ 34.028 EMERGENCY PATROL OFFICERS.
   (A)   In case of riot or other like emergency, the Mayor may appoint
additional patrolmen and officers for temporary service in the Police
Department, or additional firefighters and officers for temporary service in
the Fire Department, who need not be in the classified list of such department.
Such additional persons shall be employed only for the time during which the
emergency exists.
   (B)   The Mayor may call upon the Sheriff of the county in which all or part
of the municipal corporation lies or the Sheriff of any adjoining county, the
Mayor or other chief executive of any municipal corporation in the same or any
adjoining county, and the Chairperson of the Board of Township Trustees of any
township in the same or any adjoining county, to furnish such law enforcement
or fire protection personnel, or both, together with appropriate equipment and
apparatus, as may be necessary to preserve the public peace and protect persons
and property in the requesting municipal corporation in the event of riot. Such
aid shall be furnished to the Mayor requesting it, insofar as possible without
withdrawing from the political subdivision furnishing such aid the minimum
police and fire protection appearing necessary under the circumstances. In such
case, law enforcement and fire protection personnel acting outside the
territory of their regular employment shall be considered as performing
services within the territory of their regular employment for purposes of
compensation, pension or indemnity fund rights, workers’ compensation, and
other rights or benefits to which they may be entitled as incidents of their
regular employment. The municipal corporation receiving such aid shall
reimburse the political subdivision furnishing it the cost of furnishing such
aid, including compensation of personnel, expenses incurred by reason of the
injury or death of any such personnel while rendering such aid, expenses of
furnishing equipment and apparatus, compensation for damage to or loss of
equipment or apparatus while in service outside the territory of its regular
use, and such other reasonable expenses as may be incurred by any such
political subdivision in furnishing such aid. Nothing in this section shall be
construed as superseding or modifying in any way any provision of a contract
entered into pursuant to R.C. § 737.04. Law enforcement officers acting
pursuant to this section outside the territory of their regular employment have
the same authority to enforce the law as when acting within the territory of
their regular employment.
(R.C. § 737.10) (Prior Code, § 3.05.14)
§ 34.029 PRIVATE POLICE.
   The Chief of Police, with approval of the City Manager, when good cause
exists, may appoint special patrol officers or night watchpersons for the
protection of private residential or business properties, areas or
establishments, providing such appointee shall receive no compensation from the
municipality and shall have first given bond to the city in the amount of
$1,000. The appointees shall have the powers of patrol officers and, while on
duty, may wear police uniform and insignia and carry arms as the City Manager
may prescribe. The appointment may be rescinded, at any time, by the Chief of
Police or by resolution of City Council.
(Prior Code, § 3.05.15)
§ 34.030 POLICE DEPARTMENT STAFFING; SALARY.
   (A)   The staffing in the Police Department is as follows:
      (1)   One full-time Police Chief;
      (2)   Two full-time Sergeants;
      (3)   One full-time K9 officer;
      (4)   Seven full-time police officers, and
      (5)   One full-time Clerk.
   (B)   The Police Department pay chart shall be as follows:
 
Police Department Pay Scale
               Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4
Chief of Police $76,500 annually
Clerk           $18.21 $18.52 $18.78 N/A
Patrol Officer  $19.88 $20.28 $20.69 $21.10
Sergeant        $22.37 $22.80 $23.22 N/A
 
(Ord. 108-20, passed 12-29-2020; Ord. 78-21, passed 9-27-2021; Ord. 24-22,
passed 3-14-2022; Ord. 51- 22, passed 6-27-2022; Ord. 07-23, passed 2-13-2023;
Ord. 24-23, passed 5-22-2023; Ord. 25-23, passed 5-22-2023; Ord. 40-23, passed
8-14-2023)
§ 34.031 CIVIL SERVICE AND PUBLIC EMPLOYEES’ RETIREMENT.
   The Police Department shall be maintained under the civil service and public
employees’ retirement systems and appointments shall conform therewith.
(Prior Code, § 3.05.21)
Statutory reference:
   Required by R.C. § 737.11
   Related provisions, see R.C. §§ 145.01 to 145.57 and 145.99
§ 34.032 PENSION PICK-UP FOR POLICE DEPARTMENT EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Effective July 1, 2015, the City Council has determined to continue to
pick-up 2% of the 12.25% mandatory contributions by the Police Department
employees who are members of the State Police and Fire Pension Fund by paying
the contributions on behalf of the employees, with the employee paying 10.25%
of the mandatory employee contributions through salary reduction. Said picked
up contributions paid by the employer and through salary reduction, even though
designated as employee contributions for state law purposes, are being paid by
the city in lieu of said contributions by the employee. Said picked up
contributions will not be included in the gross income of the employees for tax
reporting purposes, that is, for federal or state income tax withholding taxes,
until distributed from the State Police and Fire Pension Fund. Said employees
shall not be entitled to any option of choosing to receive the contributed
amounts directly instead of having them paid by the city to the State Police
and Fire Pension Fund.
(Res. 2175, passed 12-14-2015)
HANDLING OF PROPERTY
§ 34.045 PROPERTY RECOVERED BY POLICE.
   (A)   Stolen or other property recovered by members of the police force
shall be deposited and kept in a place designated by the Mayor. Each article
shall be entered in a book kept for that purpose, with the name of the owner,
if ascertained; the person from whom taken; the place where found with general
circumstances; the date of its receipt; and the name of the officer recovering
it.
   (B)   An inventory of all money or other property shall be given to the
party from whom taken, and, in case it is not claimed by some person within 30
days after arrest and seizure, it shall be delivered to the person from whom
taken, and to no other person, either attorney, agent, factor or clerk, except
by special order of the Mayor.
(R.C. § 737.29) (Prior Code, § 3.05.16)
Cross-reference:
   Disposition of unclaimed or forfeited property held by Police Department;
regulations, see §
130.17
§ 34.046 POLICE DEPARTMENT CLERK/SECRETARY.
   (A)   The city hereby creates the full-time position of Police Department
Clerk/Secretary.
   (B)   The Police Chief shall be the immediate supervisor of this position.
(Ord. 66-20, passed 8-24-2020; Ord. 78-21, passed 9-27-2021; Ord. 24-22, passed
3-14-2022)
§ 34.047 DEPOSIT OF STOLEN PROPERTY; PROHIBITION.
   (A)   No officer, patrol officer or other member of the police force shall
neglect or refuse to deposit property taken or found by him or her in
possession of a person arrested.
   (B)   Any conviction for a violation of this section shall be liable for a
fine enumerated in §
34.999.
(R.C. § 737.30) (Prior Code, § 3.05.17) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.048 DISPOSITION TO CLAIMANT.
   (A)   If, within 30 days, the money or property recovered under §
34.045 is claimed by any person other than the person from whom the property
was recovered from, it shall be retained by the custodian thereof until after
the discharge or conviction of the person from whom it was taken, and so long
as it may be required as evidence in any case in court.
   (B)   If the claimant establishes to the satisfaction of the court that he
or she is the rightful owner, it shall be restored to him or her; otherwise, it
shall be returned to the accused person, personally, and not to any attorney,
agent, factor or clerk of the accused person, except upon special order of the
Mayor after all liens and claims in favor of the municipality have first been
discharged and satisfied.
(R.C. § 737.31) (Prior Code, § 3.05.18)
Cross-reference:
   Disposition of unclaimed or forfeited property held by Police Department;
regulations, see §
130.17
§ 34.049 SALE OF UNCLAIMED PROPERTY; DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section and unless the property
involved is required to be disposed of pursuant to another section of the Ohio
Revised Code, property that is unclaimed for 90 days or more shall be sold by
the Marshal, Police Chief or licensed auctioneer at public auction, after
notice of the sale has been provided by publication once a week for three
successive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in the county or as
provided in R.C. § 7.16.
   (B)   The proceeds of the sale shall be paid to the Treasurer and shall be
credited to the General Fund of the municipality.
(R.C. § 737.32) (Prior Code, § 3.05.19)
§ 34.050 SALE OF UNCLAIMED PROPERTY; EXPENSES TO BE PAID.
   If authorized to do so by an ordinance adopted by the legislative authority
of the municipality and if the property involved is not required to be disposed
of pursuant to another section of the Ohio Revised Code, the Police Chief or
Marshal may contribute property that is unclaimed for 90 days or more to one or
more public agencies, to one or more nonprofit organizations no part of the net
income of which inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual
and no substantial part of the activities of which consists of carrying on
propaganda or otherwise attempting to influence legislation or to one or more
organizations satisfying I.R.C. § 501(c)(3) or (c)(19).
(R.C. § 737.32) (Prior Code, § 3.05.20)
Cross-reference:
   Disposition of unclaimed or forfeited property held by Police Department;
regulations, see §
130.17
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 34.065 CHIEF OF FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall have exclusive control of the
stationing and transferring of all firefighters and other officers and
employees in the department, under such general rules and regulations as the
City Manager prescribes.
(Prior Code, § 3.05.22)
§ 34.066 FIRE DEPARTMENT REGULATIONS.
   The legislative authority may establish all necessary regulations to guard
against the occurrence of fires and protect the property and lives of its
citizens against damage and accidents resulting therefrom, and for that purpose
may establish and maintain a Fire Department, provide for the establishment and
organization of fire engine and hose companies and rescue units, establish the
hours of labor of the members of its Fire Department who shall not be required
to be on duty continuously more than six days in every seven and provide bylaws
and regulation for the government of companies and their members as is
necessary and proper.
(R.C. § 737.21) (Prior Code, § 3.05.23)
Cross-reference:
   Driving over fire hose, see §
72.137
   False alarms, see §
132.08
§ 34.067 FIREFIGHTERS EXEMPT FROM CERTAIN PUBLIC SERVICE.
   The content of this section was repealed, as section of the Ohio Revised
Code that the original statue cites as the authority for this section itself
was repealed. This section has been retained for reference.
(Prior Code, § 3.05.24)
§ 34.068 REGULATION OF ERECTION OF HOUSES AND BUSINESS STRUCTURES; REMOVAL.
   The legislative authority may regulate the erection of houses and business
structures and prohibit the erection of buildings within such limits as it
deems proper, unless the outer walls are constructed of noncombustible
material, and, on the petition of the owners of not less than two-thirds of the
ground included in any square or half-square, may prohibit the erection thereon
of any building, or addition to any building more than ten feet high, unless
the outer walls are made of iron, stone, brick and mortar, or of some of them,
and may provide for the removal of any building or additions erected in
violation of the prohibition.
(R.C. § 737.28) (Prior Code, § 3.05.25)
§ 34.069 INVESTIGATION OF FIRES.
   The legislative authority may invest any officer of the Fire or Police
Department with the power, and impose on him or her the duty, to be present at
all fires, investigate the cause thereof, examine witnesses, compel the
attendance of witnesses and the production of books and papers and to do and
perform all other acts necessary to the effective discharge of such duties.
(R.C. § 737.27) (Prior Code, § 3.05.26)
§ 34.070 POWER TO MAKE ARRESTS.
   The officer may administer oaths, make arrests and enter for the purpose of
examination any building which, in his or her opinion, is in danger from fire.
The officer shall report his or her proceedings to the legislative authority at
such times as are required.
(R.C. § 737.27) (Prior Code, § 3.05.27)
§ 34.071 SCHOOLING OF OFFICERS AND FIREFIGHTERS.
   The legislative authority may send any of the officers and firefighters of
its Fire Department to schools of instruction designed to promote the
efficiency of firefighters, and, if authorized in advance, may pay their
necessary expenses from the funds used for the maintenance and operation of the
Fire Department.
(R.C. § 737.23) (Prior Code, § 3.05.28)
§ 34.072 RECORD OF FIRES.
   The Fire Chief shall keep, in convenient form, a complete record of all
fires. Such record shall include the time of the alarm; location of fire; cause
of fire, if known; type of building; name of owner and tenant; purpose for
which occupied; value of building and contents; members of the Department
responding to the alarm; and such other information as he or she may deem
advisable or as may be required, from time to time, by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 3.05.29)
§ 34.073 PRACTICE DRILLS.
   The Fire Chief shall hold a monthly practice drill of at least one hour’s
duration for the Fire Department, when the weather permits, and give the
firefighter instructions in approved methods of fire fighting and fire
prevention.
(Prior Code, § 3.05.30)
§ 34.074 CIVIL SERVICE SYSTEM APPLICABLE.
   The Fire Department shall be maintained under the civil service system and
appointments shall conform therewith.
(Prior Code, § 3.05.31)
Statutory reference:
   Required by R.C. § 737.11
§ 34.075 FIRE DEPARTMENT AUTHORIZED TO EXTEND ITS SERVICES OR THE USE OF ITS
EQUIPMENT TO OTHER SUBDIVISIONS OF THE STATE.
   The Chief of the Fire Department or any person or persons specifically
designated by the Chief of the Fire Department is authorized to provide for the
response of the Fire Department to emergency fire calls outside the corporate
limits of this city.
(Prior Code, § 3.05.32)
§ 34.076 EMERGENCY FIREFIGHTERS.
   The Chief of Fire shall have exclusive control of the stationing and
transferring of all firefighters and other officers and employees in the
Department, under such general rules and regulations as the Director of Public
Safety prescribes.
(R.C. § 737.09) (Prior Code, § 3.05.33)
§ 34.077 FIRE DEPARTMENT STAFFING; SALARY.
   (A)   The Fire Department staffing is amended to the following:
      (1)   One full-time Chief;
      (2)   One full-time Lieutenant;
      (3)   One full-time senior firefighter;
      (4)   One full-time firefighter; and
      (5)   Thirteen part-time firefighters.
   (B)   The Fire Department pay chart shall be as follows:
 
Fire Department Pay Scale
                  Step 1 Step 2 Step 3
Fire Chief         $69,071.60 Annually
FT Firefighter     $14.14 $14.50 $14.88
Lieutenant         $15.89 $16.20 $16.49
PT Firefighter     $11.25 per hour
Senior Firefighter $14.25 $14.63 $14.99
 
(Ord. 56-20, passed 7-27-2020; Ord. 24-22, passed 3-14-2022; Ord. 30-22, passed
3-28-2022; Ord. 07-23, passed 2-13-2023; Ord. 22-23, passed 5-8-2023; Ord. 24-
23, passed 5-22-2023; Ord. 25-23, passed 5-22- 2023; Ord. 40-23, passed 8-14-
2023)
§ 34.078 FIRE CHIEF AUTHORIZED TO CHANGE THE HOURS OF WORK.
   The Fire Chief is given the authority to change the hours of work in the
Fire Department from hourly shifts to a platoon system as soon as he or she
obtains consent from the labor union and manning requirements can be met.
(Ord. 39-17, passed 7-31-2017)
§ 34.079 MITIGATION RATES FOR THE DEPLOYMENT OF EMERGENCY AND NON-EMERGENCY
SERVICES BY THE FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The city shall initiate mitigation rates for the delivery of emergency
and non-emergency services by the Fire Department for personnel, supplies and
equipment to the scene of emergency and non-emergency incidents, as listed in
“Exhibit A” to Ordinance 10-16 incorporated herein. The mitigation rates shall
be based on actual costs of the services and that which is usual, customary and
reasonable (UCR) as shown in “Exhibit A” to Ordinance 10-16 incorporated
herein, which may include any services, personnel, supplies and equipment and
with baselines established by addendum to this document.
   (B)   A claim shall be filed to the responsible party(s) through their
insurance carrier. All funds received by the city from Fire Recovery USA shall
be deposited in Fire Department Fund 100-200.
   (C)   The City Council may make rules or regulations and, from time to time,
may amend, revoke or add rules and regulations, inconsistent with this section,
as they may deem necessary or expedient in respect to billing for these
mitigation rates or the collection thereof.
   (D)   It is found and determined that all formal actions of this City
Council concerning and relating to the adoption of this section were adopted in
open meetings of this City Council, and that all deliberations of this City
Council and any of its committees that resulted in such formal actions were in
accordance with all legal requirements, and the codified ordinances of the City
Council.
   (E)   The City Manager is hereby authorized to execute a contract with Fire
Recovery USA for the services outlined in this section.
(Ord. 10-16, passed 3-14-2016)
§ 34.080 PENSION PICK-UP FOR FIRE DEPARTMENT EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Effective July 1, 2015, the City Council has determined to continue to
pick-up 2% of the 12.25% mandatory contributions by the Fire Department
employees who are members of the State Police and Fire Pension Fund by paying
the contributions on behalf of the employees, with the employee paying 10.25%
of the mandatory employee contributions through salary reduction.
   (B)   Said picked up contributions paid by the employer and through salary
reduction, even though designated as employee contributions for state law
purposes, are being paid by the city in lieu of said contributions by the
employee.
   (C)   Said picked up contributions will not be included in the gross income
of the employees for tax reporting purposes, that is, for federal or state
income tax withholding taxes, until distributed form the State Police and Fire
Pension Fund.
   (D)   Said employees shall not be entitled to any option of choosing to
receive the contributed amounts directly instead of having them paid by the
city to the State Police and Fire Pension Fund.
(Res. 2174, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 34.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person so convicted of violating §
34.047, upon conviction thereof, shall be liable for a fine of up to $1,000.
(R.C. § 737.30) (Prior Code, § 3.05.17)
CHAPTER 35: POLICIES
Section
   
35.01   Fuel use and procedure policy
   
35.02   Adoption of the investment policy
   
35.03   Water district water loss abatement policy
   
35.04   Solid waste management plan
   
35.05   Anti-displacement and relocation assistance plan
   
35.06   Bounced fee policy
   
35.07   Restitution policy
   
35.08   Public records request policy
Cross-reference:
   Ethics, conflicts of interest, code of conduct, and transparency policies
for city officials, see §
32.22
§ 35.01 FUEL USE AND PROCEDURE POLICY.
   Effective April 12, 2021, the city adopts the following fuel use policy and
use procedure.
   (A)   Fuel policy and procedure policy. This policy is to establish rules
for the use of bulk fuel allocated to the City Utility Department fleet.
   (B)   Procedure. Fuel is issued by the city preferred supplier and all
purchased fuel is recorded and tracked. There is a sign out sheet at the tanks
to record vehicle i.d., milage, fuel used, pump readings before and after and
driver name. This information aids in monitoring the costs and efficiency of
vehicle fleet operation. For reasons of accurate recording of costs and usage
and overall control and management of the fleet, bulk fuel is the preferred
method of fuel for the utility fleet and at no time with or without permission
is it to be used for personal use. If used for personal use, this is considered
theft and can result in termination of employment.
(Ord. 30-21, passed 4-12-2021)
§ 35.02 ADOPTION OF THE INVESTMENT POLICY.
   The City Council hereby adopts the investment policy attached hereto and
incorporated herein by reference and designates the City Investment Committee
to make investments of city funds in accordance with said investment policy.
(Ord. 36-16, passed 8-22-2016)
§ 35.03 WATER DISTRICT WATER LOSS ABATEMENT POLICY.
   (A)   The city adopts the following water district loss abatement policy and
hereby repeals any other water adjustment abatement policy.
   (B)   The City Manager, at his or her discretion, may adjust water bills.
 
   City Water District Water Loss Abatement Policy
The city water district water loss abatement policy allows customers in good
standing (i.e., current on all bills and charges), who have enrolled and paid the
annual fee, to receive credit on their water bills of up to $500 maximum per year,
per customer, for water loss due to leaks which occur on their sides of the meter.
The annual fee of $30 per account is due in the office before policy can begin. The
abatement policy will be in effect for a water loss due to such a leak occurring
during the following 12 months.
This policy applies only to the account holder (the name on the account) of a
residential five-eighths inch to one inch meter set.
New customers have the opportunity to sign up for the policy at a pro-rated rate
and coverage. New owner/tenants will be pro-rated to calculate the fee required and
the maximum coverage. The fees are non-transferable and no refunds will be
generated upon finalizing an account.
Landowners may sign-up for the abatement policy for rental properties. The coverage
would be for each water tap and would follow the same requirements and policies.
All costs for repairs remain the responsibility of the owner/account holder.
The customer is required to notify the water office when a water leak is discovered
and when repairs are completed. This will ensure that the correct timeframe is
being used to calculate the loss. Once the city verifies the occurrence, the
customer is required to pay his or her “average” usage for that month, which is
held in the computer based on the last 12 months, or as many as are on file, if
fewer than 12 exist. The balance of the bill would be credited, not exceeding the
$500 yearly maximum. After the maximum amount is reached, the customer is
responsible for any additional costs, or water leaks for the remainder of the year.
Credits cannot be used to cover the cost of filling a pool, as this is not a leak.
The district retains the right to require proof of repairs such as receipts.
 
(Ord. 37-20, passed 6-22-2020)
§ 35.04 SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   (A)   The city approves the district solid waste management plan.
   (B)   The Clerk is hereby directed to send the District a copy of the
ordinance incorporated herein via mail to the attention of the District
Coordinator, Athens-Hocking Solid Waste District, P.O. Box 693, Athens, Ohio
45701.
(Ord. 32-18, passed 6-25-2018)
§ 35.05 ANTI-DISPLACEMENT AND RELOCATION ASSISTANCE PLAN.
   (A)   An anti-displacement and relocation assistance plan, in the form
attached hereto as Exhibit “A” to Ordinance 38-15 and incorporated herein by
reference, is hereby adopted.
   (B)   The City Manager is hereby authorized to sign said plan on behalf of
the city.
(Ord. 38-15, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 35.06 BOUNCED FEE POLICY.
   (A)   Council hereby authorizes and directs the City Auditor to charge a fee
of $30 to any individual and/or customer who issues a bad check to the city
and/or who pays on a credit card with insufficient funds.
   (B)   Any individual or customer who causes three bounced payments to be
subject to a 24-month period during which that customer may only pay in cash,
money order or cashier’s check after which they may resume paying via check
and/or credit card.
(Ord. 17-23, passed 4-24-2023)
§ 35.07 RESTITUTION POLICY.
   This section hereby establishes guidelines and policy for restitution
collecting practices in reference to any outstanding debts, fees, fines, costs,
or monetary obligations owed to the City of Nelsonville as a result of actions
or infractions of public servants or officials that have led to financial
liability, as set forth in Exhibit A attached to Ordinance 59-23, passed 10-23-
2023, which is incorporated by reference as if fully rewritten herein.
(Ord. 59-23, passed 10-23-2023)
§ 35.08 PUBLIC RECORDS REQUEST POLICY.
   This section hereby establishes a Public Records Request Policy, as set
forth in Exhibit A attached to Ordinance 60-23, passed 10-23-2023, which is
incorporated by reference as if fully rewritten herein.
(Ord. 60-23, passed 10-23-2023)
CHAPTER 36: FINANCES AND TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
36.01   Designation of depositories for active monies for deposit in public
depositories; guidelines for unclaimed funds and outstanding bills
   
36.02   Admission tax
   
36.03   Adoption of R.C. Income Tax Code
   
36.04   Income tax distribution
Income Taxation
   
36.15   Purpose
   
36.16   Definitions
   
36.17   Imposition of tax
   
36.18   Effective period of tax
   
36.19   Mandatory registration
   
36.20   Mandatory filing
   
36.21   Return and payment of tax
   
36.22   Collection at source
   
36.23   Declarations
   
36.24   Duties of the City Auditor
   
36.25   Investigative powers of the City Auditor; penalty for divulging
confidential information
   
36.26   Interest and penalties
   
36.27   Collection of unpaid taxes and refunds of overpayment
   
36.28   Violations; penalties
   
36.29   Board of review
   
36.30   Allocation of funds
   
36.31   Collection of tax after termination of ordinance
Lodging Excise Tax
   
36.45   Definitions
   
36.46   Application of lodging tax
   
36.47   Exemptions
   
36.48   Prohibition against false evidence of tax-exempt status
   
36.49   Tax to be separately stated and charged
   
36.50   Registration
   
36.51   Reporting and permitting
   
36.52   Delinquency penalty and interest
   
36.53   Records, inspection, destruction, auditing procedures
   
36.54   Unlawful to prohibit inspection
   
36.55   Failure to collect and report tax; determination of tax by City Auditor
   
36.56   Appeal
   
36.57   Actions to collect
   
36.58   Violations
   
36.59   Refunds
   
36.60   Money received, where credited
   
36.61   Additional rules and regulations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.01 DESIGNATION OF DEPOSITORIES FOR ACTIVE MONIES FOR DEPOSIT IN PUBLIC
DEPOSITORIES; GUIDELINES FOR UNCLAIMED FUNDS AND OUTSTANDING BILLS.
   The active deposits of public monies of the city are hereby awarded in
accordance with R.C. § 135.04(G) as follows:
   (A)   First $25,000 to Peoples Bank of Nelsonville, Ohio on the basis of
operating needs of the city; and
   (B)   The balance of active money may be deposited in any of the following
banks: Peoples Bank of Nelsonville, Ohio; Nelsonville Home and Saving Bank; and
Park National, based upon criteria established by the City Treasurer, but shall
not exceed the amount specified in each bank’s application.
   (C)   (1)   In conjunction with R.C. § 169, monies due from the city and
check that have expired shall be placed in the Fund #110, the Unclaimed Monies
Fund, and shall remain there according to law and R.C. § 169. If nobody has
claimed said funds after the holding period, then shall be transferred to Fund
#100, the General Fund in accordance with Exhibit A attached to the ordinance
codified herein.
      (2)   The City Auditor shall have the authority to follow the guidelines
an policy described in division (C)(1) above and attached to the original
ordinance codified herein as Exhibit A, unless such guidelines, in whole or in
part, are not specifically authorized under R.C. § 169.
   (D)   The City Manager and City Auditor shall have the authority to enter
into negotiations on outstanding bills.
(Res. 2240, passed 2-22-2021; Ord. 92-21, passed 11-22-2021; Ord. 04-22, passed
2-14-2022)
§ 36.02 ADMISSION TAX.
   Effective June 1, 2018, City Code Title 39, Admission Tax, is hereby adopted
with an admission tax of 5%.
(Ord. 08-18, passed 2-26-2018)
§ 36.03 ADOPTION OF R.C. INCOME TAX CODE.
   (A)   Effective February 24, 2018, the income tax code is modified in
accordance with Exhibit A, attached hereto Ordinance 12-18 and incorporated
herein by reference, for tax years starting on or after January 1,2018. The
City Council hereby expressly finds and determines that it does not concede the
legality of H.B. 49's municipal income tax provisions; 49 H.B. § 803.100; R.C.
§ 718.04(A); or any other law that is the subject of the action pending in case
number 2017 CV 10258 in the Franklin County Court of Common Pleas, and that the
city reserves its rights to continue its participation in and prosecution of
said litigation, and any other litigation challenging the state’s authority to
dictate municipal tax collection and administration, and that adoption of this
section shall not prejudice the claims of the city therein.
(Ord. 12-18, passed 2-26-2018)
§ 36.04 INCOME TAX DISTRIBUTION.
   (A)   Effective January 1, 2020 through December 31, 2020, the income tax
distribution shall be 95% to General Fund and 5% to Capital Improvement Fund.
On January 1, 2021, the income tax distribution shall be 85% to General Fund
and 15% to Capital Improvement Fund. This section supersedes all previous
ordinances setting the income tax distribution.
   (B)   The income tax mix change of 95% to General Fund and 5% to the Capital
Improvements Fund is extended to March 31, 2021.
   (C)   Effective April 1, 2021, the income tax shall be divided 90% to the
General Fund and 10% to the Capital Improvements Fund. Effective October 1,
2021, the income tax shall be divided 88% to the General Fund, 10% to the
Capital Improvements Fund and 2% to the Recreation Fund.
(Ord. 83-19, passed 12-16-2019; Ord. 98-20, passed 12-29-2020; Ord. 19-21,
passed 3-22-2021; Ord. 55- 21, passed 8-9-2021)
INCOME TAXATION
§ 36.15 PURPOSE.
   To provide funds for municipal purposes, there shall be, and is hereby,
levied a tax on gross salaries, gross wages, commissions, net gambling and
lottery winnings of $1,000 or more, tips, severance packages, rental income and
other compensation, and on net profits and other taxable income as hereinafter
provided. 401K and deferred compensation are not deducted under gross salaries
or gross wages.
(Prior Code, § 15.01.01)
§ 36.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The
singular shall include the plural, and the masculine shall include the feminine
and the neuter, and all periods set forth shall be inclusive of first and last
mentioned dates.
   ASSOCIATION. A partnership, limited partnership or any other form of
unincorporated enterprise, owned by two or more persons.
   BOARD OF REVIEW. The board created by and constituted as provided in §
36.29.
   BUSINESS. An enterprise, activity, profession or undertaking of any nature
conducted for profit or ordinarily conducted for profit, whether by an
individual, partnership, association, corporation or any other entity. It is
intended hereby to specifically include the renting or leasing of property –
real, personal or mixed.
   CITY AUDITOR. The City Auditor, or his or her duly appointed agent,
functioning under the jurisdiction of the City Auditor at all times.
   CORPORATION. A corporation or joint stock association organized under the
laws of the United States, the state or any other state, territory, foreign
country or dependency.
   EMPLOYEE. One who works for wages, salary, commission or other types of
compensation in the service of an employer.
   EMPLOYER. An individual, partnership, association, corporation, governmental
body, unit or agency, or any other entity, whether or not organized for profit,
who or that employs one or more persons on a salary, wage commission or other
compensation basis.
   FISCAL YEAR. An accounting period of 12 months or less ending on any day
other than December 31.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. The total income of taxpayers from whatever source derived.
   NET PROFIT. The net gain from the operation of a business, profession or
enterprise or other activity, whether or not such business, profession
enterprise or other activity is conducted for profit or is ordinarily conducted
for profit, after provision for all ordinary and necessary expenses, either
paid or accrued in accordance with the accounting system used by the taxpayer
for federal income tax purposes without deductions of taxes imposed by this
subchapter, federal states or other tax based on income; and in the case of an
association, without deduction of salaries paid partners, and other owners; and
otherwise adjusted to the requirements of this subchapter.
   NONRESIDENT. An individual who is not domiciled in the city.
   NONRESIDENT UNINCORPORATED BUSINESS ENTITY. An unincorporated business
entity not having an office or place of business within the city.
   OTHER ENTITY. Any person or unincorporated body not previously named.
   PERSON. Every natural person, partnership, fiduciary, association or
corporation or other entity. Wherever used in any clause prescribing and
imposing a penalty, the term PERSON, as applied to any association, shall
include the partners or members thereof, and as applied to corporations, the
officers thereof.
   PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any bona fide office other than a mere statutory office,
factory, warehouse or other space which is occupied and used by the taxpayer in
carrying on any business activity individually or through one or more of his
regular employees regularly in attendance.
   RESIDENT. An individual domiciled in the city.
   TAXABLE INCOME. Gross wages, gross salaries and other compensation paid by
an employer or employers before any deduction, commissions, net gambling and
lottery winnings of $1,000 or more, tips, severance packages, rental income
derived within the city and other income defined by statute as taxable, and/or
net profit from the operation of a business, profession or other enterprise or
activity adjusted in accordance with the provisions of the subchapter.
   TAXABLE YEAR. The calendar year, or fiscal year, upon the basis of which net
profits are to be computed under this subchapter and, in the case of a return
for a fractional part of the year, the period for which such return is required
to be made.
   TAXPAYER. A person, whether an individual, association, corporation or other
entity, required hereunder to file a return or pay a tax.
(Prior Code, § 15.01.02)
§ 36.17 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   Subject to the provisions of §
36.31, an annual tax for the purposes specified in §
36.15 hereof shall be imposed on and after January 1, 2003 at the rate of 1.75%
per annum, upon the following:
   (A)   Resident employee.
      (1)   The following are items which are subject to the tax imposed by
this subchapter: on all salaries, wages, commissions, gambling and lottery
winnings of $1,000 or more, 401K, deferred compensation, tips, severance
packages, rental income and other compensation earned by residents of the city:
         (a)   Amounts received from an employer for expenses and uses as such
by the individual receiving them are not deemed to be compensation if the
employer deducts such expenses or advances as such from his or her gross income
for the purpose of determining his or her net profits taxable under federal
law, and the employee is not required to include such receipts as income on his
or her federal income tax return;
         (b)   Fees, unless such fees are properly includable as part of the
net profits of a trade, business, profession or enterprise regularly carried on
by an unincorporated entity owned or partly owned by an individual;
         (c)   Other compensation, including bonuses, and including
compensation paid to domestic servants, casual employees and other types of
employees; and
         (d)   Payments made to employees by an employer as vacation wages are
taxable. Payments made to an employee by an employer under a way continuation
plan during periods of disability, third-party sick pay or sickness, are
taxable.
      (2)   On the portion attributable to the city of the net profits earned
by all resident unincorporated business, pass through entities, professions or
other activities derived from work done or services performed or rendered, and
business or other activities conducted in the city. On the portion of the
distributive share of the net profits of a resident partner or owner of a
resident unincorporated business entity not attributable to the city and not
levied against such unincorporated business entity. On the portion of the
distributive share of the net profits earned by a resident owner of a resident
unincorporated business entity not attributable to the city and not levied
against such unincorporated business entity or pass-through entity.
      (3)   On the portion attributable to the city on the net profits by all
nonresident unincorporated businesses, professions or other activities, derived
from work done or services performed or rendered and business or other
activities conducted in the city. On the portion of the distributive share of
the net profits earned by a nonresident unincorporated business entity not
attributable to the city and not levied against such unincorporated business
entity or pass-through entity.
      (4)   On the portion attributable to the city of the net profits earned
by all corporations that are not pass-through entities from work done or
services performed or rendered and business or other activities conducted in
the city, whether or not such corporations have an office or place of business
in the city.
      (5)   (a)   However, the net amount upon which the tax due is to be
calculated may not be less than zero.
         (b)   One example would be the case of combining employee wages earned
with rental or business income loss. In this example, the rental or business
loss could not be an amount less than zero for tax computation purposes.
   (B)   Nonresident employee. In the case of individuals who are not residents
of the city there is imposed tax of 1.75% on all salaries, wages, commissions,
401K, deferred compensation, tips, severance packages or rental income derived
from within the city, and other compensation earned by nonresidents for work
done, or services performed or rendered, in the city. The location of the place
from which payment is made is immaterial.
   (C)   Businesses both in and outside the city boundaries. Where a person
conducts a business both within and outside the city the portion of the entire
net profits of such business to be allocated as having been made within the
city may be determined from the records of such business, if such business has
bona fide records which disclose with reasonable accuracy what portion of its
net profits is attributable to that part of its activities conducted within the
city or at the option of the taxpayer has no bona fide records showing net
profits from business activities within the city:
      (1)   Multiply the entire net profits of the business by a business
allocation percentage to be determined by:
         (a)   Ascertaining the percentage which the average value net book
value of the real and tangible personal property owned or used in the business
and situated within the city, during the period covered by the return is of the
average net book value of all the real and tangible personal property owned or
used in the business, wherever situated during such period;
         (b)   Ascertaining the percentage which gross receipts of the business
from sales made and services performed in the city during the period covered by
the return, are of the total gross receipts from all sales and services,
wherever made or performed, during such period;
         (c)   Ascertaining the percentage which the total wages, salaries,
commissions and other compensation paid, during the period covered by the
return, to employees for services performed in the city is of the total wages,
salaries, commissions and other compensation paid during such period to all
employees within and outside the city; and
         (d)   Adding together the percentages determined in accordance with
divisions (C)(1)(a) and (C)(1)(c) above, or such of the aforesaid percentages
as are applicable to the particular taxpayer and dividing the totals obtained
by the number of percentages uses in deriving such total.
            1.   A factor is applicable even though it may be allocable
entirely in or outside the city.
            2.   Provided, however, that in the event a just and equitable
result cannot be obtained under the formula provided for herein, the City
Auditor, upon application of the taxpayer, shall have the authority to
substitute other factors or methods calculated to effect proper allocation.
Should the taxpayer object to or disagree with the City Auditor’s decision, an
appeal may be filed with the Board of Review, which shall have the power to
adjust, notify or overrule such decision, by the City Auditor.
   (D)   Net operating loss. There shall be no net carry forwards or backwards
allowed.
   (E)   Exemptions. The provisions of this subchapter shall be construed as
levying a tax upon the following:
      (1)   Funds received from local, state or federal governments because of
service in the Armed Forces of the United States by the person rendering such
service, or as a result of another person rendering such service;
      (2)   Poor relief, pensions, unemployment compensation or similar
payments, including disability benefits received from private industry or
local, state or federal governments, or from charitable, religious or
educational;
      (3)   401K and deferred compensation at time of receipt;
      (4)   Jury duty compensation;
      (5)   Alimony received;
      (6)   Dues, contributions and similar payments received by charitable,
religious, educational or literary organizations or labor unions, lodges and
similar organizations;
      (7)   Receipts from casual entertainment, amusements, sports events and
health and welfare activities conducted by a bona fide charitable, religious
and educational organizations and associations;
      (8)   Any association, organization, corporation, club or trust, which is
exempt from federal taxes on income by reason of its charitable, religious,
educational, literary, scientific and the like purposes;
      (9)   Gains from involuntary conversions, cancellation of indebtedness,
interest on federal obligations, items of income taxed by the intangible
personal property laws of the state or specifically exempt from taxation under
said law, and income of a decedent’s estate during the period of administration
(except such income from the operation of a business);
      (10)   Earnings and income of all persons under 18 years of age whether
residents or nonresidents; and
      (11)   Interest and dividends earned.
(Prior Code, § 15.01.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 36.18 EFFECTIVE PERIOD OF TAX.
   Said tax shall be levied, collected and paid with respect to the salaries,
wages, commissions and other compensation and with respect to the net profits
of businesses, professions or other activities earned from January 1, 2003.
(Prior Code, § 15.01.04)
§ 36.19 MANDATORY REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Each new resident of the city shall register with the City Auditor to
become subject to the city income tax within 30 days of residence of the city.
Any person who violates this subchapter shall be subject to a fine of $5 a day
for each and every day they remain in violation, up to a maximum of $100.
   (B)   All employers, contractors or subcontractors who do work in the city
within 30 days of beginning that work shall register with the City Auditor and
shall present him or her a list of all employees. Subcontractors, contractors
or others who may do work for them whose profits, wages or earnings are not
presently subject to withholding of the city income tax. Any person, employer,
contractor or subcontractor who violates this subchapter shall be subject to a
fine of $5 a day for each and every day they remain in violation, up to a
maximum of $300.
(Prior Code, § 15.01.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 36.20 MANDATORY FILING.
   (A)   (1)   All persons residing or doing business within the city shall
file a tax return on a form prescribed by the City Auditor for the collection
of the city income tax. Any resident that does not have income subject to the
city income tax may file an exempt form available from the City Auditor.
      (2)   Any person who fails to make and/or file a return when due shall be
subject to a late filing penalty of $5 per day for each and every day they
remain in violation up to a maximum of $300.
   (B)   In addition to the late filing penalty, any return that remains not
filed more than 60 days after its due date shall be subject to the penalties
provided under §
36.28. The City Auditor shall have the right to waive such penalties for cause.
(Prior Code, § 15.01.06)
§ 36.21 RETURN AND PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   Filing. Each taxpayer, except as herein, shall, whether or not a tax
is due thereon, make and file a final return on or before April 15 of the year
following the effective date of this subchapter, and on or before April 15 of
each year thereafter. When the return is made for a fiscal year or other period
different from the calendar year, the return shall be filed within 105 days
from the end of such fiscal year or period.
   (B)   Returns. The return shall be filed with the City Auditor on a form or
forms furnished by or obtainable upon request from the City Auditor setting
forth:
      (1)   The aggregate amounts of salaries, wages, commissions and other
compensation earned and net profits from business, profession or other
activity, less allowable expenses incurred in the acquisition of such gross
income earned during the preceding year and subject to said tax;
      (2)   The amount of the tax imposed by this subchapter on such earnings
and profits;
      (3)   All amounts may be rounded up or down as customary, to the nearest
whole dollar;
      (4)   Final amounts due for amounts less than $1 need not be remitted;
      (5)   Such other pertinent statements, information, returns or other
information as the City Auditor may require;
      (6)   Trustees of active trusts are required to file returns and pay the
tax on the taxable income thereof;
      (7)   A husband and wife may file a joint return;
      (8)   Where figures of total income, total deductions and net profits are
included, as shown by a federal return, any items of income as are not subject
to city tax and unallowable expenses shall be eliminated in determining net
income subject to city tax;
      (9)   The fact that any taxpayer is not required to file a federal return
does not relieve him or her from filing a city tax return;
      (10)   If a change in federal income tax liability, made by the federal
Internal Revenue Service, or by a judicial decision, results in an additional
amount of tax payable to the city, a report of such change shall be filed by
the taxpayer within three months after receipt of the final notice from the
federal Internal Revenue Service or final court decision; and
      (11)   If a change in federal income tax liability results in a reduction
of taxes owed and paid to the city, a claim for refund shall be filed with the
City Auditor, in writing, within three years.
   (C)   Extensions.
      (1)   The City Auditor may extend the time for filing of the annual
return upon the request of the taxpayer for a period not to exceed six months,
or one month beyond any extension requested of or granted by the Internal
Revenue Service for the filing of the federal income tax return. The City
Auditor may require a tentative return, accompanied by payment of the amount of
tax shown to be due thereon by the date the return is normally due. No penalty
or interest shall be assessed in those cases in which the return is filed and
the final tax paid within the period as extended.
      (2)   Information, returns, W-2s, schedules and statements needed to
support tax returns are to be filed within the time limits set forth for filing
the tax return.
   (D)   Other information.
      (1)   The taxpayer making a return shall, at the time of the filing
thereof, pay to the City Auditor the amount of taxes shown as due thereon;
provided, however, that where any portion of the tax so due shall have been
deducted at the source pursuant to the provisions of §
36.22, so where any portion of said tax shall have been paid by the taxpayer,
pursuant to the provisions of this section, or where an income tax has been
paid to another municipality, 1% tax credit commencing January 1, 2014, for the
2013 taxable year, and a 0.5% tax credit commencing January 1, 2015, for 2014
taxable year, for the amount so paid in accordance with §
36.31, shall be deducted from the amount shown to be due and only the balance,
if any, shall be due and payable at the time of filing said return.
      (2)   A taxpayer who has overpaid the amount of tax to which the city is
entitled under the provisions of this subchapter may have such overpayment
applied against any subsequent liability hereunder or, at his or her election
indicated on the return, such overpayment or part thereof shall be refunded.
         (a)   No refund or credit request amounting to less than $5 will be
processed.
         (b)   All applications for refund shall be made within six months of
the due date of the final return or shall be forever barred there after.
   (E)   Amended returns.
      (1)   Where necessary, an amended return must be filed in order to report
additional income and pay any additional tax due, or claim a refund of tax
overpaid, subject to the requirements and/or limitations contained in §§
36.25 and
36.29. Such amended returns shall be on a form obtainable on request from the
City Auditor. A taxpayer may not change the method of accounting or
apportionment of net profits after the due date for filing the original return.
      (2)   Within three months from the final determination of any federal tax
liability affecting the taxpayer’s city tax liability, the taxpayer shall make
and file an amended city return showing income subject to the city tax based
upon such final determination of federal tax liability, and pay any additional
tax shown due thereon or make claim for refund of any overpayment.
(Prior Code, § 15.01.07)
§ 36.22 COLLECTION AT SOURCE.
   (A)   Each employer within or doing business within the city shall deduct,
at the time of the payment of such salary, wage, commission or other
compensation, the tax of 1.75% of the gross salaries, wages, commissions or
compensation due by the said employer to said employee.
      (1)   If the average monthly payroll deduction of the city income tax is
less than $100 a month, the employer shall, on or before the last day of the
month following the close of each calendar quarter, make a return and pay the
City Auditor the amount of taxes so deducted.
      (2)   If the average monthly payroll deduction of the city income tax is
$100 a month or more, the employer shall be required to file withholding
returns and pay the monthly collections on or before the last day of the month
following the month of collection.
      (3)   The City Auditor may change the filing schedule when the Auditor
deems the change necessary to ensure the proper and timely collection of monies
due to the city.
   (B)   Such employer, in collecting said tax shall be deemed to hold the
same, until payment is made by such employer to the city as a Trustee for the
benefit of the city, and any such tax collected by such employer from his or
her employees shall, until the same is paid to the city is deemed a trust fund
in the hands of such employer.
(Prior Code, § 15.01.08)
§ 36.23 DECLARATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Every person who anticipates any taxable income which is not
subject to §
36.20 or who engages in any business, profession, enterprise or activity
subject to the tax imposed by §
36.17 shall file a declaration setting forth such estimated income or the
estimated profit or loss from such business activity, together with the
estimated tax due thereon.
      (2)   If, however, a person’s income is wholly from wages from which the
tax will be withheld and remitted to the city in accordance with §
36.20, such person need not file a declaration.
   (B)   (1)   The declaration shall be filed on or before April 15 of each
year during the life of this subchapter or within three months of the date the
taxpayer becomes subject to tax for the first time.
      (2)   Those taxpayers reporting on a fiscal year basis shall file a
declaration within 105 days after the beginning of each fiscal year or period.
   (C)   (1)   Such declaration shall be filed upon a form furnished by, or
obtainable from, the Tax Auditor; provided, however, that credit shall be taken
for the city tax to be withheld from any portion of the income. In accordance
with the provisions of §
36.31 hereof, 50% credit may be taken for tax to be paid to or to be withheld
and remitted to another taxing municipality.
      (2)   The original declaration (or any subsequent amendment thereof) may
be increased or decreased on or before any subsequent quarterly payment date as
provided for herein.
   (D)   (1)   In the event that the estimated annual tax due is equal to or
greater than $100, such declaration of estimated tax shall be accompanied by a
payment of at least one-fourth of the estimated annual tax, and at least a
similar amount shall be paid on or before the last day of the sixth, ninth and
twelfth months after the beginning of the taxable year. Provided, however,
that, in case an amended declaration has been filed, the unpaid balance shown
due thereon shall be paid in equal installments on or before the remaining
payment dates.
      (2)   On or before the last day of the fourth month of the year following
that for which such declaration or amended declaration was filed, an annual
return shall be filed, and any balance which may be due the city shall be paid
therewith in accordance with the provisions of §
36.19 hereof.
(Prior Code, § 15.01.09)
§ 36.24 DUTIES OF THE CITY AUDITOR.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the City Auditor to receive the tax imposed by
this subchapter in the manner prescribed herein from the taxpayers, to keep an
accurate record thereof, and to report all monies so received to the City
Treasurer.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the City Auditor to collect payment of all
taxes owing the city to keep accurate records for the minimum of six years
showing the amount due from each taxpayer required to file a declaration and/or
make any return, including taxes withheld, and to show the dates and amounts of
payments thereof.
   (C)   The City Auditor hereby charges with the enforcement of the provisions
of the subchapter, and is hereby empowered, subject to the approval of the
Board of Review, to adopt and promulgate and to enforce rules and regulations
to any matter or thing pertaining to the collection of taxes and the
administration and enforcement of the provision of this subchapter, including
provisions for the reexamination and correction of returns.
   (D)   In any case where a taxpayer has failed to file a return or has filed
a return which does not show the proper amount of tax due, the City Auditor may
determine the amount of tax appearing to be due to the city from the taxpayer
and send to such taxpayer a written statement showing the amount of tax so
determined, together with interest and penalties thereon, if any.
   (E)   The City Auditor is authorized to arrange for the payment of unpaid
taxes, interest and penalties on a schedule of installment payments, when the
taxpayer has proved to the City Auditor that, due to certain hardship
conditions, he or she is unable to pay the full amount of the tax due.
      (1)   Such authorization shall not be granted until the taxpayer files
proper returns for all amounts owed by him or her under this section.
      (2)   The City Auditor is also authorized to waive any fines or penalties
for cause.
(Prior Code, § 15.01.10)
§ 36.25 INVESTIGATIVE POWERS OF THE CITY AUDITOR; PENALTY FOR DIVULGING
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   (1)   The City Auditor, or any authorized employee, or agent of the
City Auditor is hereby authorized to examine the books, papers, records and
federal income tax returns of any employer or of any taxpayer or person subject
to, or whom the City Auditor believes is subject to the provisions of this
subchapter, for the purpose of verifying the accuracy of any return made, or,
if no return was made, to ascertain the tax due under this subchapter.
      (2)   Every such employer, supposed employer, taxpayer or supposed
taxpayer is hereby directed and required to furnish, upon written request by
the City Auditor, or his or her duly authorized agent or employee, the means,
facilities and opportunity for making such examinations and investigations as
are hereby authorized.
   (B)   The City Auditor is hereby authorized to order any person presumed to
have knowledge of the facts to appear before him or her and may examine such
person, under oath, concerning any income which was or should have been
returned for taxation or any transaction tending to affect such income, and for
this purpose may compel the production of books, papers, records and federal
income tax returns and the attendance of all persons before him or her, whether
as parties or witnesses, whenever he or she believes such persons have
knowledge of such income or information pertinent to such inquiry.
   (C)   The refusal to produce books, papers, records and federal income tax
returns, or the refusal to submit to such examination by any employer or person
subject or presumed to be subject to the tax or by any officer, agent or
employee of a person subject to the tax or required to withhold tax or the
failure of any person to comply with the provisions of this section or with an
order or subpoena of the City Auditor authorized hereby shall be deemed a
violation of the subchapter, punishable as provided in §§
36.26 and
36.28.
   (D)   Any information gained as the result of any returns, investigations,
hearings or verifications required or authorized by this subchapter shall be
confidential, except for official purposes, or except in accordance with proper
judicial order. Any person divulging such information in violation of this
subchapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
and shall be subject to a fine or penalty of not more than $500 or imprisoned
for not more than six months, or both. Each disclosure shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (E)   In addition to the above penalty, any employee of the city who
violates the provisions of this section relative to the disclosure of
confidential information shall be guilty of an offense punishable by immediate
dismissal.
   (F)   Every taxpayer shall retain all records necessary to compute his or
her tax liability for a period of six years from the date his or her return is
filed or the withholding taxes are paid.
(Prior Code, § 15.01.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 36.26 INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   All taxes imposed and all monies withheld or required to be withheld
by employers under the provisions of this subchapter and remaining unpaid five
days after they become due shall bear interest at the rate of one and 8% per
annum or fraction thereof. Interest due shall be calculated for each month or
portion of month that tax due has not been paid.
   (B)   In addition to interest as provided in division (A) above, penalties
based on the unpaid tax are hereby imposed as follows:
      (1)   Failure of an employer to file withholding and/or reconciliation
reports as required on or before the due date, $25;
      (2)   Failure of an individual, business, corporation or other entity to
file declarations and/or statements on or before the due date, $25;
      (3)   Failure to pay taxes due, other than taxes withheld, 1.5% per month
or fraction thereof, or $25;
      (4)   Failure to remit taxes withheld from employees, 3% per month or
fraction thereof, or $25, whichever is greater;
      (5)   Where the taxpayer has failed to file a return by the due date
resulting from an extension, $25;
      (6)   Where the taxpayer has failed to file a declaration on which he or
she has estimated and paid a tax equal to or greater than the tax paid for the
previous year, or where he or she has filed a previous return and has failed to
file a declaration on which he or she has estimated and paid a tax equal to or
greater than 90% of the actual tax for the year, on or before the end of the
month following the end of the taxable year; 10% of the difference between 90%
or the actual tax for the year and the amount paid through withholding and
declaration; and
      (7)   Except with the case of fraud, the penalty shall not exceed 50% of
the unpaid tax.
   (C)   Exceptions: A penalty shall not be assessed on an additional tax
assessment made by the City Auditor when a return has been filed in good faith
and the tax paid thereon within the time prescribed by the City Auditor; and,
provided further, that, in the absence of fraud, neither penalty nor interest
shall be assessed on any additional tax assessment resulting from a federal
audit, provided an amended return is filed and the additional tax is paid
within three months after final determination of the federal tax liability.
(Prior Code, § 15.01.12)
§ 36.27 COLLECTION OF UNPAID TAXES AND REFUNDS OF OVERPAYMENT.
   (A)   All taxes imposed by this subchapter shall be collectible, together
with any interest and penalties thereon, by suit, as other debts of like amount
are recoverable. Except in the case of fraud, omission of income, subject to
this tax or failure to file a return, an additional assessment shall not be
made after three years from the time the return was due or filed, whichever is
later; provided, however, in those cases in which the Commissioner of the
Internal Revenue Service and the taxpayer have executed a waiver of the federal
statute of limitation, the period within which an additional assessment may be
made by the City Auditor shall be one year from the time of the final
determination of the federal tax liability, whichever is later.
   (B)   Taxes erroneously paid shall not be refunded unless a claim for refund
is made, in writing, to the City Auditor within six months from the date which
such payment was made or the return was due, or within three months after final
determination of the federal tax liability, whichever is later.
(Prior Code, § 15.01.13)
§ 36.28 VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall do any of the following
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $100 or
imprisoned not more than 60 days, or both, for each offense:
      (1)   Fail, neglect or refuse to make any return, questionnaire or
declaration required by this subchapter;
      (2)   Make any incomplete, false or fraudulent return;
      (3)   Fail, neglect or refuse to pay the tax, penalties or interest
imposed by this subchapter;
      (4)   Fail, neglect or refuse to withhold the tax from his or her
employees or remit such withholding to the City Auditor;
      (5)   Refuse to permit the City Auditor or any duly authorized agent or
employee to examine his or her books, records, papers and federal income tax
returns relating to the income or net profits of a taxpayer;
      (6)   Fail to appear before the City Auditor and to produce his or her
employer’s books, records, papers or federal income tax returns relating to the
income or net profits of a taxpayer upon subpoena of the City Auditor;
      (7)   Refuse to disclose to the City Auditor any information with respect
to the income or net profits of a taxpayer;
      (8)   Fail to comply with the provisions of this subchapter or any order
or subpoena of the City Auditor authorized hereby;
      (9)   Give to the employer false information as to his or her true name,
correct Social Security number or residence address or fail to promptly notify
an employer of any change in residence address and date thereof;
      (10)   Failure on the part of any employer to maintain proper records of
employees’ residence addresses, total wages paid and city tax withheld or to
knowingly give the City Auditor false information;
      (11)   Fail to comply with the provisions of this subchapter or any order
or subpoena of the City Auditor;
      (12)   Fail to refuse to make any payment on the estimated tax for any
year or part of any tax year as required by §
36.21;
      (13)   Fail to cause the tax withheld from the wages of the employees
pursuant to this subchapter to be paid to the city in accordance with the
provisions of §
36.22; or
      (14)   Attempt to do anything whatever to avoid the payment of the whole
or any part of the tax, penalties or interest imposed by this chapter.
   (B)   All prosecutions under this section must be commenced within three
years from the time of the offense complained of, except in the case of failure
to file a return or in the case of filing a false or fraudulent return, in
which event the limitation of time within which prosecution must be commenced
shall be six years from the date the return was due or the date the false or
fraudulent return was filed.
   (C)   The failure of any employer or person to receive or procure a return,
declaration or other required form shall not excuse him or her from making any
information return, return or declaration, from filing such form or from paying
the tax.
(Prior Code, § 15.01.14)
§ 36.29 BOARD OF REVIEW.
   (A)   A Board of Review, consisting of three electors of the city, one to be
appointed by the City Manager, one to be appointed by the City Auditor and the
third to be selected by the City Attorney, is created by this subchapter. No
member shall be appointed to the Board of Review who holds other public office
or appointment. The members of the Board of Review shall serve without pay.
   (B)   A majority of the members of the Board of Review shall constitute a
quorum. The Board of Review shall adopt its own procedural rules and shall keep
a record of its transactions.
   (C)   All hearings of the Board shall be conducted privately and the
provisions of §
36.25 with reference to the confidential character of information required to
be disclosed by the subchapter shall apply to such matters as may be heard
before the Board of Review on appeal.
   (D)   Any person dissatisfied with any ruling or decision of the City
Auditor that is made under the authority conferred by the subchapter may appeal
there from to the Board of Review within 30 days from the announcement of such
ruling or decision by the City Auditor. The Board of Review shall, on hearing,
have jurisdiction to affirm, reverse or modify any such ruling or decision, or
any part thereof. The Board of Review shall issue its decision within 90 days
from the date when the written notice of appeal is received. Any person
dissatisfied with the ruling of the City Auditor and appealing to the Board of
Review shall cause notice, in writing, to be served upon the City Auditor by
ordinary U.S. Mail within three days after notifying the Board of Review of
intent to appeal.
(Prior Code, § 15.01.15)
§ 36.30 ALLOCATION OF FUNDS.
   The funds collected under the provisions of this subchapter shall be
disbursed in the following order, to wit: the balance of any monies collected
under the provisions of this subchapter shall be allocated in such manner as
prescribed by ordinances adopted by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 15.01.16)
§ 36.31 COLLECTION OF TAX AFTER TERMINATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   This subchapter shall continue effective insofar as the levy of taxes
is concerned until repealed, and insofar as the collection of taxes levied
hereunder and actions or proceedings for collecting any tax levied or enforcing
any provisions of this subchapter are concerned. It shall continue to be
effective until all of said taxes levied in the aforesaid period are fully paid
and any and all suits and prosecutions for the collection of said taxes or for
the punishment of violations of this subchapter shall have been fully
terminated, subject to the limitations contained in §§
36.27 and
36.28.
   (B)   Annual returns due for all or any part of the last effective year of
this subchapter shall be due on the date provided in §§
36.21 and
36.22 as though the same were continuing.
(Prior Code, § 15.01.18)
LODGING EXCISE TAX
§ 36.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY AUDITOR. The City Auditor of the City of Nelsonville, Ohio.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The Code Administrator of the City of Nelsonville,
Ohio.
   LODGING ESTABLISHMENT. Every establishment kept, used, maintained,
advertised or held out to the public to be a place where sleeping
accommodations are offered for a consideration to guests, in which one or more
rooms are used for the accommodation of such guests, whether such rooms are in
one or several structures. This includes, but is not limited to, hotels,
motels, bed and breakfasts, cabins, campgrounds, condominiums, vacation homes,
rooms in residences being rented to guests for sleeping accommodations, owner-
occupied residences, accessory dwelling units and non-owner occupied
residences.
   OCCUPANCY. The use or possession, or the right to the use or possession of,
any room or rooms or space or portion thereof in any lodging establishment for
dwelling, lodging or sleeping purposes. The use or possession, or right to use
or possess, any room or any suite of connecting rooms as office space, banquet
or private dining rooms, or exhibit, sample or display space shall not be
considered occupancy within the meaning of this definition unless the person
exercising occupancy uses or possesses or has the right to use or possess all
or any portion of such room or suite of rooms for dwelling, lodging or sleeping
purposes.
   OPERATOR. The person who is the proprietor of the lodging establishment,
whether in the capacity of owner, lessee, licensee, mortgagee in possession or
any other capacity. Where the OPERATOR performs their functions through a
managing agent of any type or character, other than an employee, the managing
agent shall be deemed an OPERATOR for the purposes of this subchapter and shall
have the same duties and liabilities as the principal. Compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter by either the principal or the managing agent
shall, however, be compliance by both.
   PERSON. Any natural person, individual, firm, partnership, joint venture,
association, social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company,
corporation, limited liability company, estate, trust, business trust,
receiver, trustee, syndicate or any other group or persons combination acting
as a unit.
   RENT. The consideration received for occupancy valued in money, whether
received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits and
property or services of any kind or nature, and also any amount for which the
occupant is liable for the occupancy without any deduction there from
whatsoever.
   TRANSIENT GUESTS. Persons occupying a room or rooms for sleeping
accommodations for less than 30 consecutive days.
(Ord. 47-21, passed 6-28-2021)
§ 36.46 APPLICATION OF LODGING TAX.
   (A)   For the purpose of providing revenue with which to meet the needs of
the city, for the use of the economic development fund of the city, there is
levied a tax of 3% on all rents received by a lodging establishment for lodging
furnished to transient guests as established in Ordinances 14-02 and 27-12.
   (B)   The lodging tax applies and is collectible at the time the lodging is
furnished, regardless of the time when the charge for the lodging is paid.
   (C)   The lodging tax shall be paid by the transient guest to the vendor,
and each vendor shall collect from the transient guest the full and exact
amount of the tax payable on each taxable lodging. If, for any reason, the
vendor does not collect the tax from the transient guest, the vendor is
responsible for the taxable amount.
   (D)   For the purpose of the proper administration of this subchapter, it
shall be presumed that all transient lodging in the city to transient guests is
subject to the lodging tax.
(Ord. 47-21, passed 6-28-2021)
§ 36.47 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   No tax shall be imposed under this subchapter upon:
      (1)   Rents not within the taxing power of the city under the
Constitution or laws of the state or the United States; or
      (2)   Rents paid by the state or any of its political subdivisions.
   (B)   No exemptions claimed under this section shall be granted except upon
a claim made at the time rent is collected and under penalty of perjury upon a
form prescribed by the City Auditor. All claims of exemption shall be made in
the manner prescribed by the City Auditor.
(Ord. 47-21, passed 6-28-2021)
§ 36.48 PROHIBITION AGAINST FALSE EVIDENCE OF TAX-EXEMPT STATUS.
   (A)   No transient guest shall refuse to pay the full and exact tax as
required by this subchapter or present to the operator false evidence
indicating that the lodging as furnished is not subject to the tax.
   (B)   If the transaction is claimed to be exempt, the transient guest must
furnish to the operator, and the operator must obtain from the transient guest,
a certificate specifying the reason that the sale is not legally subject to the
tax. If no certificate is obtained, it shall be presumed the tax applies.
(Ord. 47-21, passed 6-28-2021)
§ 36.49 TAX TO BE SEPARATELY STATED AND CHARGED.
   (A)   When possible, the tax to be collected shall be stated and charged
separately from the rent and shown separately on any record thereof, at the
time when the occupancy is arranged or contracted and charged for, and upon
every evidence of occupancy or any bill or statement or charge made for said
occupancy issued or delivered by the operator, and the tax shall be paid by the
occupant to the operator as trustee for and on account of the city, and the
operator shall be liable to the city for the collection thereof and for the
tax.
   (B)   No operator of a lodging establishment shall advertise or state in any
manner, whether directly or indirectly, that the tax or any part thereof will
be assumed or absorbed by the operator, or that it will not be added to the
rent, or that, if added, any part will be refunded except in the manner
hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 47-21, passed 6-28-2021)
§ 36.50 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Within 30 days after the effective date of this subchapter or within
30 days after commencing business, whichever is later, each operator of any
lodging establishment renting lodging to transient guests shall register said
establishment with the City Auditor’s office and obtain a “transient occupancy
registration certificate” to be at all times posted in a conspicuous place on
the premises.
   (B)   Said certificate shall, among other things, state the following:
      (1)   The name of the operator;
      (2)   The address of the lodging establishment;
      (3)   The date upon which the certificate was issued; and
      (4)   “This transient occupancy registration certificate signifies that
the person named on the face hereof has fulfilled the requirements of the city
lodging excise tax ordinance by registering with the Zoning Administrator for
the purpose of collecting from transient guests the lodging excise tax and
remitting said tax to the City Auditor. This certificate does not constitute a
permit”.
(Ord. 47-21, passed 6-28-2021)
§ 36.51 REPORTING AND PERMITTING.
   (A)   (1)   Lodging tax is due quarterly on the twentieth day following the
end of the preceding quarter – January 20, April 20, July 20 and October 20. On
or before these dates, each operator shall make and file a return for the
preceding three months on forms prescribed by the City Auditor.
      (2)   Such returns shall show the receipts from furnishing lodging, the
amount of tax due from the operator to the city for the period covered by the
return and such other information as the City Auditor deems necessary for the
proper administration of this subchapter.
      (3)   The City Auditor may extend the time for making and filing returns.
Returns shall be filed by delivering or mailing the same to the City Auditor
together with payment of the full amount of tax shown to be due thereon. To
meet this requirement, the tax return and payment must be mailed with a dated
postmark. The postmark must be dated on or before the day the return is due.
For all other delivery forms, the tax return and payment must be received on or
before the last business day before the day the return is due.
   (B)   All claims for exemptions from tax filed by transient guests with the
operator during the reporting period shall be filed with the return.
   (C)   All returns and payments submitted by each operator shall be treated
as confidential by the City Auditor and shall not be released except upon order
of a court of competent jurisdiction or to an officer or agent of the United
States, the state, the county or the city for official use only.
   (D)   If, for any reason, the lodging establishment shall cease doing
business in the city, all returns and payments are due immediately upon
cessation of business.
   (E)   All taxes collected by operators pursuant to this section shall be
held in trust for the account of the city until payment thereof is made to the
City Auditor.
   (F)   The City Auditor, if he or she deems it necessary in order to ensure
the payment of the tax imposed by this section, may require returns and
payments to be made for other than twice-yearly periods. The returns shall be
signed by the operator or his or her authorized agent.
(Ord. 47-21, passed 6-28-2021)
§ 36.52 DELINQUENCY PENALTY AND INTEREST.
   (A)   Delinquency. Any operator who fails to remit any tax imposed by this
subchapter within the time required shall pay a penalty equal to 10% of the
amount of the tax in addition to the lax.
   (B)   Continued delinquency. Any operator who fails to remit any delinquent
remittances on or before a period of 30 days following the date on which the
remittance first became delinquent shall pay a second delinquency penalty equal
to 10% of the amount of the tax and previous penalty in addition to the tax and
the 10% penalty first imposed. An additional penalty equal to 10% of the total
tax and penalty of the previous 30-day period shall be added for each
successive 30-day period the account remains delinquent.
   (C)   Fraud. If the City Auditor determines that the non-payment of any
remittance due under this subchapter is due to fraud, a penalty equal to 25% of
the amount of the tax shall be added thereto in addition to the penalties
stated in divisions (A) and (B) above.
   (D)   Interest. In addition to the previous penalties imposed, any operator
who fails to remit any tax imposed by this subchapter shall pay interest at the
rate of 1.5% or fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax, exclusive of
penalties, from the date on which the remittance first became delinquent until
paid.
(Ord. 47-21, passed 6-28-2021)
§ 36.53 RECORDS, INSPECTION, DESTRUCTION, AUDITING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Each operator shall keep complete and accurate records of lodging
furnished and of the tax collected thereon, which shall be the amount due under
this subchapter, and shall keep all invoices and such other pertinent
documents. If the operator furnished lodging not subject to the tax, the
operator’s records shall show the identity of the transient guest, if the sale
was not exempted by reason of such identity, or shall show the nature of the
transaction, if exempted for any other reason. Such records and other documents
shall be open during business hours for inspection by the City Auditor, or his
or her agents, and shall be preserved for a period of four years, unless the
City Auditor, in writing, consents to their destruction within that period, or
unless the four-year period is extended by any orders requesting that such
records be kept for a longer period of time.
   (B)   The City Auditor, or his or her agent, shall have the right at all
reasonable times during business hours to make such examinations and
inspections of books and records of the lodging establishment as may be
necessary to determine the correctness of the required reports and the taxes
paid. The right of the City Auditor, or his or her agent, to inspect, audit and
make copies of books and records of the lodging establishment shall include,
but not be limited to, the following: books of accounts, daily cash receipt
records and lodging establishment registration forms.
   (C)   (1)   The City Auditor shall further have the right to order a special
purpose audit of the lodging establishment’s books and records upon determining
that there exists the lesser of a 3% or $100 underpayment of the lodging excise
tax.
      (2)   The cost of the special purpose audit shall be assessed and paid
for by the operator. Any deficiency in payment shall be deemed a nonpayment and
shall be immediately paid by the operator and shall further be subject to
penalties as provided in this code of ordinances or the Ohio Revised Code.
(Ord. 47-21, passed 6-28-2021)
§ 36.54 UNLAWFUL TO PROHIBIT INSPECTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any operator to prohibit or hinder the City
Auditor, or his or her agent, from making any examination or audit as
authorized by this code of ordinances or the Ohio Revised Code.
(Ord. 47-21, passed 6-28-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 36.55 FAILURE TO COLLECT AND REPORT TAX; DETERMINATION OF TAX BY CITY
AUDITOR.
   (A)   If any operator shall fail or refuse to collect the tax and to make,
within the time provided in this subchapter, any report and remittance of the
tax or any portion thereof required by this subchapter, the City Auditor shall
proceed in such manner as he or she may deem best to obtain facts and
information on which to base his or her estimate of the tax due.
   (B)   As soon as the City Auditor procures such facts and information as he
or she is able to obtain upon which to base the assessment of any tax imposed
by this subchapter and payable by any operator who has failed or refused to
collect the same and to make such report and remittance, he or she shall
proceed to determine and assess against such operator the tax, interest and
penalties provided for by this subchapter. In case such determination is made,
the City Auditor shall give a notice of the amount so assessed by serving it
personally or by depositing it in the U.S. Mail, postage prepaid, addressed to
the operator so assessed at his or her last known place of business.
   (C)   Such operator may, within ten days after the serving or mailing of
such notice, make application, in writing, to the City Auditor for a hearing on
the amount assessed. If application by the operator for a hearing is not made
within the time prescribed, the tax, interest and penalties, if any, determined
by the City Auditor shall become final and conclusive and immediately due and
payable.
   (D)   If such application is made, the City Auditor shall give not less than
five days written notice in the manner prescribed herein to the operator to
show cause at a time and place fixed for such tax, interest and penalties. At
such hearing, the operator may appear and offer evidence why such specified
tax, interest and penalties should not be fixed.
   (E)   After such hearing, the City Auditor shall determine the proper tax to
be remitted and shall thereafter give written notice to the person in the
manner prescribed herein of such determination and the amount of such tax,
interest and penalties. The amount determined to be due shall be payable after
15 days unless an appeal is taken as provided in this section.
(Ord. 47-21, passed 6-28-2021)
§ 36.56 APPEAL.
   Any operator aggrieved by any decision of the City Auditor with respect to
the amount of such tax, interest and penalties, if any, may appeal to the Board
of Tax Review by filing a notice of appeal with the City Auditor and the City
Council Clerk within 15 days of the serving or mailing of the determination of
tax due. The Board of Tax Review shall fix a time and place for hearing such
appeal and shall give notice, in writing, to such operator at his or her last
known place of business. The findings of the Board of Tax Review shall be final
and conclusive and shall be served upon the appellant in the manner prescribed
above for service of notice of hearing. Any amount found to be due shall be
immediately due and payable upon the service of notice.
(Ord. 47-21, passed 6-28-2021)
§ 36.57 ACTIONS TO COLLECT.
   Any such tax collected by an operator, which has not been paid to the city,
shall be deemed a debt owed by the operator to the city. Any person owing such
a debt to the city under the provisions of this subchapter, which debt has
become delinquent, shall be liable to an action brought in the name of the city
for the recovery of such amount.
(Ord. 47-21, passed 6-28-2021)
§ 36.58 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any operator who fails to file any return or report required under
this subchapter shall be subject to the maximum fine of $500 per occurrence. A
separate offense shall be deemed to occur on the first day of each month the
failure to file continues.
   (B)   Any person violating or failing to comply with any other provision of
this subchapter is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not more
than the maximum amount allowed by law
(Ord. 47-21, passed 6-28-2021)
§ 36.59 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Whenever the amount of any tax, interest or penally has been overpaid
or paid more than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or
received by the city under this section, it may be refunded, as provided in
divisions (B) and (C) below; provided a claim in writing therefor, stating
under penalty of perjury the specific grounds upon which the claim is founded,
is filed with the City Auditor within three years of the date of payment. The
claim shall be on forms furnished by the City Auditor.
   (B)   An operator may claim a refund or take as credit against taxes
collected and remitted the amount overpaid, paid more than once or erroneously
or illegally collected or received when it is established in a manner
prescribed by the City Auditor that the person from whom the tax has been
collected was not a transient guest; provided, however, that neither a refund
nor a credit shall be allowed unless the amount of the tax so collected has
either been refunded to the transient guest or credited to rent subsequently
payable by the transient guest to the operator. No refund shall be paid under
the provisions of this section unless the claimant establishes his or her right
thereto by written records showing entitlement thereto.
(Ord. 47-21, passed 6-28-2021)
§ 36.60 MONEY RECEIVED, WHERE CREDITED.
   The money received under the provisions of this subchapter shall be credited
to the economic development fund of the city.
(Ord. 47-21, passed 6-28-2021)
§ 36.61 ADDITIONAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The City Auditor is authorized to issue and promulgate additional written
rules and regulations to assist in the administration and enforcement of this
subchapter and operators must comply with the same if they have received
written copies thereof at least 30 days prior to the effective date of such
rules and regulations.
(Ord. 47-21, passed 6-28-2021)
CHAPTER 37: MUNICIPAL INCOME TAX
Section
General Provisions
   
37.001   Effective date
   
37.002   Definitions
   
37.003   Adoption of rules
   
37.004   Mandatory registration
   
37.005   Rental and leased property
   
37.006   Collection of tax after termination of chapter
Authority to Levy Tax; Purposes of Tax; Rate
   
37.020   Authority to levy tax
   
37.021   Purpose of tax; rate
   
37.022   Allocation of funds
   
37.023   Statement of procedural history; state mandated changes to municipal
income tax
Income Subject to Tax for Individuals
   
37.035   Determining municipal taxable income for individuals
   
37.036   Domicile
   
37.037   Exemption for member or employee of general assembly and certain
judges
Collection at Source
   
37.050   Withholding from wages
   
37.051   Occasional entrant
Income Subject to Net Profit Tax
   
37.065   Net profit; income subject to net profit tax; alternative
apportionment
   
37.066   Consolidated federal income tax return
   
37.067   Tax credit for business that foster new jobs in the state
   
37.068   Tax credits to foster job retention
   
37.069   Declaration of estimated tax
Credit for Tax Paid
   
37.080   Credit for tax paid to another city
   
37.081   Refundable credit for qualifying loss
   
37.082   Credit for person working in joint economic development district
   
37.083   Credit for tax beyond statute for obtaining refund
Annual Return
   
37.095   Returns and payment of tax
   
37.096   Return and payment of tax; individuals serving in combat zones
   
37.097   Use of State Business Gateway; types of filings authorized
   
37.098   Extension of time to file
   
37.099   Amended returns
   
37.100   Refunds
Fees and Charges
   
37.115   Penalty, interest, fees and charges
   
37.116   Audit
   
37.117   Rounding
Tax Administrator
   
37.130   Administrative powers of Tax Administrator
   
37.131   Compromise of claim and payment over time
   
37.132   Right to examine
   
37.133   Requiring identifying information
   
37.134   Opinion of Tax Administrator
Confidentiality and Fraud
   
37.145   Confidentiality
   
37.146   Fraud
Appeals
   
37.160   Assessment; appeal based on presumption of delivery
   
37.161   Board of Review; appeal to Board of Review
   
37.162   Actions to recover; statute of limitations
 
   
37.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 37.001 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   Ordinance 2015-XX, effective January 1, 2016, and corresponding changes to
R.C. § 718, apply to municipal taxable years beginning on or after January 1,
2016. All provisions of Title 37 apply to taxable years beginning 2016 and
succeeding taxable years. Ordinance 2015-XX does not repeal the existing
sections of Title 37 for any taxable year prior to 2016, but rather amends
Title 35 effective January 1, 2016. For municipal taxable years beginning
before January 1, 2016, the city shall continue to administer, audit and
enforce the income tax of the city under R.C. § 718 and ordinances and
resolutions of the city and those ordinances and resolutions existed before
January 1, 2016.
(Source: Uncodified Section 2 of Am Sub HB 5, passed Dec 2014; R.C. § 718.04)
(Prior Code, § 35.02.01)
§ 37.002 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Any term used in this chapter that is not otherwise defined in
this chapter has the same meaning as when used in a comparable context in laws
of the United States relating to federal income taxation or in R.C. Title LVII,
unless a different meaning is clearly required. If a term used in this chapter
that is not otherwise defined in this chapter is used in a comparable context
in both the laws of the United States relating to federal income tax and in
R.C. Title LVII and the use is not consistent, then the use of the term in the
laws of the United States relating to federal income tax shall control over the
use of the term in R.C. Title LVII.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, the singular shall include the
plural, and the masculine shall include the feminine and the gender neutral.
   (B)   As used in this chapter:
      ADJUSTED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME. For a person required to file as a C
corporation, or for a person that has elected to be taxed as a C corporation
under division (d)4. of the definition for NET PROFIT, means a C corporation’s
federal taxable income before net operating losses and special deductions as
determined under the Internal Revenue Code, adjusted as follows:
         (a)   Deduct intangible income to the extent included in federal
taxable income. The deduction shall be allowed regardless of whether the
intangible income relates to assets used in a trade or business or assets held
for the production of income;
         (b)   Add an amount equal to five per cent of intangible income
deducted under division (a) above, but excluding that portion of intangible
income directly related to the sale, exchange or other disposition of property
described in I.R.C. § 1221;
         (c)   Add any losses allowed as a deduction in the computation of
federal taxable income if the losses directly relate to the sale, exchange or
other disposition of an asset described in I.R.C. §§ 1221 or 1231;
         (d)   1.   Except as provided in division (d)2. below, deduct income
and gain included in federal taxable income to the extent the income and gain
directly relate to the sale, exchange or other disposition of an asset
described in the I.R.C. §§ 1221 or 1231.
            2.   Division (d)1. above does not apply to the extent the income
or gain is income or gain described in the I.R.C. §§ 1245 or 1250.
         (e)   Add taxes on or measured by net income allowed as a deduction in
the computation of federal taxable income;
         (f)   In the case of a real estate investment trust or regulated
investment company, add all amounts with respect to dividends to, distributions
to or amounts set aside for or credited to the benefit of investors and allowed
as a deduction in the computation of federal taxable income;
         (g)   Deduct, to the extent not otherwise deducted or excluded in
computing federal taxable income, any income derived from a transfer agreement
or from the enterprise transferred under that agreement under R.C. § 4313.02;
         (h)   1.   a.   Except as limited by divisions (h)2. and (h)3. below,
deduct any net operating loss incurred by the person in a taxable year
beginning on or after January 1, 2017.
               b.   The amount of such net operating loss shall be deducted
from net profit that is reduced by exempt income to the extent necessary to
reduce municipal taxable income to zero, with any remaining unused portion of
the net operating loss carried forward to not more than five consecutive
taxable years following the taxable year in which the loss was incurred, but in
no case for more years than necessary for the deduction to be fully utilized.
            2.   No person shall use the deduction allowed by this division (h)
to offset qualifying wages.
            3.   a.   For taxable years beginning in 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021 or
2022, a person may not deduct more than 50% of the amount of the deduction
otherwise allowed by division (h)1. above.
               b.   For taxable years beginning in 2023 or thereafter, a person
may deduct the full amount allowed by division (h)1. above.
            4.   Nothing in division (h)3.a. above precludes a person from
carrying forward, for use with respect to any return filed for a taxable year
beginning after 2018, any amount of net operating loss that was not fully
utilized by operation of division (h)3.a. above. To the extent that an amount
of net operating loss that was not fully utilized in one or more taxable years
by operation of division (h)3.a. above is carried forward for use with respect
to a return filed for a taxable year beginning in 2019, 2020, 2021 or 2022, the
limitation described in division (h)3.a. above shall apply to the amount
carried forward.
         (i)   Deduct any net profit of a pass-through entity owned, directly
or indirectly, by the taxpayer and included in the taxpayer’s federal taxable
income unless an affiliated group of corporations includes that net profit in
the group’s federal taxable income in accordance with §
37.066(E)(3)(b); and
         (j)   1.   Add any loss incurred by a pass-through entity owned,
directly or indirectly, by the taxpayer and included in the taxpayer’s federal
taxable income unless an affiliated group of corporations includes that loss in
the group’s federal taxable income in accordance with §
37.066(E)(3)(b).
            2.   If the taxpayer is not a C corporation, is not a disregarded
entity that has made the election described in division (b) above, is not a
publicly traded partnership that has made the election described in division
(d) of the definition for NET PROFIT and is not an individual, the taxpayer
shall compute adjusted federal taxable income under this section as if the
taxpayer were a C corporation, except guaranteed payments and other similar
amounts paid or accrued to a partner, former partner, shareholder, former
shareholder, member or former member shall not be allowed as a deductible
expense unless such payments are in consideration for the use of capital and
treated as payment of interest under the I.R.C. § 469 or United States Treasury
regulations. Amounts paid or accrued to a qualified self-employed retirement
plan with respect to a partner, former partner, shareholder, former
shareholder, member or former member of the taxpayer, amounts paid or accrued
to or for health insurance for a partner, former partner, shareholder, former
shareholder, member or former member and amounts paid or accrued to or for life
insurance for a partner, former partner, shareholder, former shareholder,
member or former member shall not be allowed as a deduction.
            3.   Nothing in this definition shall be construed as allowing the
taxpayer to add or deduct any amount more than once or shall be construed as
allowing any taxpayer to deduct any amount paid to or accrued for purposes of
federal self-employment tax.
            4.   In calculating adjusted federal taxable income, a taxpayer
cannot take credit for taxes that were not paid to the city.
      ASSESSMENT.
         (a)   Any of the following:
            1.   A written finding by the Tax Administrator that a person has
underpaid municipal income tax, or owes penalty and interest, or any
combination of tax, penalty or interest, to the city;
            2.   A full or partial denial of a refund request issued under §
37.100(B)(2);
            3.   A Tax Administrator’s denial of a taxpayer’s request for use
of an alternative apportionment method, issued under §
37.065(B)(2); or
            4.   A Tax Administrator’s requirement for a taxpayer to use an
alternative apportionment method, issued under §
37.065(B)(3).
         (b)   For purposes of divisions (a)1., (a)2., (a)3. and (a)4. above,
an assessment shall commence the person’s time limitation for making an appeal
to the Board of Review pursuant to §
37.161, and shall have ASSESSMENT written in all capital letters at the top of
such finding.
         (c)   ASSESSMENT does not include notice(s) denying a request for
refund issued under §
37.100(B)(3), a billing statement notifying a taxpayer of current or past-due
balances owed to the city, a Tax Administrator’s request for additional
information, a notification to the taxpayer of mathematical errors or a Tax
Administrator’s other written correspondence to a person or taxpayer that does
not meet the criteria prescribed by division (a) above.
      AUDIT. The examination of a person or the inspection of the books,
records, memoranda or accounts of a person, ordered to appear before the Tax
Administrator, for the purpose of determining liability for a municipal income
tax
      BOARD OF REVIEW. Has the same meaning as BOARD OF REVIEW.
      CALENDAR QUARTER. The three-month period ending on the last day of March,
June, September or December.
      CASINO OPERATOR and CASINO FACILITY. Has the same meanings as in R.C. §
3772.01.
      CERTIFIED MAIL, EXPRESS MAIL, UNITED STATES MAIL, POSTAL SERVICE and
similar terms. Include any delivery service authorized pursuant to R.C. §
5703.056.
      COMPENSATION. Any form of remuneration paid to an employee for personal
services.
      DISREGARDED ENTITY. A single member limited liability company, a
qualifying subchapter S subsidiary or another entity if the company, subsidiary
or entity is a disregarded entity for federal income tax purposes.
      DOMICILE. The true, fixed and permanent home of the taxpayer to which,
whenever absent, the taxpayer intends to return.
      EXEMPT INCOME. All of the following:
         (a)   The military pay or allowances of members of the armed forces of
the United States or members of their reserve components, including the
national guard of any state;
         (b)   1.   Except as provided in division (b)2. below, intangible
income;
            2.   A municipal corporation that taxed any type of intangible
income on March 29, 1988, pursuant to 238 S.B. § 3 of the 116th General
Assembly, may continue to tax that type of income if a majority of the electors
of the city voting on the question of whether to permit the taxation of that
type of intangible income after 1988 voted in favor thereof at an election held
on November 8, 1988.
         (c)   Social Security benefits, railroad retirement benefits,
unemployment compensation, pensions, retirement benefit payments, payments from
annuities and similar payments made to an employee or to the beneficiary of an
employee under a retirement program or plan, disability payments received from
private industry or local, state or federal governments or from charitable,
religious or educational organizations, and the proceeds of sickness, accident
or liability insurance policies. As used in this division (c), UNEMPLOYMENT
COMPENSATION does not include supplemental unemployment compensation described
in the I.R.C. § 3402(o)(2);
         (d)   The income of religious, fraternal, charitable, scientific,
literary or educational institutions to the extent such income is derived from
tax-exempt real estate, tax-exempt tangible or intangible property or tax-
exempt activities;
         (e)   Compensation paid under R.C. §§ 3501.28 or 3501.36 to a person
serving as a precinct election official to the extent that such compensation
does not exceed one thousand dollars for the taxable year. Such compensation in
excess of $1,000 for the taxable year shall be subject to taxation. The city
shall not require the payer of such compensation to withhold any tax from that
compensation;
         (f)   Dues, contributions and similar payments received by charitable,
religious, educational or literary organizations or labor unions, lodges and
similar organizations;
         (g)   Alimony and child support received;
         (h)   Awards for personal injuries or for damages to property from
insurance proceeds or otherwise, excluding compensation paid for lost salaries
or wages or awards for punitive damages;
         (i)   Income of a public utility when that public utility is subject
to the tax levied under R.C. §§ 5727.24 or 5727.30. Division (i) of this
definition does not apply for purposes of R.C. Chapter 5745;
         (j)   Gains from involuntary conversions, interest on federal
obligations, items of income subject to a tax levied by the state and that the
city is specifically prohibited by law from taxing and income of a decedent’s
estate during the period of administration except such income from the
operation of a trade or business;
         (k)   Compensation or allowances excluded from federal gross income
under the I.R.C. § 107;
         (l)   Employee compensation that is not qualifying wages as defined in
the definition for QUALIFYING WAGES;
         (m)   1.   Compensation paid to a person employed within the
boundaries of a United States Air Force base under the jurisdiction of the
United States Air Force that is used for the housing of members of the United
States air force and is a center for Air Force operations, unless the person is
subject to taxation because of residence or domicile.
            2.   If the compensation is subject to taxation because of
residence or domicile, tax on such income shall be payable only to the city of
residence or domicile;
         (n)   An S corporation shareholder’s distributive share of net profits
of the S corporation, other than any part of the distributive share of net
profits that represents wages as defined in the I.R.C. § 3121(a) or net
earnings from self-employment as defined in the I.R.C. § 1402(a);
         (o)   All of the municipal taxable income earned by individuals under
18 years of age;
         (p)   1.   Except as provided in divisions(11)(P)(ii), (iii) and (iv)
of this section, qualifying wages described in §
37.051(B)(1) or (E) to the extent the qualifying wages are not subject to
withholding for the city under either of those divisions.
            2.   The exemption provided in division (p)1. above does not apply
with respect to the city in which the employee resided at the time the employee
earned the qualifying wages.
            3.   The exemption provided in division (p)1. above does not apply
to qualifying wages that an employer elects to withhold under §
37.051(D)(2).
            4.   The exemption provided in division (p)1. above does not apply
to qualifying wages if both of the following conditions apply:
               a.   For qualifying wages described in §
37.051(B)(1), the employee’s employer withholds and remits tax on the
qualifying wages to the city in which the employee’s principal place of work is
situated, or, for qualifying wages described in §
37.051(E), the employee’s employer withholds and remits tax on the qualifying
wages to the city in which the employer’s fixed location is located;
               b.   The employee receives a refund of the tax described in
division (p)4.a. above on the basis of the employee not performing services in
that municipal corporation.
         (q)   1.   Except as provided in division (q)2. or (q)3. below,
compensation that is not qualifying wages paid to a nonresident individual for
personal services performed in the city on not more than 20 days in a taxable
year.
            2.   The exemption provided in division (q)1. above does not apply
under either of the following circumstances.
               a.   The individual’s base of operation is located in the city.
               b.   The individual is a professional athlete, professional
entertainer or public figure and the compensation is paid for the performance
of services in the individual’s capacity as a professional athlete,
professional entertainer or public figure. For purposes of this division
(q)2.b., PROFESSIONAL ATHLETE, PROFESSIONAL ENTERTAINER and PUBLIC FIGURE have
the same meanings as in §
37.051.
            3.   Compensation to which this division (q) applies shall be
treated as earned or received at the individual’s base of operation. If the
individual does not have a base of operation, the compensation shall be treated
as earned or received where the individual is domiciled.
            4.   For purposes of this division (q), BASE OF OPERATION means the
location where an individual owns or rents an office, storefront or similar
facility to which the individual regularly reports and at which the individual
regularly performs personal services for compensation.
         (r)   Compensation paid to a person for personal services performed
for a political subdivision on property owned by the political subdivision,
regardless of whether the compensation is received by an employee of the
subdivision or another person performing services for the subdivision under a
contract with the subdivision, if the property on which services are performed
is annexed to the city pursuant to R.C. § 709.023 on or after March 27, 2013,
unless the person is subject to such taxation because of residence. If the
compensation is subject to taxation because of residence, municipal income tax
shall be payable only to the city of residence; and
         (s)   Income the taxation of which is prohibited by the constitution
or laws of the United States. Any item of income that is exempt income of a
pass-through entity under this definition is exempt income of each owner of the
pass-through entity to the extent of that owner’s distributive or proportionate
share of that item of the entity’s income.
      FORM 2106. Internal Revenue Service form 2106 filed by a taxpayer
pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      GENERIC FORM. An electronic or paper form that is not prescribed by a
particular municipal corporation and that is designed for reporting taxes
withheld by an employer, agent of an employer or other payer, estimated
municipal income taxes or annual municipal income tax liability, including a
request for refund.
      INCOME. Includes the following:
         (a)   1.   For residents, all income, salaries, qualifying wages,
commissions and other compensation from whatever source earned or received by
the resident, including the resident’s distributive share of the net profit of
pass-through entities owned directly or indirectly by the resident and any net
profit of the resident, except as provided in division (d) of NET PROFITS.
            2.   For the purposes of division (a)1. above:
               a.   Any net operating loss of the resident incurred in the
taxable year and the resident’s distributive share of any net operating loss
generated in the same taxable year and attributable to the resident’s ownership
interest in a pass-through entity shall be allowed as a deduction, for that
taxable year and the following five taxable years, against any other net profit
of the resident or the resident’s distributive share of any net profit
attributable to the resident’s ownership interest in a pass-through entity
until fully utilized, subject to division (a)4. below; and
               b.   The resident’s distributive share of the net profit of each
pass-through entity owned, directly or indirectly, by the resident shall be
calculated without regard to any net operating loss that is carried forward by
that entity from a prior taxable year and applied to reduce the entity’s net
profit for the current taxable year.
            3.   Division (a)2. above does not apply with respect to any net
profit or net operating loss attributable to an ownership interest in an S
corporation unless shareholders’ distributive shares of net profits from S
corporations are subject to tax in the city as provided in the definition for
EXEMPT INCOME division (n) or division (e).
            4.   Any amount of a net operating loss used to reduce a taxpayer’s
net profit for a taxable year shall reduce the amount of net operating loss
that may be carried forward to any subsequent year for use by that taxpayer. In
no event shall the cumulative deductions for all taxable years with respect to
a taxpayer’s net operating loss exceed the original amount of that net
operating loss available to that taxpayer.
         (b)   In the case of nonresidents, all income, salaries, qualifying
wages, commissions and other compensation from whatever source earned or
received by the nonresident for work done, services performed or rendered or
activities conducted in the city, including any net profit of the nonresident,
but excluding the nonresident’s distributive share of the net profit or loss of
only pass-through entities owned, directly or indirectly, by the nonresident;
         (c)   For taxpayers that are not individuals, net profit of the
taxpayer; and
         (d)   Lottery, sweepstakes, gambling and sports winnings, winnings
from games of chance and prizes and awards. If the taxpayer is a professional
gambler for federal income tax purposes, the taxpayer may deduct related
wagering losses and expenses to the extent authorized under the Internal
Revenue Code and claimed against such winnings. Credit for tax withheld or paid
to another municipal corporation on such winnings paid to the city where
winnings occur is limited to the credit as specified in §
37.080.
      INTANGIBLE INCOME. Income of any of the following types: income yield,
interest, capital gains, dividends or other income arising from the ownership,
sale, exchange or other disposition of intangible property, including, but not
limited to, investments, deposits, money or credits, as those terms are defined
in R.C. Chapter 5701, and patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade names,
investments in real estate investment trusts, investments in regulated
investment companies and appreciation on deferred compensation. INTANGIBLE
INCOME does not include prizes, awards or other income associated with any
lottery winnings, gambling winnings or other similar games of chance.
      INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. The “Internal Revenue Code of 1986”, 26 U.S.C. 1,
et seq. as amended.
      LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY. A limited liability company formed under R.C.
Chapter 1705 or under the laws of another state.
      LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW. The entity created under §
37.161, and titled “Board of Review”.
      MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. In general terms, a status conferred upon a local
government unit by state law giving the unit certain autonomous operating
authority such as the power of taxation, power of eminent domain, police power
and regulatory power, and includes a joint economic development district or
joint economic development zone that levies an income tax under R.C. §§
715.691, 715.70, 715.71 or 715.74.
      MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME.
         (a)   Means the following:
            1.   For a person other than an individual, income reduced by
exempt income to the extent otherwise included in income and then, as
applicable, apportioned or sitused to the city under §
37.065;
            2.   a.   For an individual who is a resident of the city other
than a qualified municipal corporation, income reduced by exempt income to the
extent otherwise included in income, then reduced as provided in division (b)
below.
               b.   For an individual who is a resident of a qualified
municipal corporation, state adjusted gross income reduced by income exempted
and increased by deductions excluded, by the qualified municipal corporation
from the qualified municipal corporation’s tax on or before December 31, 2013.
If a qualified municipal corporation, on or before December 31, 2013, exempts
income earned by individuals who are not residents of the qualified municipal
corporation and net profit of persons that are not wholly located within the
qualified municipal corporation, such individual or person shall have no
municipal taxable income for the purposes of the tax levied by the qualified
municipal corporation and may be exempted by the qualified municipal
corporation from the requirements of R.C. § 718.03.
            3.   For an individual who is a nonresident of the city, income
reduced by exempt income to the extent otherwise included in income and then,
as applicable, apportioned or sitused to the city under §
37.065, then reduced as provided in division (b) below, and further reduced by
any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward available to the individual for
the city.
         (b)   In computing the municipal taxable income of a taxpayer who is
an individual, the taxpayer may subtract, as provided in division (a)2.a. or
(a)3. above, the amount of the individual’s employee business expenses reported
on the individual’s form 2106 that the individual deducted for federal income
tax purposes for the taxable year, subject to the limitation imposed by the
I.R.C. § 67.
         (c)   For the city in which the taxpayer is a resident, the taxpayer
may deduct all such expenses allowed for federal income tax purposes. For a
municipal corporation in which the taxpayer is not a resident, the taxpayer may
deduct such expenses only to the extent the expenses are related to the
taxpayer’s performance of personal services in that nonresident municipal
corporation.
      MUNICIPALITY. When capitalized, means the City of Nelsonville. CITY is
the designation used most commonly in this chapter.
      NET OPERATING LOSS. A loss incurred by a person in the operation of a
trade or business. NET OPERATING LOSS does not include unutilized losses
resulting from basis limitations, at-risk limitations or passive activity loss
limitations.
      NET PROFIT.
         (a)   NET PROFIT. For a person other than an individual, means
adjusted federal taxable income.
         (b)   NET PROFIT. For a person who is an individual means the
individual’s NET PROFIT required to be reported on schedule C, schedule E or
schedule F reduced by any net operating loss carried forward. For the purposes
of this division, the net operating loss carried forward shall be calculated
and deducted in the same manner as provided in the definition for ADJUSTABLE
FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME division (h).
         (c)   For the purposes of this chapter, and notwithstanding division
(a) above, NET PROFIT of a disregarded entity shall not be taxable as against
that disregarded entity, but shall instead be included in the net profit of the
owner of the disregarded entity.
         (d)   1.   For purposes of this chapter, PUBLICLY TRADED PARTNERSHIP
means any partnership, an interest in which is regularly traded on an
established securities market. A PUBLICLY TRADED PARTNERSHIP may have any
number of partners.
            2.   For the purposes of this chapter, and not withstanding any
other provision of this chapter, the NET PROFIT of a publicly traded
partnership that makes the election described in this division (d) shall be
taxed as if the partnership were a C corporation, and shall not be treated as
the NET PROFIT or income of any owner of the partnership.
            3.   A publicly traded partnership that is treated as a partnership
for federal income tax purposes and that is subject to tax on its NET PROFITS
in one or more municipal corporations in this state may elect to be treated as
a C corporation for municipal income tax purposes. The publicly traded
partnership shall make the election in every municipal corporation in which the
partnership is subject to taxation on its net profits. The election shall be
made on the annual tax return filed in each such municipal corporation. Once
the election is made, the election is binding for a five-year period beginning
with the first taxable year of the initial election. The election continues to
be binding for each subsequent five-year period unless the taxpayer elects to
discontinue filing municipal income tax returns as a C corporation for
municipal purposes under division (d)4. below.
            4.   An election to discontinue filing as a C corporation must be
made in the first year following the last year of a five-year election period
in effect under division (d)3. above. The election to discontinue filing as a C
corporation is binding for a five-year period beginning with the first taxable
year of the election and continues to be binding for each subsequent five-year
period unless the taxpayer elects to discontinue filing municipal income tax
returns as a partnership for municipal purposes. An election to discontinue
filing as a partnership must be made in the first year following the last year
of a five-year election period.
            5.   The publicly traded partnership shall not be required to file
the election with any municipal corporation in which the partnership is not
subject to taxation on its net profits, but this division (d) applies to all
municipal corporations in which an individual owner of the partnership resides.
            6.   The individual owners of the partnership not filing as a C
corporation shall be required to file with their municipal corporation of
residence, and report partnership distribution of net profit.
      NONRESIDENT. An individual that is not a resident of the city.
      OHIO BUSINESS GATEWAY. The online computer network system, created under
R.C. § 125.30, that allows persons to electronically file business reply forms
with state agencies and includes any successor electronic filing and payment
system.
      OTHER PAYER. Any person, other than an individual’s employer or the
employer’s agent that pays an individual any amount included in the federal
gross income of the individual. OTHER PAYER includes casino operators and video
lottery terminal sales agents.
      PASS-THROUGH ENTITY. A partnership not treated as an association taxable
as a C corporation for federal income tax purposes, a limited liability company
not treated as an association taxable as a C corporation for federal income tax
purposes, an S corporation or any other class of entity from which the income
or profits of the entity are given pass-through treatment for federal income
tax purposes. PASS-THROUGH ENTITY does not include a trust, estate, grantor of
a grantor trust or disregarded entity.
      PENSION. Any amount paid to an employee or former employee that is
reported to the recipient on an IRS form 1099-R, or successor form. PENSION
does not include deferred compensation, or amounts attributable to nonqualified
deferred compensation plans, reported as FICA/Medicare wages on an IRS form W-
2, wage and tax statement or successor form.
      PERSON. Includes individuals, firms, companies, joint stock companies,
business trusts, estates, trusts, partnerships, limited liability partnerships,
limited liability companies, associations, C corporations, S corporations,
governmental entities and any other entity.
      POSTAL SERVICE. The United States postal service, or private delivery
service delivering documents and packages within an agreed upon delivery
schedule, or any other carrier service delivering the item.
      POSTMARK DATE, DATE OF POSTMARK and similar terms. Include the date
recorded and marked by a delivery service and recorded electronically to a
database kept in the regular course if its business and marked on the cover in
which the payment or document is enclosed, the date on which the payment or
document was given to the delivery service for delivery
      PRE-2017 NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYFORWARD. As defined in R.C. § 718, means
any net operating loss incurred in a taxable year beginning before January 1,
2017, to the extent such loss was permitted by a municipality. The city,
however, has not allowed net operating loss carryforward under §§
36.15 through
36.31, and shall not allow net operating loss carryforward for tax year 2016.
Therefore the PRE-2017 NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYFORWARD provisions in R.C. 718,
that require inclusions of the losses in certain calculations, are not included
herein.
      QUALIFIED MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. A municipal corporation that, by
resolution or ordinance adopted on or before December 31, 2011, adopted state
adjusted gross income, as defined by R.C. § 5747.01, as the income subject to
tax for the purposes of imposing a municipal income tax.
      QUALIFYING WAGES. Wages, as defined in the I.R.C. § 3121(a), without
regard to any wage limitations, adjusted as follows:
         (a)   Deduct the following amounts:
            1.   Any amount included in wages if the amount constitutes
compensation attributable to a plan or program described in the I.R.C. § 125;
            2.   Any amount included in wages if the amount constitutes payment
on account of a disability related to sickness or an accident paid by a party
unrelated to the employer, agent of an employer or other payer; and
            3.   Any amount included in wages that is exempt income.
         (b)   Add the following amounts:
            1.   Any amount not included in wages solely because the employee
was employed by the employer before April 1, 1986;
            2.   Any amount not included in wages because the amount arises
from the sale, exchange or other disposition of a stock option, the exercise of
a stock option or the sale, exchange or other disposition of stock purchased
under a stock option. This division (b)2. applies only to those amounts
constituting ordinary income;
            3.   Any amount not included in wages if the amount is an amount
described in the I.R.C. §§ 401(k), 403(b) or 457. This division (b)3. applies
only to employee contributions and employee deferrals;
            4.   Any amount that is supplemental unemployment compensation
benefits described in the I.R.C. § 3402(o)(2) and not included in wages;
            5.   Any amount received that is treated as self-employment income
for federal tax purposes in accordance with the I.R.C. § 1402(a)(8); and
            6.   Any amount not included in wages if all of the following
apply:
               a.   For the taxable year the amount is employee compensation
that is earned outside of the United States and that either is included in the
taxpayer’s gross income for federal income tax purposes or would have been
included in the taxpayer’s gross income for such purposes if the taxpayer did
not elect to exclude the income under the I.R.C. § 911;
               b.   For no preceding taxable year did the amount constitute
wages, as defined in the I.R.C. § 3121(a);
               c.   For no succeeding taxable year will the amount constitute
wages; and
               d.   For any taxable year the amount has not otherwise been
added to wages pursuant to either this division (b) or R.C. § 718.03, as that
section existed before the effective date of H.B. 5 of the 130th general
assembly, March 23, 2015.
      RELATED ENTITY. Any of the following:
         (a)   An individual stockholder, or a member of the stockholder’s
family enumerated in the I.R.C. § 318, if the stockholder and the members of
the stockholder’s family own directly, indirectly, beneficially or
constructively, in the aggregate, at least 50% of the value of the taxpayer’s
outstanding stock;
         (b)   A stockholder, or a stockholder’s partnership, estate, trust or
corporation, if the stockholder and the stockholder’s partnerships, estates,
trusts or corporations own directly, indirectly, beneficially or
constructively, in the aggregate, at least 50% of the value of the taxpayer’s
outstanding stock;
         (c)   A corporation, or a party related to the corporation in a manner
that would require an attribution of stock from the corporation to the party or
from the party to the corporation under division (d) below, provided the
taxpayer owns directly, indirectly, beneficially or constructively, at least
50% of the value of the corporation’s outstanding stock; and
         (d)   The attribution rules described in the I.R.C. § 318 apply for
the purpose of determining whether the ownership requirements in divisions (a)
to (c) above have been met.
      RELATED MEMBER. A person that, with respect to the taxpayer during all or
any portion of the taxable year, is either a related entity, a component member
as defined in the I.R.C. § 1563(b), or a person to or from whom there is
attribution of stock ownership in accordance with the I.R.C. § 1563(e) except,
for purposes of determining whether a person is a related member under this
division, 20% shall be substituted for 5% wherever 5% appears in the I.R.C. §
1563(e).
      RESIDENT. An individual who is domiciled in the city as determined under
§
37.036.
      S CORPORATION. A person that has made an election under subchapter S of
Chapter 1 of Subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code, being 26 U.S.C. §§ 1361
through 1379, for its taxable year.
      SCHEDULE C. Internal Revenue Service Schedule C (form 1040) filed by a
taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      SCHEDULE E. Internal Revenue Service Schedule E (form 1040) filed by a
taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      SCHEDULE F. Internal Revenue Service Schedule F (form 1040) filed by a
taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      SINGLE-MEMBER LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY. A limited liability company that
has one direct member.
      SMALL EMPLOYER. Any employer that had total revenue of less than $500,000
during the preceding taxable year. For purposes of this division, TOTAL REVENUE
means receipts of any type or kind, including, but not limited to, sales
receipts; payments; rents; profits; gains, dividends and other investment
income; commissions; premiums; money; property; grants; contributions;
donations; gifts; program service revenue; patient service revenue; premiums;
fees, including premium fees and service fees; tuition payments; unrelated
business revenue; reimbursements; any type of payment from a governmental unit,
including grants and other allocations; and any other similar receipts reported
for federal income tax purposes or under generally accepted accounting
principles. SMALL EMPLOYER does not include the federal government; any state
government, including any state agency or instrumentality; any political
subdivision; or any entity treated as a government for financial accounting and
reporting purposes.
      TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The individual charged with direct responsibility for
administration of an income tax levied by the city in accordance with this
chapter.
      TAX RETURN PREPARER. Any individual described in the I.R.C. § 7701(a)(36)
and 26 C.F.R. 301.7701-15.
      TAXABLE YEAR. The corresponding tax reporting period as prescribed for
the taxpayer under the Internal Revenue Code.
      TAXPAYER.
         (a)   TAXPAYER means a person subject to a tax levied on income by the
city in accordance with this chapter. TAXPAYER does not include a grantor trust
or, except as provided in division (2)(a) below, a disregarded entity.
         (b)   1.   A single member limited liability company that is a
disregarded entity for federal tax purposes may be a separate taxpayer from its
single member in all the state municipal corporations in which it either filed
as a separate taxpayer or did not file for its taxable year ending in 2003, if
all of the following conditions are met.
               a.   The limited liability company’s single member is also a
limited liability company.
               b.   The limited liability company and its single member were
formed and doing business in one or more state municipal corporations for at
least five years before January 1, 2004.
               c.   Not later than December 31, 2004, the limited liability
company and its single member each made an election to be treated as a separate
taxpayer under R.C. § 718.01(L) as this section existed on December 31, 2004.
               d.   The limited liability company was not formed for the
purpose of evading or reducing the state municipal corporation income tax
liability of the limited liability company or its single member.
               e.   The state municipal corporation that was the primary place
of business of the sole member of the limited liability company consented to
the election.
            2.   For purposes of division (2)(a)5. above, was the primary place
of business of a limited liability company if, for the limited liability
company’s taxable year ending in 2003, its income tax liability was greater in
that municipal corporation than in any other municipal corporation in the
state, and that tax liability to that municipal corporation for its taxable
year ending in 2003 was at least $400,000.
      TAXPAYERS’ RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES. The rights provided to taxpayers
in R.C. §§ 718.11, 718.12 , 718.19, 718.23, 718.36, 718.37, 718.38, 57351 and
5717.03 and any corresponding ordinances of the city, and the responsibilities
of taxpayers to file, report, withhold, remit and pay municipal income tax and
otherwise comply with R.C. Chapter 718 and resolutions, ordinances and rules
adopted by the city for the imposition and administration of its municipal
income tax.
      VIDEO LOTTERY TERMINAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3770.21.
      VIDEO LOTTERY TERMINAL SALES AGENT. A lottery sales agent licensed under
R.C. Chapter 3770 to conduct video lottery terminals on behalf of the state,
pursuant to R.C. § 3770.21.
(Prior Code, § 35.03.01)
Statutory reference:
   Related definitions, see R.C. § 718.01
§ 37.003 ADOPTION OF RULES.
   Nothing in this chapter prohibits the legislative authority of a municipal
corporation, or a Tax Administrator pursuant to authority granted to the
Administrator by resolution or ordinance, to adopt rules to administer an
income tax imposed by the municipal corporation in accordance with this
chapter. Such rules shall not conflict with or be inconsistent with any
provision of this chapter. All rules adopted under this section shall be
published and posted on the internet as described in R.C. § 718.07.
(R.C. § 718.30) (Prior Code, § 35.20.01)
§ 37.004 MANDATORY REGISTRATION.
   (A)   In the case of residents, it is incumbent upon the taxpayer to
register with the city’s income tax office within 30 days after the taxpayer
becomes a resident of the city. Registration shall be accomplished in a manner
prescribed by the City Auditor.
   (B)   In the case of all employers, contractors and subcontractors that do
work within the city shall, within 30 days of beginning that work, register
with the city in a manner prescribed by the City Auditor.
   (C)   Any person subject to divisions (A) and (B) above, and who fail to
register as required, are subject to the penalties in §
37.999.
(Prior Code, § 35.21.01) Penalty, see §
37.999
§ 37.005 RENTAL AND LEASED PROPERTY.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, TENANT means:
      (1)   If there is a written lease or rental agreement, the person or
persons who sign the written lease or rental agreement with the owner or the
real property or the owner’s representative;
      (2)   If there is an oral lease or rental agreement or a month to month
rental or lease, the person or persons with whom the owner enters into the oral
lease or rental agreement; and
      (3)   In the event the party entering the lease or rental agreement with
the owner or its representative is a business other than sole proprietorship,
the TENANT is the business entity as registered with the state.
   (B)   On or before the end of each month (January 31 and July 31) following
the end of each semi-annual calendar period commencing with July 2016, all real
property owners of rental or leased residential, agricultural, commercial or
industrial premises, shall file with the income tax office a report showing the
names and addresses of each such tenant who occupies said premises within the
city limits.
   (C)   For tenants who have vacated a rental or leased residential,
agricultural, commercial or industrial premises located within the city, the
semi-annual report shall also include the identification of the tenant vacating
and the date of the tenant vacating said premises.
   (D)   For tenants who are new tenants that rented or leased residential,
agricultural, commercial or industrial premises located within the city, the
semi-annual report shall also include the identification of the new tenant and
the date of the tenant starting occupation of the rental or lease premises.
   (E)   Any property owner or person that violates one or more of the
following shall be subject to §
37.999
      (1)   Fails, refuses or neglects to timely file a written report required
by division (A) above;
      (2)   Makes an incomplete or intentionally false written report required
by division (A) above;
      (3)   Fails to appear before the Tax Administrator or any duly authorized
agent and to produce and disclose any tenant information pursuant to any order
or subpoena of the Tax Administrator as authorized in this section; or
      (4)   Fails to comply with the provisions of this section or any order or
subpoena of the Tax Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 35.22.01) Penalty, see §
37.999
§ 37.006 COLLECTION OF TAX AFTER TERMINATION OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   This chapter shall continue in full force and effect insofar as the
levy of taxes is concerned until repealed, and insofar as the collection of
taxes levied hereunder and actions and proceedings for collecting any tax so
levied or enforcing any provisions of this chapter are concerned, it shall
continue in full force and effect until all of the taxes levied in the
aforesaid period are fully paid and any and all suits and prosecutions for the
collection of taxes or for the punishment of violations of this chapter have
been fully terminated, subject to the limitations contained in §
37.162.
   (B)   Annual returns due for all or any part of the last effective year of
this chapter shall be due on the date provided in Chapter 35.091 as though the
same were continuing.
(Prior Code, § 35.97.01)
AUTHORITY TO LEVY TAX; PURPOSES OF TAX; RATE
§ 37.020 AUTHORITY TO LEVY TAX.
   (A)   The tax on income and the withholding tax established by this chapter
are authorized by Article XVIII, § 3 of the state Constitution. The tax on
income and the withholding tax established by this chapter are deemed to be
levied in accordance with, and to be consistent with, the provisions and
limitations of R.C. § 718. This Title is deemed to incorporate the provisions
of R.C. § 718.
   (B)   The tax is an annual tax levied on the income of every person residing
in or earning or receiving income in the city, and shall be measured by
municipal taxable income. The city shall tax income at a uniform rate. The tax
is levied on municipal taxable income, as defined herein.
(R.C. § 718.04) (Prior Code, § 35.01.01)
§ 37.021 PURPOSE OF TAX; RATE.
   To provide funds for the purposes of general municipal operations,
maintenance, new equipment, extension and enlargement of municipal services and
facilities and capital improvements of the city, there shall be, and is hereby
levied, a tax on salaries, qualifying wages, commissions and other
compensation, and on net profits as hereinafter provided. Effective January 1,
2016, the tax shall be levied at a rate of 1.75%.
(R.C. § 718.04) (Prior Code, § 35.01.02)
§ 37.022 ALLOCATION OF FUNDS.
   The funds collected under the provisions of this chapter at the rate of
1.75% shall be allocated as follows: 1.5% percent shall be allocated to the
General Fund and 0.25% shall be allocated to the Capital Improvement Fund.
(Prior Code, § 35.01.03)
§ 37.023 STATEMENT OF PROCEDURAL HISTORY; STATE MANDATED CHANGES TO MUNICIPAL
INCOME TAX.
   Significant and wide-ranging amendments to R.C. § 718 were enacted by Am.
Sub H.B. 5, passed by the 130th General Assembly, and signed by Governor Kasich
on December 19, 2014, and H.B. 5 required municipal corporations to conform to
and adopt the provisions of R.C. § 718 in order to have the authority to
impose, enforce, administer and collect a municipal income tax. As mandated by
H.B. 5, municipal income tax Ordinance 2015-XX, effective January 1, 2016,
comprehensively amends §§
36.15 through
36.31 and Chapter 15 in accordance with the provisions of R.C. § 718 to allow
the city to continue the income tax and withholding tax administration and
collection efforts on behalf of the city.
(Prior Code, § 35.01.04)
INCOME SUBJECT TO TAX FOR INDIVIDUALS
§ 37.035 DETERMINING MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME FOR INDIVIDUALS.
   (A)   Municipal taxable income for a resident of the city is calculated as
follows: “Income” reduced by “exempt income” to the extent such exempt income
is otherwise included in income, reduced by allowable employee business expense
deduction as found in §
37.002 in division (b) of the definition for MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME equals
“municipal taxable income”.
      (1)   INCOME is defined in §
37.002.
         (a)   QUALIFYING WAGES is defined in §
37.002.
         (b)   “Net profit” is included in INCOME, and is defined in §
37.002. This section also provides that the net operating loss carryforward
shall be calculated and deducted in the same manner as provided in division (h)
of the definition for ADJUSTED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME in §
37.002. Treatment of net profits received by an individual taxpayer from rental
real estate is provided in §
37.065(E).
         (c)   Section
37.002 INCOME provides the following: offsetting and net operating loss
carryforward treatment in (14)(A)(ii)(a); resident’s distributive share of net
profit from pass through entity treatment in the definition for INCOME division
(1)(b); treatment of S corporation distributive share of net profit in the
hands of the shareholder in the definition for INCOME division (1)(c);
restriction of amount of loss permitted to be carried forward for use by
taxpayer in a subsequent taxable year in the definition for INCOME division
(a)4.
         (d)   PASS THROUGH ENTITY is defined in §
37.002.
      (2)   EXEMPT INCOME is defined in §
37.002.
      (3)   Allowable employee business expense deduction is described in
division (b) of the definition for MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME in §
37.002, and is subject to the limitations provided in that section.
   (B)   “Municipal taxable income” for a nonresident of the city is calculated
as follows:
      (1)   “Income” reduced by “exempt income” to the extent such exempt
income is otherwise included in income, as applicable, apportioned or sitused
to the city as provided in §
37.065, reduced by allowable employee business expense deduction as found in §
37.002 equals “municipal taxable income”.
         (a)   “Income” is defined in §
37.002.
            1.   “Qualifying wages” is defined in §
37.002.
            2.   “Net profit” is included in “income”, and is defined in §
37.002. This section also provides that the net operating loss carryforward
shall be calculated and deducted in the same manner as provided in the
definition for ADJUSTED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME of § 3.002.
            3.   “Net profit” for a nonresident individual includes any net
profit of the nonresident, but excludes the distributive share of net profit or
loss of only pass through entity owned directly or indirectly by the
nonresident.
            4.   “Pass-through entity” is defined in §
37.002.
         (b)   “Exempt income” is defined in §
37.002.
         (c)   “Apportioned or sitused to the city as provided in §
37.065” includes the apportionment of net profit income attributable to work
done or services performed in city. Treatment of net profits received by an
individual taxpayer from rental real estate is provided in §
37.065(E).
         (d)   “Allowable employee business expense deduction”, as described in
the definition for MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME in division (b) of §
37.002, is subject to the limitations provided in that section. For a
nonresident of the city, the deduction is limited to the extent the expenses
are related to the performance of personal services by the nonresident in the
city.
         (e)   PRE-2017 NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYFORWARD is defined in §
37.002.
(Prior Code, § 35.04.01)
§ 37.036 DOMICILE.
   (A)   (1)   An individual is presumed to be domiciled in a municipal
corporation for all or part of a taxable year if the individual was domiciled
in the municipal corporation on the last day of the immediately preceding
taxable year or if the Tax Administrator reasonably concludes that the
individual is domiciled in the municipal corporation for all or part of the
taxable year.
      (2)   An individual may rebut the presumption of domicile described in
division (A)(1) above if the individual establishes by a preponderance of the
evidence that the individual was not domiciled in the municipal corporation for
all or part of the taxable year.
   (B)   For the purpose of determining whether an individual is domiciled in a
municipal corporation for all or part of a taxable year, only the following
factors shall be considered:
      (1)   The location of financial institutions in which the individual or
the individual’s spouse have any accounts, including, but not limited to,
checking, savings, certificates of deposit or individual retirement accounts;
      (2)   The location of issuers of credit cards to the individual or the
individual’s spouse or of any other persons making installment loans to the
individual or the individual’s spouse;
      (3)   The location of institutional lenders which have made loans to, or
which are guaranteed by, the individual or the individual’s spouse;
      (4)   The location of investment facilities, brokerage firms, realtors,
financial advisors or consultants used by the individual or the individual’s
spouse;
      (5)   The location of either the insurance company that issued or the
insurance agent that sold any policy of insurance to the individual or the
individual’s spouse, including, but not limited to, life, health, disability,
automobile or homeowners’ insurance;
      (6)   The location of law firms, accounting firms and similar
professionals utilized by the individual or the individual’s spouse for legal,
tax, accounting, financial or retirement services;
      (7)   The location of physicians, dentists, osteopaths, optometrists or
other health care providers, or veterinarians utilized by the individual or the
individual’s spouse;
      (8)   The location of organizations described in I.R.C. § 501(c) to which
the individual or the individual’s spouse make contributions or other payments
or in which they participate as a congregant, member, board member, committee
member, adviser or consultant;
      (9)   The location of burial plots owned by the individual or the
individual’s spouse;
      (10)   The location of business ventures or business entities in which
the individual or the individual’s spouse has a more than 25% ownership
interest or in which the individual exercises, either individually or jointly,
significant control over the affairs of the venture or entity;
      (11)   The recitation of residency or domicile in a will, trust or other
estate planning document;
      (12)   The location of the individual’s friends; dependents, as defined
in I.R.C. § 152; and family members other than the individual’s spouse, if the
individual is not legally separated from the individual’s spouse under a decree
of divorce or separate maintenance as provided in the I.R.C. § 7703(a)(2);
      (13)   The location of educational institutions attended by the
individual’s dependents as defined in I.R.C. § 152, to the extent that tuition
paid to such educational institution is based on the residency of the
individual or the individual’s spouse in the municipal corporation where the
educational institution is located;
      (14)   The location of trustees, executors, guardians or other
fiduciaries named in estate planning documents of the individual or the
individual’s spouse;
      (15)   The location of all businesses at which the individual or the
individual’s spouse makes purchases of tangible personal property;
      (16)   The location where the individual married;
      (17)   The location or identity of recipients of political contributions
made by the individual or the individual’s spouse;
      (18)   The number of contact periods the individual has with the
municipal corporation. For the purposes of this division, an individual has one
“contact period” with a municipal corporation if the individual is away
overnight from the individual’s abode located outside of the municipal
corporation and while away overnight from that abode spends at least some
portion, however minimal, of each of two consecutive days in the municipal
corporation.
      (19)   The individual’s domicile in other taxable years;
      (20)   The location at which the individual is registered to vote;
      (21)   The address on the individual’s driver’s license;
      (22)   The location of real estate for which the individual claimed a
property tax exemption or reduction allowed on the basis of the individual’s
residence or domicile;
      (23)   The location and value of abodes owned or leased by the
individual;
      (24)   Declarations, written or oral, made by the individual regarding
the individual’s residency; and
      (25)   The primary location at which the individual is employed.
(R.C. § 718.012) (Prior Code, § 35.04.02)
§ 37.037 EXEMPTION FOR MEMBER OR EMPLOYEE OF GENERAL ASSEMBLY AND CERTAIN
JUDGES.
   (A)   No municipal corporation other than the municipal corporation of
residence shall levy a tax on the income of any member or employee of the state
general assembly, including the lieutenant governor, which income is received
as a result of services rendered as such member or employee and is paid from
appropriated funds of this state.
   (B)   No municipal corporation other than the municipal corporation of
residence and the City of Columbus shall levy a tax on the income of the chief
justice or a justice of the supreme court received as a result of services
rendered as the chief justice or justice. No municipal corporation other than
the municipal corporation of residence shall levy a tax on the income of a
judge sitting by assignment of the chief justice or on the income of a district
court of appeals judge sitting in multiple locations within the district,
received as a result of services rendered as a judge.
(R.C. § 718.50) (Prior Code, § 35.04.03)
COLLECTION AT SOURCE
§ 37.050 WITHHOLDING FROM WAGES.
   (A)   (1)   Each employer, agent of an employer or other payer located or
doing business in a municipal corporation that imposes a tax on income in
accordance with this chapter shall withhold from each employee an amount equal
to the qualifying wages of the employee earned by the employee in the municipal
corporation multiplied by the applicable rate of the municipal corporation’s
income tax, except for qualifying wages for which withholding is not required
under R.C. § 718.011 or division (D) or (F) below. An employer, agent of an
employer or other payer shall deduct and withhold the tax from qualifying wages
on the date that the employer, agent or other payer, directly, indirectly or
constructively, pays the qualifying wages to, or credits the qualifying wages
to the benefit of, the employee.
      (2)   In addition to withholding the amounts required under division (A)
(1) above, an employer, agent of an employer or other payer may also deduct and
withhold, on the request of an employee, taxes for the municipal corporation in
which the employee is a resident.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) below, an employer, agent
of an employer or other payer shall remit to the Tax Administrator of a
municipal corporation the greater of the income taxes deducted and withheld or
the income taxes required to be deducted and withheld by the employer, agent or
other payer according to the following schedule.
         (a)   Taxes required to be deducted and withheld shall be remitted
monthly to the Tax Administrator if the total taxes deducted and withheld or
required to be deducted and withheld by the employer, agent or other payer on
behalf of the municipal corporation in the preceding calendar year exceeded
$2,399, or if the total amount of taxes deducted and withheld or required to be
deducted and withheld on behalf of the municipal corporation in any month of
the preceding calendar quarter exceeded $200. Payments under this division (B)
(1)(a) shall be made to the Tax Administrator not later than 15 days after the
last day of each month.
         (b)   Any employer, agent of an employer or other payer not required
to make payments under division (B)(1)(a) above of taxes required to be
deducted and withheld shall make quarterly payments to the tax administrator
not later than the last day of the month following the last day of each
calendar quarter.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (B)(1) above, a municipal corporation may
require, by resolution, ordinance or rule, an employer, agent of an employer or
other payer to do any of the following:
         (a)   Remit taxes deducted and withheld semimonthly to the Tax
Administrator if the total taxes deducted and withheld or required to be
deducted and withheld on behalf of the municipal corporation in the preceding
calendar year exceeded $11,999, or if the total amount of taxes deducted and
withheld or required to be deducted and withheld on behalf of the municipal
corporation in any month of the preceding calendar year exceeded $1,000. The
payment under this division (B)(2)(a) shall be made to the Tax Administrator
not later than one of the following:
            1.   If the taxes were deducted and withheld or required to be
deducted and withheld during the first 15 days of a month, the third banking
day after the fifteenth day of that month; and
            2.   If the taxes were deducted and withheld or required to be
deducted and withheld after the fifteenth day of a month and before the first
day of the immediately following month, the third banking day after the last
day of that month.
         (b)   Make payment by electronic funds transfer to the Tax
Administrator of all taxes deducted and withheld on behalf of the municipal
corporation if the employer, agent of an employer or other payer is required to
make payments electronically for the purpose of paying federal taxes withheld
on payments to employees under I.R.C. § 6302, 26 C.F.R. 31.6302-1, or any other
federal statute or regulation. The payment of tax by electronic funds transfer
under this division does not affect an employer’s, agent’s or other payer’s
obligation to file any return as required under this section.
   (C)   An employer, agent of an employer or other payer shall make and file a
return showing the amount of tax withheld by the employer, agent or other payer
from the qualifying wages of each employee and remitted to the Tax
Administrator. Unless the Tax Administrator requires all individual taxpayers
to file a tax return under R.C. § 718.05, a return filed by an employer, agent
or other payer under this division shall be accepted by a Tax Administrator and
municipal corporation as the return required of an employee whose sole income
subject to the tax under this chapter is the qualifying wages reported by the
employee’s employer, agent of an employer or other payer.
   (D)   An employer, agent of an employer or other payer is not required to
withhold municipal income tax with respect to an individual’s disqualifying
disposition of an incentive stock option if, at the time of the disqualifying
disposition, the individual is not an employee of either the corporation with
respect to whose stock the option has been issued or of such corporation’s
successor entity.
   (E)   (1)   An employee is not relieved from liability for a tax by the
failure of the employer, agent of an employer or other payer to withhold the
tax as required under this chapter or by the employer’s, agent’s or other
payer’s exemption from the requirement to withhold the tax.
      (2)   The failure of an employer, agent of an employer or other payer to
remit to the municipal corporation the tax withheld relieves the employee from
liability for that tax unless the employee colluded with the employer, agent or
other payer in connection with the failure to remit the tax withheld.
   (F)   Compensation deferred before June 26, 2003 is not subject to any
municipal corporation income tax or municipal income tax withholding
requirement to the extent the deferred compensation does not constitute
qualifying wages at the time the deferred compensation is paid or distributed.
   (G)   Each employer, agent of an employer or other payer required to
withhold taxes is liable for the payment of that amount required to be
withheld, whether or not such taxes have been withheld, and such amount shall
be deemed to be held in trust for the municipal corporation until such time as
the withheld amount is remitted to the Tax Administrator.
   (H)   On or before the last day of February of each year, an employer shall
file a withholding reconciliation return with the Tax Administrator listing the
names, addresses and Social Security numbers of all employees from whose
qualifying wages tax was withheld or should have been withheld for the
municipal corporation during the preceding calendar year, the amount of tax
withheld, if any, from each such employee, the total amount of qualifying wages
paid to such employee during the preceding calendar year, the name of every
other municipal corporation for which tax was withheld or should have been
withheld from such employee during the preceding calendar year, any other
information required for federal income tax reporting purposes on Internal
Revenue Service form W-2 or its equivalent form with respect to such employee,
and other information as may be required by the Tax Administrator.
   (I)   (1)   The officer or the employee of the employer, agent of an
employer or other payer with control or direct supervision of or charged with
the responsibility for withholding the tax or filing the reports and making
payments as required by this section, shall be personally liable for a failure
to file a report or pay the tax due as required by this section.
      (2)   The dissolution of an employer, agent of an employer or other payer
does not discharge the officer’s or employee’s liability for a failure of the
employer, agent of an employer or other payer to file returns or pay any tax
due.
   (J)   An employer is required to deduct and withhold municipal income tax on
tips and gratuities received by the employer’s employees and constituting
qualifying wages only to the extent that the tips and gratuities are under the
employer’s control. For the purposes of this division, a tip or gratuity is
under the employer’s control if the tip or gratuity is paid by the customer to
the employer for subsequent remittance to the employee, or if the customer pays
the tip or gratuity by credit card, debit card or other electronic means.
   (K)   A Tax Administrator shall consider any tax withheld by an employer at
the request of an employee when such tax is not otherwise required to be
withheld by this chapter to be tax required to be withheld and remitted for the
purposes of this section.
(R.C. § 718.03) (Prior Code, § 35.05.01)
§ 37.051 OCCASIONAL ENTRANT.
   (A)   (1)   As used in this section:
         EMPLOYER. Includes a person that is a related member to or of an
employer.
         PROFESSIONAL ATHLETE. An athlete who performs services in a
professional athletic event for wages or other remuneration.
         PROFESSIONAL ENTERTAINER. A person who performs services in the
professional performing arts for wages or other remuneration on a per-event
basis.
         PUBLIC FIGURE. A person of prominence who performs services at
discrete events, such as speeches, public appearances or similar events, for
wages or other remuneration on a per-event basis.
         FIXED LOCATION. A permanent place of doing business in this state,
such as an office, warehouse, storefront or similar location owned or
controlled by an employer.
         WORKSITE LOCATION. A construction site or other temporary worksite in
this state at which the employer provides services for more than 20 days during
the calendar year. WORKSITE LOCATION does not include the home of an employee.
         PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK.
            1.   The fixed location to which an employee is required to report
for employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis. If the employee is not
required to report for employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis to a
fixed location, PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK means the worksite location in this
state to which the employee is required to report for employment duties on a
regular and ordinary basis. If the employee is not required to report for
employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis to a fixed location or
worksite location, PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK means the location in this state at
which the employee spends the greatest number of days in a calendar year
performing services for or on behalf of the employee’s employer.
            2.   If there is not a single municipal corporation in which the
employee spent the “greatest number of days in a calendar year” performing
services for or on behalf of the employer, but instead there are two or more
municipal corporations in which the employee spent an identical number of days
that is greater than the number of days the employee spent in any other
municipal corporation, the employer shall allocate any of the employee’s
qualifying wages subject to division (B)(1)(a) below among those two or more
municipal corporations. The allocation shall be made using any fair and
reasonable method, including, but not limited to, an equal allocation among
such municipal corporations or an allocation based upon the time spent or sales
made by the employee in each such municipal corporation. A municipal
corporation to which qualifying wages are allocated under this division shall
be the employee’s PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK with respect to those qualifying
wages for the purposes of this section.
      (2)   For the purposes of this division, the location at which an
employee spends a particular day shall be determined in accordance with
division (B)(2) below, except that “location” shall be substituted for
“municipal corporation” wherever “municipal corporation” appears in that
division.
   (B)   (1)   Subject to divisions (C), (E), (F) and (G) below, an employer is
not required to withhold municipal income tax on qualifying wages paid to an
employee for the performance of personal services in a municipal corporation
that imposes such a tax if the employee performed such services in the
municipal corporation on 20 or fewer days in a calendar year, unless one of the
following conditions applies.
         (a)   The employee’s principal place of work is located in the
municipal corporation.
         (b)   The employee performed services at one or more presumed worksite
locations in the municipal corporation. For the purposes of this division (b),
PRESUMED WORKSITE LOCATION means a construction site or other temporary
worksite in this state at which the employer provides services that can
reasonably be expected by the employer to last more than 20 days in a calendar
year. Services can “reasonably be expected by the employer to last more than 20
days” if either of the following applies at the time the services commence:
            1.   The nature of the services are such that it will require more
than 20 days of actual services to complete the services; and
            2.   The agreement between the employer and its customer to perform
services at a location requires the employer to perform actual services at the
location for more than 20 days.
         (c)   The employee is a resident of the municipal corporation and has
requested that the employer withhold tax from the employee’s qualifying wages
as provided in R.C. § 718.03.
         (d)   The employee is a professional athlete, professional entertainer
or public figure, and the qualifying wages are paid for the performance of
services in the employee’s capacity as a professional athlete, professional
entertainer or public figure.
      (2)   For the purposes of division (B)(1) above, an employee shall be
considered to have spent a day performing services in a municipal corporation
only if the employee spent more time performing services for or on behalf of
the employer in that municipal corporation than in any other municipal
corporation on that day. For the purposes of determining the amount of time an
employee spent in a particular location, the time spent performing one or more
of the following activities shall be considered to have been spent at the
employee’s principal place of work:
         (a)   Traveling to the location at which the employee will first
perform services for the employer for the day;
         (b)   Traveling from a location at which the employee was performing
services for the employer to any other location;
         (c)   Traveling from any location to another location in order to pick
up or load, for the purpose of transportation or delivery, property that has
been purchased, sold, assembled, fabricated, repaired, refurbished, processed,
remanufactured or improved by the employee’s employer;
         (d)   Transporting or delivering property described in division (B)(2)
(c) above, provided that, upon delivery of the property, the employee does not
temporarily or permanently affix the property to real estate owned, used or
controlled by a person other than the employee’s employer; and
         (e)   Traveling from the location at which the employee makes the
employee’s final delivery or pick-up for the day to either the employee’s
principal place of work or a location at which the employee will not perform
services for the employer.
   (C)   If the principal place of work of an employee is located in a
municipal corporation that imposes an income tax in accordance with this
chapter, the exception from withholding requirements described in division (B)
(1) above shall apply only if, with respect to the employee’s qualifying wages
described in that division, the employer withholds and remits tax on such
qualifying wages to the municipal corporation in which the employee’s principal
place of work is located.
   (D)   (1)   Except as provided in division (D)(2) below, if, during a
calendar year, the number of days an employee spends performing personal
services in a municipal corporation exceeds the 20-day threshold described in
division (B)(1) above, the employer shall withhold and remit tax to that
municipal corporation for any subsequent days in that calendar year on which
the employer pays qualifying wages to the employee for personal services
performed in that municipal corporation. An employer required to begin
withholding tax for a municipal corporation under division (D)(1) above may
elect to withhold tax for that municipal corporation for the first 20 days on
which the employer paid qualifying wages to the employee for personal services
performed in that municipal corporation. If an employer makes the election
described in division (D)(2) above, the taxes withheld and paid by such an
employer during those first 20 days to the municipal corporation in which the
employee’s principal place of work is located are refundable to the employee.
   (E)   Without regard to the number of days in a calendar year on which an
employee performs personal services in any municipal corporation, an employer
shall withhold municipal income tax on all of the employee’s qualifying wages
for a taxable year and remit that tax only to the municipal corporation in
which the employer’s fixed location is located if the employer qualifies as a
small employer as defined in R.C. § 718.01. To determine whether an employer
qualifies as a small employer for a taxable year, a tax administrator may
require the employer to provide the Tax Administrator with the employer’s
federal income tax return for the preceding taxable year.
   (F)   Divisions (B)(1) and (D) above shall not apply to the extent that a
Tax Administrator and an employer enter into an agreement regarding the manner
in which the employer shall comply with the requirements of R.C. § 718.03.
   (G)   In the case of a person performing personal services at a petroleum
refinery located in a municipal corporation that imposes a tax on income, an
employer is not required to withhold municipal income tax on the qualifying
wages of such a person if the person performs those services on 12 or fewer
days in a calendar year, unless the principal place of work of the employer is
located in another municipal corporation in this state that imposes a tax
applying to compensation paid to the person for services performed on those
days and the person is not liable to that other municipal corporation for tax
on the compensation paid for such services. For the purposes of this division,
a PETROLEUM REFINERY is a facility with a standard industrial classification
code facility classification of 2911, petroleum refining. Notwithstanding
division (D) above, if, during a calendar year, the number of days an
individual performs personal services at a petroleum refinery exceeds 12, the
employer shall withhold tax for the municipal corporation for the first 12 days
for which the employer paid qualifying wages to the individual and for all
subsequent days in the calendar year on which the individual performed services
at the refinery.
(R.C. § 718.011) (Prior Code, § 35.05.02)
INCOME SUBJECT TO NET PROFIT TAX
§ 37.065 NET PROFIT; INCOME SUBJECT TO NET PROFIT TAX; ALTERNATIVE
APPORTIONMENT.
   This section applies to any taxpayer engaged in a business or profession in
a municipal corporation that imposes an income tax in accordance with this
chapter, unless the taxpayer is an individual who resides in the municipal
corporation or the taxpayer is an electric company, combined company or
telephone company that is subject to and required to file reports under R.C.
Chapter 5745.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) below, net profit from a
business or profession conducted both within and without the boundaries of a
municipal corporation shall be considered as having a taxable situs in the
municipal corporation for purposes of municipal income taxation in the same
proportion as the average ratio of the following:
      (1)   (a)   The average original cost of the real property and tangible
personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in the business or profession
in the municipal corporation during the taxable period to the average original
cost of all of the real and tangible personal property owned or used by the
taxpayer in the business or profession during the same period, wherever
situated; and
         (b)   As used in division (A)(1)(a) above, tangible personal or real
property shall include property rented or leased by the taxpayer and the value
of such property shall be determined by multiplying the annual rental thereon
by eight.
      (2)   Wages, salaries and other compensation paid during the taxable
period to individuals employed in the business or profession for services
performed in the municipal corporation to wages, salaries and other
compensation paid during the same period to individuals employed in the
business or profession, wherever the individual’s services are performed,
excluding compensation from which taxes are not required to be withheld under
R.C. § 718.011;
      (3)   Total gross receipts of the business or profession from sales and
rentals made and services performed during the taxable period in the municipal
corporation to total gross receipts of the business or profession during the
same period from sales, rentals and services, wherever made or performed.
   (B)   (1)   If the apportionment factors described in division (A) above do
not fairly represent the extent of a taxpayer’s business activity in a
municipal corporation, the taxpayer may request, or the Tax Administrator of
the municipal corporation may require, that the taxpayer use, with respect to
all or any portion of the income of the taxpayer, an alternative apportionment
method involving one or more of the following:
         (a)   Separate accounting;
         (b)   The exclusion of one or more of the factors;
         (c)   The inclusion of one or more additional factors that would
provide for a more fair apportionment of the income of the taxpayer to the
municipal corporation; and
         (d)   A modification of one or more of the factors.
      (2)   A taxpayer request to use an alternative apportionment method shall
be in writing and shall accompany a tax return, timely filed appeal of an
assessment or timely filed amended tax return. The taxpayer may use the
requested alternative method unless the Tax Administrator denies the request in
an assessment issued within the period prescribed by R.C. § 718.12(A). A Tax
Administrator may require a taxpayer to use an alternative apportionment method
as described in division (B)(1) above only by issuing an assessment to the
taxpayer within the period prescribed by R.C. § 718.12(A).
      (4)   Nothing in this division (B) nullifies or otherwise affects any
alternative apportionment arrangement approved by a Tax Administrator or
otherwise agreed upon by both the Tax Administrator and taxpayer before January
1, 2016.
   (C)   As used in division (A)(2) above, WAGES, SALARIES and OTHER
COMPENSATION includes only wages, salaries or other compensation paid to an
employee for services performed at any of the following locations:
      (1)   A location that is owned, controlled or used by, rented to or under
the possession of one of the following:
         (a)   The employer;
         (b)   A vendor, customer, client or patient of the employer, or a
related member of such a vendor, customer, client or patient; or
         (c)   A vendor, customer, client or patient of a person described in
division (C)(1)(b) above, or a related member of such a vendor, customer,
client or patient.
      (2)   Any location at which a trial, appeal, hearing, investigation,
inquiry, review, court-martial or similar administrative, judicial or
legislative matter or proceeding is being conducted, provided that the
compensation is paid for services performed for, or on behalf of, the employer
or that the employee’s presence at the location directly or indirectly benefits
the employer;
      (3)   Any other location, if the Tax Administrator determines that the
employer directed the employee to perform the services at the other location in
lieu of a location described in division (C)(1) or (C)(2) above solely in order
to avoid or reduce the employer’s municipal income tax liability. If a Tax
Administrator makes such a determination, the employer may dispute the
determination by establishing, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the Tax
Administrator’s determination was unreasonable.
   (D)   For the purposes of division (A)(3) above, receipts from sales and
rentals made and services performed shall be sitused to a municipal corporation
as follows.
      (1)   Gross receipts from the sale of tangible personal property shall be
sitused to the municipal corporation only if, regardless of where title passes,
the property meets either of the following criteria:
         (a)   The property is shipped to or delivered within the municipal
corporation from a stock of goods located within the municipal corporation; and
         (b)   The property is delivered within the municipal corporation from
a location outside the municipal corporation, provided the taxpayer is
regularly engaged through its own employees in the solicitation or promotion of
sales within such municipal corporation and the sales result from such
solicitation or promotion.
      (2)   Gross receipts from the sale of services shall be sitused to the
municipal corporation to the extent that such services are performed in the
municipal corporation.
      (3)   To the extent included in income, gross receipts from the sale of
real property located in the municipal corporation shall be sitused to the
municipal corporation.
      (4)   To the extent included in income, gross receipts from rents and
royalties from real property located in the municipal corporation shall be
sitused to the municipal corporation.
      (5)   Gross receipts from rents and royalties from tangible personal
property shall be sitused to the municipal corporation based upon the extent to
which the tangible personal property is used in the municipal corporation.
   (E)   (1)   The net profit received by an individual taxpayer from the
rental of real estate owned directly by the individual or by a disregarded
entity owned by the individual shall be subject to tax only by the municipal
corporation in which the property generating the net profit is located and the
municipal corporation in which the individual taxpayer that receives the net
profit resides.
      (2)   A municipal corporation shall allow such taxpayers to elect to use
separate accounting for the purpose of calculating net profit sitused under
this division to the municipal corporation in which the property is located.
   (F)   (1)   Except as provided in division (F)(2) below, commissions
received by a real estate agent or broker relating to the sale, purchase or
lease of real estate shall be sitused to the municipal corporation in which the
real estate is located. Net profit reported by the real estate agent or broker
shall be allocated to a municipal corporation based upon the ratio of the
commissions the agent or broker received from the sale, purchase or lease of
real estate located in the municipal corporation to the commissions received
from the sale, purchase or lease of real estate everywhere in the taxable year.
      (2)   An individual who is a resident of a municipal corporation that
imposes a municipal income tax shall report the individual’s net profit from
all real estate activity on the individual’s annual tax return for that
municipal corporation. The individual may claim a credit for taxes the
individual paid on such net profit to another municipal corporation to the
extent that such a credit is allowed under the municipal income tax ordinance,
or rules of the municipal corporation of residence.
   (G)   (1)   If, in computing a taxpayer’s adjusted federal taxable income,
the taxpayer deducted any amount with respect to a stock option granted to an
employee, and if the employee is not required to include in the employee’s
income any such amount or a portion thereof because it is exempted from
taxation under R.C. § 718.01(C)(12) and (R)(1)(d) by a municipal corporation to
which the taxpayer has apportioned a portion of its net profit, the taxpayer
shall add the amount that is exempt from taxation to the taxpayer’s net profit
that was apportioned to that municipal corporation.
      (2)   In no case shall a taxpayer be required to add to its net profit
that was apportioned to that municipal corporation any amount other than the
amount upon which the employee would be required to pay tax were the amount
related to the stock option not exempted from taxation.
      (3)   This division applies solely for the purpose of making an
adjustment to the amount of a taxpayer’s net profit that was apportioned to a
municipal corporation under this section.
   (H)   When calculating the ratios described in division (A) above for the
purposes of that division or division (B) above, the owner of a disregarded
entity shall include in the owner’s ratios the property, payroll and gross
receipts of such disregarded entity.
(R.C. § 718.02) (Prior Code, § 35.06.02)
§ 37.066 CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL INCOME TAX RETURN.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AFFILIATED GROUP OF CORPORATIONS. An affiliated group as defined in the
I.R.C. § 1504, except that, if such a group includes at least one incumbent
local exchange carrier that is primarily engaged in the business of providing
local exchange telephone service in this state, the affiliated group shall not
include any incumbent local exchange carrier that would otherwise be included
in the group.
      CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL INCOME TAX RETURN. A consolidated return filed for
federal income tax purposes pursuant to the I.R.C. § 1501.
      CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME. The consolidated taxable income of
an affiliated group of corporations, as computed for the purposes of filing a
consolidated federal income tax return, before consideration of net operating
losses or special deductions. CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME does not
include income or loss of an incumbent local exchange carrier that is excluded
from the affiliated group under the definition for AFFILIATED GROUP OF
CORPORATIONS.
      INCUMBENT LOCAL EXCHANGE CARRIER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
4927.01.
      LOCAL EXCHANGE TELEPHONE SERVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5727.01.
   (B)   (1)   For taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2016, a
taxpayer that is a member of an affiliated group of corporations may elect to
file a consolidated municipal income tax return for a taxable year if at least
one member of the affiliated group of corporations is subject to the municipal
income tax in that taxable year and if the affiliated group of corporations
filed a consolidated federal income tax return with respect to that taxable
year. The election is binding for a five-year period beginning with the first
taxable year of the initial election unless a change in the reporting method is
required under federal law. The election continues to be binding for each
subsequent five-year period unless the taxpayer elects to discontinue filing
consolidated municipal income tax returns under division (B)(2) below or a
taxpayer receives permission from the Tax Administrator. The Tax Administrator
shall approve such a request for good cause shown.
      (2)   An election to discontinue filing consolidated municipal income tax
returns under this section must be made in the first year following the last
year of a five-year consolidated municipal income tax return election period in
effect under division (B)(1) above. The election to discontinue filing a
consolidated municipal income tax return is binding for a five-year period
beginning with the first taxable year of the election.
      (3)   An election made under division (B)(1) or (B)(2) above is binding
on all members of the affiliated group of corporations subject to a municipal
income tax.
      (4)   When a taxpayer makes the election allowed under R.C. § 718.80, a
valid election made by the taxpayer under division (B)(1) or (B)(2) above is
binding upon the tax commissioner for the remainder of the five-year period.
      (5)   When an election made under R.C. § 718.80 is terminated, a valid
election made under R.C. § 718.86 is binding upon the Tax Administrator for the
remainder of the five-year period.
   (C)   A taxpayer that is a member of an affiliated group of corporations
that filed a consolidated federal income tax return for a taxable year shall
file a consolidated municipal income tax return for that taxable year if the
Tax Administrator determines, by a preponderance of the evidence, that
intercompany transactions have not been conducted at arm’s length and that
there has been a distortive shifting of income or expenses with regard to
allocation of net profits to the municipal corporation. A taxpayer that is
required to file a consolidated municipal income tax return for a taxable year
shall file a consolidated municipal income tax return for all subsequent
taxable years unless the taxpayer requests and receives written permission from
the Tax Administrator to file a separate return or a taxpayer has experienced a
change in circumstances.
   (D)   A taxpayer shall prepare a consolidated municipal income tax return in
the same manner as is required under the U.S. Department of Treasury
regulations that prescribe procedures for the preparation of the consolidated
federal income tax return required to be filed by the common parent of the
affiliated group of which the taxpayer is a member.
   (E)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (E)(2), (E)(3) and (E)
(4) below, corporations that file a consolidated municipal income tax return
shall compute adjusted federal taxable income, as defined in R.C. § 718.01, by
substituting “consolidated federal taxable income” for “federal taxable income”
wherever “federal taxable income” appears in that division and by substituting
“an affiliated group of corporation’s” for “a C corporation’s” wherever “a C
corporation’s” appears in that division.
      (2)   No corporation filing a consolidated municipal income tax return
shall make any adjustment otherwise required under R.C. § 718.01(E) to the
extent that the item of income or deduction otherwise subject to the adjustment
has been eliminated or consolidated in the computation of consolidated federal
taxable income.
      (3)   If the net profit or loss of a pass-through entity having at least
80% of the value of its ownership interest owned or controlled, directly or
indirectly, by an affiliated group of corporations is included in that
affiliated group’s consolidated federal taxable income for a taxable year, the
corporation filing a consolidated municipal income tax return shall do one of
the following with respect to that pass-through entity’s net profit or loss for
that taxable year:
         (a)   Exclude the pass-through entity’s net profit or loss from the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purpose of making the computations required in R.C. § 718.02, exclude the
property, payroll and gross receipts of the pass-through entity in the
computation of the affiliated group’s net profit sitused to a municipal
corporation. If the entity’s net profit or loss is so excluded, the entity
shall be subject to taxation as a separate taxpayer on the basis of the
entity’s net profits that would otherwise be included in the consolidated
federal taxable income of the affiliated group; and
         (b)   Include the pass-through entity’s net profit or loss in the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purpose of making the computations required in R.C. § 718.02, include the
property, payroll and gross receipts of the pass-through entity in the
computation of the affiliated group’s net profit sitused to a municipal
corporation. If the entity’s net profit or loss is so included, the entity
shall not be subject to taxation as a separate taxpayer on the basis of the
entity’s net profits that are included in the consolidated federal taxable
income of the affiliated group.
      (4)   If the net profit or loss of a pass-through entity having less than
80% of the value of its ownership interest owned or controlled, directly or
indirectly, by an affiliated group of corporations is included in that
affiliated group’s consolidated federal taxable income for a taxable year, all
of the following shall apply.
         (a)   The corporation filing the consolidated municipal income tax
return shall exclude the pass-through entity’s net profit or loss from the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purposes of making the computations required in R.C. § 718.02, exclude the
property, payroll and gross receipts of the pass-through entity in the
computation of the affiliated group’s net profit sitused to a municipal
corporation.
         (b)   The pass-through entity shall be subject to municipal income
taxation as a separate taxpayer in accordance with this chapter on the basis of
the entity’s net profits that would otherwise be included in the consolidated
federal taxable income of the affiliated group.
   (F)   Corporations filing a consolidated municipal income tax return shall
make the computations required under R.C. § 718.02 by substituting
“consolidated federal taxable income attributable to” for “net profit from”
wherever “net profit from” appears in that section and by substituting
“affiliated group of corporations” for “taxpayer” wherever “taxpayer” appears
in that section.
   (G)   Each corporation filing a consolidated municipal income tax return is
jointly and severally liable for any tax, interest, penalties, fines, charges
or other amounts imposed by a municipal corporation in accordance with this
chapter on the corporation, an affiliated group of which the corporation is a
member for any portion of the taxable year, or any one or more members of such
an affiliated group.
   (H)   Corporations and their affiliates that made an election or entered
into an agreement with a municipal corporation before January 1, 2016, to file
a consolidated or combined tax return with such municipal corporation may
continue to file consolidated or combined tax returns in accordance with such
election or agreement for taxable years beginning on and after January 1, 2016.
(R.C. § 718.06) (Prior Code, § 35.06.03)
§ 37.067 TAX CREDIT FOR BUSINESS THAT FOSTER NEW JOBS IN THE STATE.
   A municipal corporation, by ordinance, may grant a refundable or
nonrefundable credit against its tax on income to a taxpayer to foster job
creation in the municipal corporation. If a credit is granted under this
section, it shall be measured as a percentage of the new income tax revenue the
municipal corporation derives from new employees of the taxpayer and shall be
for a term not exceeding 15 years. Before the municipal corporation passes an
ordinance granting a credit, the municipal corporation and the taxpayer shall
enter into an agreement specifying all the conditions of the credit.
(R.C. § 718.15) (Prior Code, § 35.06.04)
§ 37.068 TAX CREDITS TO FOSTER JOB RETENTION.
   A municipal corporation, by ordinance, may grant a refundable or
nonrefundable credit against its tax on income to a taxpayer for the purpose of
fostering job retention in the municipal corporation. If a credit is granted
under this section, it shall be measured as a percentage of the income tax
revenue the municipal corporation derives from the retained employees of the
taxpayer, and shall be for a term not exceeding 15 years. Before a municipal
corporation passes an ordinance allowing such a credit, the municipal
corporation and the taxpayer shall enter into an agreement specifying all the
conditions of the credit.
(R.C. § 718.151) (Prior Code, § 35.06.05)
§ 37.069 DECLARATION OF ESTIMATED TAX.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ESTIMATED TAXES. The amount that the taxpayer reasonably estimates to be
the taxpayer’s tax liability for a municipal corporation’s income tax for the
current taxable year.
      TAX LIABILITY. The total taxes due to a municipal corporation for the
taxable year, after allowing any credit to which the taxpayer is entitled, and
after applying any estimated tax payment, withholding payment, or credit from
another taxable year.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (F) below, every taxpayer shall
make a declaration of estimated taxes for the current taxable year, on the form
prescribed by the Tax Administrator, if the amount payable as estimated taxes
is at least $200. For the purposes of this section:
         (a)   Taxes withheld from qualifying wages shall be considered as paid
to the municipal corporation for which the taxes were withheld in equal amounts
on each payment date unless the taxpayer establishes the dates on which all
amounts were actually withheld, in which case the amounts withheld shall be
considered as paid on the dates on which the amounts were actually withheld.
         (b)   An overpayment of tax applied as a credit to a subsequent
taxable year is deemed to be paid on the date of the postmark stamped on the
cover in which the payment is mailed or, if the payment is made by electronic
funds transfer, the date the payment is submitted. As used in this division,
DATE OF THE POSTMARK means, in the event there is more than one date on the
cover, the earliest date imprinted on the cover by the postal service.
         (c)   Taxes withheld by a casino operator or by a lottery sales agent
under R.C. § 718.031 are deemed to be paid to the municipal corporation for
which the taxes were withheld on the date the taxes are withheld from the
taxpayer’s winnings.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (F) below, taxpayers filing joint
returns shall file joint declarations of estimated taxes. A taxpayer may amend
a declaration under rules prescribed by the Tax Administrator. Except as
provided in division (F) below, a taxpayer having a taxable year of less than
12 months shall make a declaration under rules prescribed by the Tax
Administrator.
      (3)   The declaration of estimated taxes shall be filed on or before the
date prescribed for the filing of municipal income tax returns under R.C. §
718.05(G) or on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month after the
taxpayer becomes subject to tax for the first time.
      (4)   Taxpayers reporting on a fiscal year basis shall file a declaration
on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month after the beginning of each
fiscal year or period.
      (5)   The original declaration or any subsequent amendment may be
increased or decreased on or before any subsequent quarterly payment day as
provided in this section.
   (C)   (1)   The required portion of the tax liability for the taxable year
that shall be paid through estimated taxes made payable to the municipal
corporation or Tax Administrator, including the application of tax refunds to
estimated taxes and withholding on or before the applicable payment date, shall
be as follows:
         (a)   On or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, 22.5% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
         (b)   On or before the fifteenth day of the sixth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, 45% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
         (c)   On or before the fifteenth day of the ninth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, 67.5% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
and
         (d)   1.   For an individual, on or before the fifteenth day of the
first month of the following taxable year, 90% of the tax liability for the
taxable year.
            2.   For a person other than an individual, on or before the
fifteenth day of the twelfth month of the taxable year, 90% of the tax
liability for the taxable year.
      (2)   When an amended declaration has been filed, the unpaid balance
shown due on the amended declaration shall be paid in equal installments on or
before the remaining payment dates.
      (3)   On or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month of the year
following that for which the declaration or amended declaration was filed, an
annual return shall be filed and any balance which may be due shall be paid
with the return in accordance with R.C. § 718.05.
   (D)   (1)   In the case of any underpayment of any portion of a tax
liability, penalty and interest may be imposed pursuant to R.C. § 718.27 upon
the amount of underpayment for the period of underpayment, unless the
underpayment is due to reasonable cause as described in division (E) below.
      (2)   The amount of the underpayment shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   For the first payment of estimated taxes each year, 22.5% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment;
         (b)   For the second payment of estimated taxes each year, 45% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment;
         (c)   For the third payment of estimated taxes each year, 67.5% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment; and
         (d)   For the fourth payment of estimated taxes each year, 90% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment.
      (3)   The period of the underpayment shall run from the day the estimated
payment was required to be made to the date on which the payment is made. For
purposes of this section, a payment of estimated taxes on or before any payment
date shall be considered a payment of any previous underpayment only to the
extent the payment of estimated taxes exceeds the amount of the payment
presently required to be paid to avoid any penalty.
   (E)   An underpayment of any portion of tax liability determined under
division (D) above shall be due to reasonable cause and the penalty imposed by
this section shall not be added to the taxes for the taxable year if any of the
following apply:
      (1)   The amount of estimated taxes that were paid equals at least 90% of
the tax liability for the current taxable year, determined by annualizing the
income received during the year up to the end of the month immediately
preceding the month in which the payment is due; and
      (2)   The amount of estimated taxes that were paid equals at least 100%
of the tax liability shown on the return of the taxpayer for the preceding
taxable year, provided that the immediately preceding taxable year reflected a
period of 12 months and the taxpayer filed a return with the municipal
corporation under R.C. § 718.05 for that year.
      (3)   The taxpayer is an individual who resides in the municipal
corporation but was not domiciled there on the first day of January of the
calendar year that includes the first day of the taxable year.
   (F)   (1)   A Tax Administrator may waive the requirement for filing a
declaration of estimated taxes for any class of taxpayers after finding that
the waiver is reasonable and proper in view of administrative costs and other
factors.
      (2)   A municipal corporation may, by ordinance or rule, waive the
requirement for filing a declaration of estimated taxes for all taxpayers.
(R.C. § 718.08) (Prior Code, § 35.07.01)
CREDIT FOR TAX PAID
§ 37.080 CREDIT FOR TAX PAID TO ANOTHER CITY.
   (A)   (1)   Every individual taxpayer who resides in the city and who
receives net profits, salaries, qualifying wages, commissions, rents or other
personal service compensation for work done or services performed or rendered
outside the city, if it is established with supporting documentation that said
income is subject to municipal income tax in another municipality and that said
tax has been paid to that other municipality on the same income taxable under
this chapter to another municipality, shall be allowed a credit against the tax
imposed by this chapter of the amount so paid by him or her or in his or her
behalf to such other municipality.
      (2)   The credit shall not exceed 0.50% of the income taxable under this
chapter.
      (3)   If, for any tax year beginning on and after January 1, 2016, a
resident taxpayer’s net profit income taxable to another municipality for which
credit is being taken is greater than the income taxable to the city, the
credit shall not exceed 0.50% of the net profit income taxable to the city.
   (B)   The city shall grant a credit against its tax on income to a resident
of the city who works in a joint economic development zone created under R.C. §
715.691 or a joint economic development district created under R.C. §§ 715.70,
715.71 or 715.72 to the same extent that it grants a credit against its tax on
income to its residents who are employed in another municipal corporation.
   (C)   No credit shall be allowed for payment of school district income
taxes.
(Prior Code, § 35.08.01)
§ 37.081 REFUNDABLE CREDIT FOR QUALIFYING LOSS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      NONQUALIFIED DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN. A compensation plan described in
the I.R.C. § 3121(v)(2)(C).
      QUALIFYING LOSS.
         (a)   Except as provided in division (b) below, QUALIFYING LOSS means
the excess, if any, of the total amount of compensation the payment of which is
deferred pursuant to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan over the total
amount of income the taxpayer has recognized for federal income tax purposes
for all taxable years on a cumulative basis as compensation with respect to the
taxpayer’s receipt of money and property attributable to distributions in
connection with the nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
         (b)   If, for one or more taxable years, the taxpayer has not paid to
one or more municipal corporations income tax imposed on the entire amount of
compensation the payment of which is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified
deferred compensation plan, then the QUALIFYING LOSS is the product of the
amount resulting from the calculation described in division (a) above computed
without regard to this division (b) and a fraction the numerator of which is
the portion of such compensation on which the taxpayer has paid income tax to
one or more municipal corporations and the denominator of which is the total
amount of compensation the payment of which is deferred pursuant to a
nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
         (c)   With respect to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan, the
taxpayer sustains a qualifying loss only in the taxable year in which the
taxpayer receives the final distribution of money and property pursuant to that
nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
      QUALIFYING TAX RATE. The applicable tax rate for the taxable year for
which the taxpayer paid income tax to a municipal corporation with respect to
any portion of the total amount of compensation the payment of which is
deferred pursuant to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan. If different
tax rates applied for different taxable years, then the QUALIFYING TAX RATE is
a weighted average of those different tax rates. The weighted average shall be
based upon the tax paid to the municipal corporation each year with respect to
the nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (D) below, a refundable credit
shall be allowed against the income tax imposed by a municipal corporation for
each qualifying loss sustained by a taxpayer during the taxable year. The
amount of the credit shall be equal to the product of the qualifying loss and
the qualifying tax rate.
      (2)   A taxpayer shall claim the credit allowed under this section from
each municipal corporation to which the taxpayer paid municipal income tax with
respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation plan in one or more taxable
years.
      (3)   If a taxpayer has paid tax to more than one municipal corporation
with respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation plan, the amount of the
credit that a taxpayer may claim from each municipal corporation shall be
calculated on the basis of each municipal corporation’s proportionate share of
the total municipal corporation income tax paid by the taxpayer to all
municipal corporations with respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation
plan.
      (4)   In no case shall the amount of the credit allowed under this
section exceed the cumulative income tax that a taxpayer has paid to a
municipal corporation for all taxable years with respect to the nonqualified
deferred compensation plan.
   (C)   (1)   For the purposes of this section, municipal corporation income
tax that has been withheld with respect to a nonqualified deferred compensation
plan shall be considered to have been paid by the taxpayer with respect to the
nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
      (2)   Any municipal income tax that has been refunded or otherwise
credited for the benefit of the taxpayer with respect to a nonqualified
deferred compensation plan shall not be considered to have been paid to the
municipal corporation by the taxpayer.
   (D)   The credit allowed under this section is allowed only to the extent
the taxpayer’s qualifying loss is attributable to:
      (1)   The insolvency or bankruptcy of the employer who had established
the nonqualified deferred compensation plan; or
      (2)   The employee’s failure or inability to satisfy all of the
employer’s terms and conditions necessary to receive the nonqualified deferred
compensation.
(R.C. § 718.021) (Prior Code, § 35.08.02)
§ 37.082 CREDIT FOR PERSON WORKING IN JOINT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT.
   A municipal corporation shall grant a credit against its tax on income to a
resident of the municipal corporation who works in a joint economic development
zone created under R.C. § 715.691 or a joint economic development district
created under R.C. §§ 715.70, 715.71 or 715.72 to the same extent that it
grants a credit against its tax on income to its residents who are employed in
another municipal corporation.
(R.C. § 718.16) (Prior Code, § 35.08.03)
§ 37.083 CREDIT FOR TAX BEYOND STATUTE FOR OBTAINING REFUND.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, if tax or withholding is
paid to a municipal corporation on income or wages, and if a second municipal
corporation imposes or assesses a tax on that income or wages after the time
period allowed for a refund of the tax or withholding paid to the first
municipal corporation, the second municipal corporation shall allow a
nonrefundable credit, against the tax or withholding the second municipality
claims is due with respect to such income or wages, equal to the tax or
withholding paid to the first municipal corporation with respect to such income
or wages.
   (B)   If the tax rate in the second municipal corporation is less than the
tax rate in the first municipal corporation, then the credit described in
division (A) above shall be calculated using the tax rate in effect in the
second municipal corporation. If the tax rate in the second municipal
corporation is greater than the tax rate in the first municipal corporation,
the tax due in excess of the credit afforded is to be paid to the second
municipal corporation, along with any penalty and interest accruing thereto
during the period of nonpayment.
   (C)   Nothing in this section permits any credit carryforward.
(R.C. § 718.121) (Prior Code, § 35.08.04)
ANNUAL RETURN
§ 37.095 RETURNS AND PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   An annual return with respect to the income tax levied by a municipal
corporation shall be completed and filed by every taxpayer for any taxable year
for which the taxpayer is liable for the tax. If the total credit allowed
against the tax, as described in R.C. § 718.04(D) for the year is equal to or
exceeds the tax imposed by the municipal corporation, no return shall be
required unless the municipal ordinance or resolution levying the tax requires
the filing of a return in such circumstances.
   (B)   If an individual is deceased, any return or notice required of that
individual shall be completed and filed by that decedent’s executor,
administrator or other person charged with the property of that decedent.
   (C)   If an individual is unable to complete and file a return or notice
required by a municipal corporation in accordance with this chapter, the return
or notice required of that individual shall be completed and filed by the
individual’s duly authorized agent, guardian, conservator, fiduciary or other
person charged with the care of the person or property of that individual.
   (D)   Returns or notices required of an estate or a trust shall be completed
and filed by the fiduciary of the estate or trust.
   (E)   No municipal corporation shall deny spouses the ability to file a
joint return.
   (F)   (1)   Each return required to be filed under this section shall
contain the signature of the taxpayer or the taxpayer’s duly authorized agent
and of the person who prepared the return for the taxpayer, and shall include
the taxpayer’s Social Security number or taxpayer identification number. Each
return shall be verified by a declaration under penalty of perjury.
      (2)   A Tax Administrator may require a taxpayer who is an individual to
include, with each annual return, amended return, or request for refund
required under this section, copies of only the following documents: all of the
taxpayer’s Internal Revenue Service form W-2, “wage and tax statements”,
including all information reported on the taxpayer’s federal W-2, as well as
taxable wages reported or withheld for any municipal corporation; the
taxpayer’s Internal Revenue Service form 1040 or, in the case of a return or
request required by a qualified municipal corporation, Ohio form IT-1040; and,
with respect to an amended tax return or refund request, any other
documentation necessary to support the refund request or the adjustments made
in the amended return. An individual taxpayer who files the annual return
required by this section electronically is not required to provide paper copies
of any of the foregoing to the Tax Administrator unless the Tax Administrator
requests such copies after the return has been filed.
      (3)   (a)   A Tax Administrator may require a taxpayer that is not an
individual to include, with each annual net profit return, amended net profit
return or request for refund required under this section, copies of only the
following documents: the taxpayer’s Internal Revenue Service form 1041, form
1065, form 1120, form 1120-REIT, form 1120F or form 1120S, and, with respect to
an amended tax return or refund request, any other documentation necessary to
support the refund request or the adjustments made in the amended return.
         (b)   A taxpayer that is not an individual and that files an annual
net profit return electronically through the Ohio business gateway or in some
other manner shall either mail the documents required under this division to
the Tax Administrator at the time of filing or, if electronic submission is
available, submit the documents electronically through the Ohio business
gateway. The Department of Taxation shall publish a method of electronically
submitting the documents required under this division through the Ohio business
gateway on or before January 1, 2016. The Department shall transmit all
documents submitted electronically under this division to the appropriate Tax
Administrator.
      (4)   After a taxpayer files a tax return, the Tax Administrator may
request, and the taxpayer shall provide, any information, statements or
documents required by the municipal corporation to determine and verify the
taxpayer’s municipal income tax liability. The requirements imposed under this
division (F) apply regardless of whether the taxpayer files on a generic form
or on a form prescribed by the Tax Administrator.
   (G)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, each
individual income tax return required to be filed under this section shall be
completed and filed as required by the Tax Administrator on or before the date
prescribed for the filing of state individual income tax returns under R.C. §
5747.08(G). The taxpayer shall complete and file the return or notice on forms
prescribed by the Tax Administrator or on generic forms, together with
remittance made payable to the municipal corporation or Tax Administrator. No
remittance is required if the amount shown to be due is $10 or less. A
municipal corporation shall not require a qualifying employee whose income
consists exclusively of exempt income described in R.C. § 718.01(C)(20)(b) or
(C)(20)(c) to file a return under this section.
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, each annual net
profit return required to be filed under this section by a taxpayer that is not
an individual shall be completed and filed as required by the Tax Administrator
on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month following the end of the
taxpayer’s taxable year. The taxpayer shall complete and file the return or
notice on forms prescribed by the Tax Administrator or on generic forms,
together with remittance made payable to the municipal corporation or Tax
Administrator. No remittance is required if the amount shown to be due is $10
or less.
      (2)   (a)   Any taxpayer that has duly requested an automatic six-month
extension for filing the taxpayer’s federal income tax return shall
automatically receive an extension for the filing of a municipal income tax
return. The extended due date of the municipal income tax return shall be the
fifteenth day of the tenth month after the last day of the taxable year to
which the return relates.
         (b)   A taxpayer that has not requested or received a six-month
extension for filing the taxpayer’s federal income tax return may request that
the Tax Administrator grant the taxpayer a six-month extension of the date for
filing the taxpayer’s municipal income tax return. If the request is received
by the Tax Administrator on or before the date the municipal income tax return
is due, the Tax Administrator shall grant the taxpayer’s requested extension.
         (c)   An extension of time to file under this division (G)(2) is not
an extension of the time to pay any tax due unless the Tax Administrator grants
an extension of that date.
      (3)   If the Tax Commissioner extends for all taxpayers the date for
filing state income tax returns under R.C. § 5747.08(G), a taxpayer shall
automatically receive an extension for the filing of a municipal income tax
return. The extended due date of the municipal income tax return shall be the
same as the extended due date of the state income tax return.
      (4)   If the Tax Administrator considers it necessary in order to ensure
the payment of the tax imposed by the municipal corporation in accordance with
this chapter, the Tax Administrator may require taxpayers to file returns and
make payments otherwise than as provided in this section, including taxpayers
not otherwise required to file annual returns.
      (5)   To the extent that any provision in this division conflicts with
any provision in R.C. § 718.052, the provision in that section prevails.
   (H)   (1)   For taxable years beginning after 2015, a municipal corporation
shall not require a taxpayer to remit tax with respect to net profits if the
amount due is less than $10.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (H)(3) below, any taxpayer not
required to remit tax to a municipal corporation for a taxable year pursuant to
division (H)(1) above shall file with the municipal corporation an annual net
profit return under division (F)(3) above.
      (3)   A municipal corporation shall not require a person to file a net
profit return under this section if the person’s income consists exclusively of
exempt income described in R.C. § 718.01(C)(20)(a).
   (I)   (1)   If any report, claim, statement or other document required to be
filed, or any payment required to be made, within a prescribed period or on or
before a prescribed date under this chapter is delivered after that period or
that date by U.S. Mail to the Tax Administrator or other municipal official
with which the report, claim, statement or other document is required to be
filed, or to which the payment is required to be made, the date of the postmark
stamped on the cover in which the report, claim, statement or other document,
or payment is mailed shall be deemed to be the date of delivery or the date of
payment. The DATE OF POSTMARK means, in the event there is more than one date
on the cover, the earliest date imprinted on the cover by the postal service.
      (2)   If a payment under this chapter is made by electronic funds
transfer, the payment shall be considered to be made on the date of the
timestamp assigned by the first electronic system receiving that payment.
   (J)   The amounts withheld by an employer, the agent of an employer, or
another payer as described in R.C. § 718.03 shall be allowed to the recipient
of the compensation as credits against payment of the tax imposed on the
recipient by the municipal corporation, unless the amounts withheld were not
remitted to the municipal corporation and the recipient colluded with the
employer, agent or other payer in connection with the failure to remit the
amounts withheld.
   (K)   Each return required by a municipal corporation to be filed in
accordance with this section shall include a box that the taxpayer may check to
authorize another person, including a tax return preparer who prepared the
return, to communicate with the Tax Administrator about matters pertaining to
the return. The return or instructions accompanying the return shall indicate
that by checking the box the taxpayer authorizes the Tax Administrator to
contact the preparer or other person concerning questions that arise during the
examination or other review of the return and authorizes the preparer or other
person only to provide the Tax Administrator with information that is missing
from the return, to contact the Tax Administrator for information about the
examination or other review of the return or the status of the taxpayer’s
refund or payments, and to respond to notices about mathematical errors,
offsets or return preparation that the taxpayer has received from the Tax
Administrator and has shown to the preparer or other person.
   (L)   The Tax Administrator of a municipal corporation shall accept for
filing a generic form of any income tax return, report or document required by
the municipal corporation in accordance with this chapter, provided that the
generic form, once completed and filed, contains all of the information
required by ordinance, resolution or rules adopted by the municipal corporation
or Tax Administrator, and provided that the taxpayer or tax return preparer
filing the generic form otherwise complies with the provisions of this chapter
and of the municipal corporation ordinance or resolution governing the filing
of returns, reports or documents.
   (M)   When income tax returns, reports or other documents require the
signature of a tax return preparer, the Tax Administrator shall accept a
facsimile of such a signature in lieu of a manual signature.
   (N)   (1)   As used in this division, WORKSITE LOCATION has the same meaning
as in R.C. § 718.011.
      (2)   A person may notify a Tax Administrator that the person does not
expect to be a taxpayer with respect to the municipal corporation for a taxable
year if both of the following conditions apply.
         (a)   The person was required to file a tax return with the municipal
corporation for the immediately preceding taxable year because the person
performed services at a worksite location within that municipal corporation.
         (b)   1.   The person no longer provides services in the municipal
corporation and does not expect to be subject to the municipal corporation’s
income tax for the taxable year.
            2.   The person shall provide the notice in a signed affidavit that
briefly explains the person’s circumstances, including the location of the
previous worksite location and the last date on which the person performed
services or made any sales within the municipal corporation. The affidavit also
shall include the following statement: “The affiant has no plans to perform any
services within the municipal corporation, make any sales in the municipal
corporation, or otherwise become subject to the tax levied by the municipal
corporation during the taxable year. If the affiant does become subject to the
tax levied by the municipal corporation for the taxable year, the affiant
agrees to be considered a taxpayer and to properly register as a taxpayer with
the municipal corporation if such a registration is required by the municipal
corporation’s resolutions, ordinances or rules”. The person shall sign the
affidavit under penalty of perjury.
         (c)   If a person submits an affidavit described in division (N)(2)
above, the Tax Administrator shall not require the person to file any tax
return for the taxable year unless the Tax Administrator possesses information
that conflicts with the affidavit or if the circumstances described in the
affidavit change. Nothing in this division (N) prohibits the Tax Administrator
from performing an audit of the person.
(R.C. § 718.05) (Prior Code, § 35.09.01)
§ 37.096 RETURN AND PAYMENT OF TAX; INDIVIDUALS SERVING IN COMBAT ZONES.
   (A)   Each member of the national guard of any state and each member of a
reserve component of the armed forces of the United States called to active
duty pursuant to an executive order issued by the President of the United
States or an act of the congress of the United States, and each civilian
serving as support personnel in a combat zone or contingency operation in
support of the armed forces, may apply to the Tax Administrator of a municipal
corporation for both an extension of time for filing of the return and an
extension of time for payment of taxes required by the municipal corporation in
accordance with this chapter during the period of the member’s or civilian’s
duty service and for 180 days thereafter. The application shall be filed on or
before the one hundred eightieth day after the member’s or civilian’s duty
terminates. An applicant shall provide such evidence as the Tax Administrator
considers necessary to demonstrate eligibility for the extension.
   (B)   (1)   If the Tax Administrator ascertains that an applicant is
qualified for an extension under this section, the Tax Administrator shall
enter into a contract with the applicant for the payment of the tax in
installments that begin on the one hundred eighty-first day after the
applicant’s active duty or service terminates. Except as provided in division
(B)(3) below, the Tax Administrator may prescribe such contract terms as the
Tax Administrator considers appropriate.
      (2)   If the Tax Administrator ascertains that an applicant is qualified
for an extension under this section, the applicant shall neither be required to
file any return, report or other tax document nor be required to pay any tax
otherwise due to the municipal corporation before the one hundred eighty-first
day after the applicant’s active duty or service terminates.
      (3)   Taxes paid pursuant to a contract entered into under division (B)
(1) above are not delinquent. The tax administrator shall not require any
payments of penalties or interest in connection with those taxes for the
extension period.
   (C)   (1)   Nothing in this division denies to any person described in this
division the application of divisions (A) and (B) above.
      (2)   (a)   A qualifying taxpayer who is eligible for an extension under
the Internal Revenue Code shall receive both an extension of time in which to
file any return, report, or other tax document and an extension of time in
which to make any payment of taxes required by a municipal corporation in
accordance with this chapter. The length of any extension granted under this
division (C)(2)(a) shall be equal to the length of the corresponding extension
that the taxpayer receives under the Internal Revenue Code. As used in this
section, QUALIFYING TAXPAYER means a member of the national guard or a member
of a reserve component of the armed forces of the United States called to
active duty pursuant to either an executive order issued by the president of
the United States or an act of the congress of the United States, or a civilian
serving as support personnel in a combat zone or contingency operation in
support of the armed forces.
         (b)   Taxes whose payment is extended in accordance with division (C)
(2)(a) above are not delinquent during the extension period. Such taxes become
delinquent on the first day after the expiration of the extension period if the
taxes are not paid prior to that date. The Tax Administrator shall not require
any payment of penalties or interest in connection with those taxes for the
extension period. The Tax Administrator shall not include any period of
extension granted under division (C)(2)(a) above in calculating the penalty or
interest due on any unpaid tax.
   (D)   For each taxable year to which divisions (A), (B) or (C) above applies
to a taxpayer, the provisions of divisions (B)(2) and (B)(3) or (C) above, as
applicable, apply to the spouse of that taxpayer if the filing status of the
spouse and the taxpayer is married filing jointly for that year.
(R.C. § 718.052) (Prior Code, § 35.09.02)
§ 37.097 USE OF STATE BUSINESS GATEWAY; TYPES OF FILINGS AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   Any taxpayer subject to municipal income taxation with respect to the
taxpayer’s net profit from a business or profession may file any municipal
income tax return, estimated municipal income tax return, or extension for
filing a municipal income tax return, and may make payment of amounts shown to
be due on such returns, by using the Ohio business gateway.
   (B)   Any employer, agent of an employer or other payer may report the
amount of municipal income tax withheld from qualifying wages, and may make
remittance of such amounts, by using the Ohio business gateway.
   (C)   Nothing in this section affects the due dates for filing employer
withholding tax returns.
   (D)   No municipal corporation shall be required to pay any fee or charge
for the operation or maintenance of the Ohio business gateway.
   (E)   The use of the Ohio business gateway by municipal corporations,
taxpayers, or other persons pursuant to this section does not affect the legal
rights of municipalities or taxpayers as otherwise permitted by law. This state
shall not be a party to the administration of municipal income taxes or to an
appeal of a municipal income tax matter, except as otherwise specifically
provided by law.
   (F)   (1)   The Tax Commissioner shall adopt rules establishing:
         (a)   The format of documents to be used by taxpayers to file returns
and make payments through the Ohio business gateway; and
         (b)   1.   The information taxpayers must submit when filing municipal
income tax returns through the Ohio business gateway.
            2.   The Commissioner shall not adopt rules under this division
that conflict with the requirements of R.C. § 718.05.
      (2)   The Commissioner shall consult with the Ohio business gateway
steering committee before adopting the rules described in division (F)(1)
above.
   (G)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as limiting or removing the
authority of any municipal corporation to administer, audit and enforce the
provisions of its municipal income tax.
(R.C. § 718.051) (Prior Code, § 35.09.03)
§ 37.098 EXTENSION OF TIME TO FILE.
   (A)   Any taxpayer that has duly requested an automatic six-month extension
for filing the taxpayer’s federal income tax return shall automatically receive
an extension for the filing of a municipal income tax return. The extended due
date of the municipal income tax return shall be the fifteenth day of the tenth
month after the last day of the taxable year to which the return relates.
   (B)   Any taxpayer that qualifies for an automatic federal extension for a
period other than six-months for filing the taxpayer’s federal income tax
return shall automatically receive an extension for the filing of a municipal
income tax return. The extended due date of the municipal income tax return
shall be the same as that of the extended federal income tax return.
   (C)   A taxpayer that has not requested or received a six-month extension
for filing the taxpayer’s federal income tax return may submit a written
request that the Tax Administrator grant the taxpayer a six-month extension of
the date for filing the taxpayer’s municipal income tax return. If the request
is received by the Tax Administrator on or before the date the municipal income
tax return is due, the Tax Administrator shall grant the taxpayer’s requested
extension.
   (D)   An extension of time to file under this chapter is not an extension of
the time to pay any tax due unless the Tax Administrator grants an extension of
that date.
   (E)   If the State Tax Commissioner extends for all taxpayers the date for
filing state income tax returns under R.C. § 5747.08(G), a taxpayer shall
automatically receive an extension for the filing of a municipal income tax
return. The extended due date of the municipal income tax return shall be the
same as the extended due date of the state income tax return.
(Prior Code, § 35.09.04)
§ 37.099 AMENDED RETURNS.
   (A)   A taxpayer shall file an amended return with the Tax Administrator in
such form as the Tax Administrator requires if any of the facts, figures,
computations or attachments required in the taxpayer’s annual return to
determine the tax due levied by the municipal corporation in accordance with
this chapter must be altered as the result of an adjustment to the taxpayer’s
federal income tax return, whether initiated by the taxpayer or the internal
revenue service, and such alteration affects the taxpayer’s tax liability under
this chapter. If a taxpayer intends to file an amended consolidated municipal
income tax return, or to amend its type of return from a separate return to a
consolidated return, based on the taxpayer’s consolidated federal income tax
return, the taxpayer shall notify the Tax Administrator before filing the
amended return.
   (B)   (1)   In the case of an underpayment, the amended return shall be
accompanied by payment of any combined additional tax due together with any
penalty and interest thereon. If the combined tax shown to be due is $10 or
less, such amount need not accompany the amended return. Except as provided
under division (B)(2) below, the amended return shall not reopen those facts,
figures, computations or attachments from a previously filed return that are
not affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to the
taxpayer’s federal or state income tax return unless the applicable statute of
limitations for civil actions or prosecutions under R.C. § 718.12 has not
expired for a previously filed return.
      (2)   The additional tax to be paid shall not exceed the amount of tax
that would be due if all facts, figures, computations and attachments were
reopened.
   (C)   (1)   In the case of an overpayment, a request for refund may be filed
under this division within the period prescribed by R.C. § 718.12(E) for filing
the amended return even if it is filed beyond the period prescribed in that
division if it otherwise conforms to the requirements of that division. If the
amount of the refund is ten dollars or less, no refund need be paid by the
municipal corporation to the taxpayer. Except as set forth in division (C)(2)
below, a request filed under this division shall claim refund of overpayments
resulting from alterations to only those facts, figures, computations or
attachments required in the taxpayer’s annual return that are affected, either
directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to the taxpayer’s federal or state
income tax return, unless it is also filed within the time prescribed in R.C. §
718.19. Except as set forth in division (C)(2) below, the request shall not
reopen those facts, figures, computations or attachments that are not affected,
either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to the taxpayer’s federal or
state income tax return.
      (2)   The amount to be refunded shall not exceed the amount of refund
that would be due if all facts, figures, computations and attachments were
reopened.
(R.C. § 718.41) (Prior Code, § 35.09.05)
§ 37.100 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a request for a refund, the Tax Administrator of a
municipal corporation, in accordance with this section, shall refund to
employers, agents of employers, other payers or taxpayers, with respect to any
income or withholding tax levied by the municipal corporation:
      (1)   Overpayments of more than $10; and
      (2)   Amounts paid erroneously if the refund requested exceeds $10.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, requests for
refund shall be filed with the Tax Administrator, on the form prescribed by the
Tax Administrator within three years after the tax was due or paid, whichever
is later. The Tax Administrator may require the requestor to file with the
request any documentation that substantiates the requestor’s claim for a
refund.
      (2)   On filing of the refund request, the Tax Administrator shall
determine the amount of refund due and certify such amount to the appropriate
municipal corporation official for payment. Except as provided in division (B)
(3) below, the Administrator shall issue an assessment to any taxpayer whose
request for refund is fully or partially denied. The assessment shall state the
amount of the refund that was denied, the reasons for the denial and
instructions for appealing the assessment.
      (3)   If a Tax Administrator denies in whole or in part a refund request
included within the taxpayer’s originally filed annual income tax return, the
Tax Administrator shall notify the taxpayer, in writing, of the amount of the
refund that was denied, the reasons for the denial and instructions for
requesting an assessment that may be appealed under R.C. § 718.11.
   (C)   A request for a refund that is received after the last day for filing
specified in division (B) above shall be considered to have been filed in a
timely manner if any of the following situations exist.
      (1)   The request is delivered by the postal service, and the earliest
postal service postmark on the cover in which the request is enclosed is not
later than the last day for filing the request.
      (2)   The request is delivered by the postal service, the only postmark
on the cover in which the request is enclosed was affixed by a private postal
meter, the date of that postmark is not later than the last day for filing the
request and the request is received within seven days of such last day.
      (3)   The request is delivered by the postal service, no postmark date
was affixed to the cover in which the request is enclosed or the date of the
postmark so affixed is not legible, and the request is received within seven
days of the last day for making the request.
   (D)   As used in this section, WITHHOLDING TAX has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 718.27.
(R.C. § 718.19) (Prior Code, § 35.09.06)
FEES AND CHARGES
§ 37.115 PENALTY, INTEREST, FEES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      APPLICABLE LAW. This chapter, the resolutions, ordinances, codes,
directives, instructions and rules adopted by a municipal corporation provided
such resolutions, ordinances, codes, directives, instructions and rules impose
or directly or indirectly address the levy, payment, remittance or filing
requirements of a municipal income tax.
      INCOME TAX, ESTIMATED INCOME TAX and WITHHOLDING TAX. Any income tax,
estimated income tax and withholding tax imposed by a municipal corporation
pursuant to applicable law, including at any time before January 1, 2016.
      RETURN. Includes any tax return, report, reconciliation, schedule and
other document required to be filed with a Tax Administrator or municipal
corporation by a taxpayer, employer, any agent of the employer or any other
payer pursuant to applicable law, including at any time before January 1, 2016.
      FEDERAL SHORT-TERM RATE. The rate of the average market yield on
outstanding marketable obligations of the United States with remaining periods
to maturity of three years or less, as determined under the I.R.C. § 1274, for
July of the current year.
      INTEREST RATE. As described in this division (A), means the federal
short-term rate, rounded to the nearest whole number per cent, plus 5%. The
rate shall apply for the calendar year next following the July of the year in
which the federal short-term rate is determined in accordance with the
definition for FEDERAL SHORT-TERM RATE described in this division (A).
      UNPAID ESTIMATED INCOME TAX. Estimated income tax due but not paid by the
date the tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      UNPAID INCOME TAX. Income tax due but not paid by the date the income tax
is required to be paid under applicable law.
      UNPAID WITHHOLDING TAX. Withholding tax due but not paid by the date the
withholding tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      WITHHOLDING TAX. Includes amounts an employer, any agent of an employer
or any other payer did not withhold in whole or in part from an employee’s
qualifying wages, but that, under applicable law, the employer, agent or other
payer is required to withhold from an employee’s qualifying wages.
   (B)   (1)   This section applies to the following:
         (a)   Any return required to be filed under applicable law for taxable
years beginning on or after January 1, 2016; and
         (b)   Income tax, estimated income tax and withholding tax required to
be paid or remitted to the municipal corporation on or after January 1, 2016.
      (2)   This section does not apply to returns required to be filed or
payments required to be made before January 1, 2016, regardless of the filing
or payment date. Returns required to be filed or payments required to be made
before January 1, 2016, but filed or paid after that date shall be subject to
the ordinances or rules, as adopted before January 1, 2016, of the municipal
corporation to which the return is to be filed or the payment is to be made.
   (C)   Each municipal corporation levying a tax on income may impose on a
taxpayer, employer, any agent of the employer and any other payer, and must
attempt to collect, the interest amounts and penalties prescribed under this
division (C) when the taxpayer, employer, any agent of the employer or any
other payer for any reason fails, in whole or in part, to make to the municipal
corporation timely and full payment or remittance of income tax, estimated
income tax or withholding tax or to file timely with the municipal corporation
any return required to be filed.
      (1)   Interest shall be imposed at the rate described in division (A)
above, per annum, on all unpaid income tax, unpaid estimated income tax and
unpaid withholding tax.
      (2)   (a)   With respect to unpaid income tax and unpaid estimated income
tax, a municipal corporation may impose a penalty equal to 15% of the amount
not timely paid.
         (b)   With respect to any unpaid withholding tax, a municipal
corporation may impose a penalty not exceeding 50% of the amount not timely
paid.
      (3)   With respect to returns other than estimated income tax returns, a
municipal corporation may impose a penalty of $25 for each failure to timely
file each return, regardless of the liability shown thereon for each month, or
any fraction thereof, during which the return remains unfiled regardless of the
liability shown thereon. The penalty shall not exceed $150 for each failure.
   (D)   (1)   With respect to the income taxes, estimated income taxes,
withholding taxes and returns, no municipal corporation shall impose, seek to
collect or collect any penalty, amount of interest, charges or additional fees
not described in this section.
      (2)   With respect to the income taxes, estimated income taxes,
withholding taxes and returns not described in division (A) above, nothing in
this section requires a municipal corporation to refund or credit any penalty,
amount of interest, charges or additional fees that the municipal corporation
has properly imposed or collected before January 1, 2016.
   (E)   Nothing in this section limits the authority of a municipal
corporation to abate or partially abate penalties or interest imposed under
this section when the Tax Administrator determines, in the Tax Administrator’s
sole discretion, that such abatement is appropriate.
   (F)   By October 31 of each year the municipal corporation shall publish the
rate described in division (A) above applicable to the next succeeding calendar
year.
   (G)   The municipal corporation may impose on the taxpayer, employer, any
agent of the employer or any other payer the municipal corporation’s post-
judgment collection costs and fees, including attorney’s fees.
(R.C. § 718.27) (Prior Code, § 35.10.01)
§ 37.116 AUDIT.
   (A)   At or before the commencement of an audit, the Tax Administrator shall
provide to the taxpayer a written description of the roles of the Tax
Administrator and of the taxpayer during an audit and a statement of the
taxpayer’s rights, including any right to obtain a refund of an overpayment of
a tax. At or before the commencement of an audit, the Tax Administrator shall
inform the taxpayer when the audit is considered to have commenced.
   (B)   Except in cases involving suspected criminal activity, the Tax
Administrator shall conduct an audit of a taxpayer during regular business
hours and after providing reasonable notice to the taxpayer. A taxpayer who is
unable to comply with a proposed time for an audit on the grounds that the
proposed time would cause inconvenience or hardship must offer reasonable
alternative dates for the audit.
   (C)   (1)   At all stages of an audit by the Tax Administrator, a taxpayer
is entitled to be assisted or represented by an attorney, accountant,
bookkeeper or other tax practitioner. The Tax Administrator shall prescribe a
form by which a taxpayer may designate such a person to assist or represent the
taxpayer in the conduct of any proceedings resulting from actions by the Tax
Administrator. If a taxpayer has not submitted such a form, the Tax
Administrator may accept other evidence, as the Tax Administrator considers
appropriate, that a person is the authorized representative of a taxpayer.
      (2)   A taxpayer may refuse to answer any questions asked by the person
conducting an audit until the taxpayer has an opportunity to consult with the
taxpayer’s attorney, accountant, bookkeeper or other tax practitioner. This
division does not authorize the practice of law by a person who is not an
attorney.
   (D)   A taxpayer may record, electronically or otherwise, the audit
examination.
   (E)   The failure of the Tax Administrator to comply with a provision of
this section shall neither excuse a taxpayer from payment of any taxes owed by
the taxpayer nor cure any procedural defect in a taxpayer’s case.
   (F)   If the Tax Administrator fails to substantially comply with the
provisions of this section, the Tax Administrator, upon application by the
taxpayer, shall excuse the taxpayer from penalties and interest arising from
the audit.
(R.C. § 718.36) (Prior Code, § 35.11.01)
§ 37.117 ROUNDING.
   A person may round to the nearest whole dollar all amounts the person is
required to enter on any return, report, voucher or other document required
under this chapter. Any fractional part of a dollar that equals or exceeds
$0.50 shall be rounded to the next whole dollar, and any fractional part of a
dollar that is less than $0.50 shall be dropped. If a person chooses to round
amounts entered on a document, the person shall round all amounts entered on
the document.
(R.C. § 718.25) (Prior Code, § 35.12.01)
TAX ADMINISTRATOR
§ 37.130 ADMINISTRATIVE POWERS OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR.
   Nothing in this chapter shall limit the authority of a Tax Administrator to
perform any of the following duties or functions, unless the performance of
such duties or functions is expressly limited by a provision of the Revised
Code or the charter or ordinances of the municipal corporation:
   (A)   Exercise all powers whatsoever of an inquisitorial nature as provided
by law, including the right to inspect books, accounts, records, memorandums
and federal and state income tax returns; to examine persons under oath; to
issue orders or subpoenas for the production of books, accounts, papers,
records, documents and testimony; to take depositions; to apply to a court for
attachment proceedings as for contempt; to approve vouchers for the fees of
officers and witnesses; and to administer oaths; provided that the powers
referred to in this division (A) shall be exercised by the Tax Administrator
only in connection with the performance of the duties respectively assigned to
the Tax Administrator under a municipal corporation income tax ordinance or
resolution adopted in accordance with this chapter;
   (B)   Appoint agents and prescribe their powers and duties;
   (C)   Confer and meet with officers of other municipal corporations and
states and officers of the United States on any matters pertaining to their
respective official duties as provided by law;
   (D)   Exercise the authority provided by law, including orders from
bankruptcy courts, relative to remitting or refunding taxes, including
penalties and interest thereon, illegally or erroneously imposed or collected,
or for any other reason overpaid, and, in addition, the Tax Administrator may
investigate any claim of overpayment and make a written statement of the Tax
Administrator’s findings, and, if the Tax Administrator finds that there has
been an overpayment, approve and issue a refund payable to the taxpayer, the
taxpayer’s assigns or legal representative as provided in this chapter;
   (E)   Exercise the authority provided by law relative to consenting to the
compromise and settlement of tax claims;
   (F)   Exercise the authority provided by law relative to the use of
alternative apportionment methods by taxpayers in accordance with R.C. §
718.02;
   (G)   Make all tax findings, determinations, computations and orders the Tax
Administrator is by law authorized and required to make and, pursuant to time
limitations provided by law, on the Tax Administrator’s own motion, review,
redetermine or correct any tax findings, determinations, computations or orders
the Tax Administrator has made, but the Tax Administrator shall not review,
redetermine or correct any tax finding, determination, computation or order
which the Tax Administrator has made as to which an appeal has been filed with
the local board of tax review or other appropriate tribunal, unless such appeal
or application is withdrawn by the appellant or applicant, is dismissed or is
otherwise final;
   (H)   Destroy any or all returns or other tax documents in the manner
authorized by law; and
   (I)   Enter into an agreement with a taxpayer to simplify the withholding
obligations described in R.C. § 718.03.
(R.C. § 718.24) (Prior Code, § 35.13.01)
§ 37.131 COMPROMISE OF CLAIM AND PAYMENT OVER TIME.
   (A)   As used in this section, CLAIM means a claim for an amount payable to
a municipal corporation that arises pursuant to the municipal income tax
imposed in accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a Tax Administrator from doing
either of the following if such action is in the best interests of the
municipal corporation:
      (1)   Compromise a claim; or
      (2)   Extend for a reasonable period the time for payment of a claim by
agreeing to accept monthly or other periodic payments.
   (C)   The Tax Administrator may consider the following standards when
ascertaining with respect to a claim whether a compromise or payment-over-time
agreement is in the best interests of the municipal corporation:
      (1)   There exists a doubt as to whether the claim can be collected;
      (2)   There exists a substantial probability that, upon payment of the
claim and submission of a timely request for refund with respect to that
payment, the Tax Administrator would refund an amount that was illegally or
erroneously paid;
      (3)   There exists an economic hardship such that a compromise or
agreement would facilitate effective tax administration;
      (4)   (a)   There exists a joint liability among spouses, one of whom is
an innocent spouse, provided that any relief under this standard shall only
affect the claim as to the innocent spouse.
         (b)   A spouse granted relief under the I.R.C. § 6015 with regard to
any income item is rebuttably presumed to be an innocent spouse with regard to
that income item to the extent that income item is included in or otherwise
affects the computation of a municipal income tax or any penalty or interest on
that tax; and
      (5)   Any other reasonable standard that the Tax Administrator
establishes.
   (D)   The Tax Administrator’s rejection of a compromise or payment-over-time
agreement proposed by a person with respect to a claim shall not be appealable.
   (E)   A compromise or payment-over-time agreement with respect to a claim
shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of only the parties to the
compromise or agreement, and shall not extinguish or otherwise affect the
liability of any other person.
   (F)   A compromise or payment-over-time agreement with respect to a claim
shall be void if the taxpayer defaults under the compromise or agreement or if
the compromise or agreement was obtained by fraud or by misrepresentation of a
material fact. Any amount that was due before the compromise or agreement and
that is unpaid shall remain due, and any penalties or interest that would have
accrued in the absence of the compromise or agreement shall continue to accrue
and be due.
(R.C. § 718.28) (Prior Code, § 35.13.02)
§ 37.132 RIGHT TO EXAMINE.
   (A)   A Tax Administrator, or any authorized agent or employee thereof, may
examine the books, papers, records and federal and state income tax returns of
any employer, taxpayer or other person that is subject to, or that the Tax
Administrator believes is subject to, the provisions of this chapter for the
purpose of verifying the accuracy of any return made or, if no return was
filed, to ascertain the tax due under this chapter. Upon written request by the
Tax Administrator, or a duly authorized agent or employee thereof, every
employer, taxpayer or other person subject to this section is required to
furnish the opportunity for the Tax Administrator, authorized agent or employee
to investigate and examine such books, papers, records and federal and state
income tax returns at a reasonable time and place designated in the request.
   (B)   (1)   The records and other documents of any taxpayer, employer or
other person that is subject to, or that a Tax Administrator believes is
subject to, the provisions of this chapter shall be open to the Tax
Administrator’s inspection during business hours and shall be preserved for a
period of six years following the end of the taxable year to which the records
or documents relate, unless the Tax Administrator, in writing, consents to
their destruction within that period, or by order requires that they be kept
longer.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator of a municipal corporation may require any
person, by notice served on that person, to keep such records as the Tax
Administrator determines necessary to show whether or not that person is
liable, and the extent of such liability, for the income tax levied by the
municipal corporation or for the withholding of such tax.
   (C)   (1)   The Tax Administrator may examine, under oath, any person that
the Tax Administrator reasonably believes has knowledge concerning any income
that was or would have been returned for taxation or any transaction tending to
affect such income.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator may, for this purpose, compel any such person
to attend a hearing or examination and to produce any books, papers, records
and federal income tax returns in such person’s possession or control. The
person may be assisted or represented by an attorney, accountant, bookkeeper or
other tax practitioner at any such hearing or examination. This division does
not authorize the practice of law by a person who is not an attorney.
   (D)   No person issued written notice by the Tax Administrator compelling
attendance at a hearing or examination or the production of books, papers,
records or federal income tax returns under this section shall fail to comply.
(R.C. § 718.23) (Prior Code, § 35.13.03)
§ 37.133 REQUIRING IDENTIFYING INFORMATION.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a Tax Administrator from requiring
any person filing a tax document with the Tax Administrator to provide
identifying information, which may include the person’s Social Security number,
federal employer identification number or other identification number requested
by the Tax Administrator. A person required by the Tax Administrator to provide
identifying information that has experienced any change with respect to that
information shall notify the Tax Administrator of the change before, or upon,
filing the next tax document requiring the identifying information.
   (B)   When transmitting or otherwise making use of a tax document that
contains a person’s Social Security number, the Tax Administrator shall take
all reasonable measures necessary to ensure that the number is not capable of
being viewed by the general public, including, when necessary, masking the
number so that it is not readily discernible by the general public. The Tax
Administrator shall not put a person’s Social Security number on the outside of
any material mailed to the person.
   (C)   (1)   If the Tax Administrator makes a request for identifying
information and the Tax Administrator does not receive valid identifying
information within 30 days of making the request, nothing in this chapter
prohibits the Tax Administrator from imposing a penalty upon the person to whom
the request was directed pursuant to R.C. § 718.27, in addition to any
applicable penalty described in R.C. § 718.99.
      (2)   If a person required by the Tax Administrator to provide
identifying information does not notify the Tax Administrator of a change with
respect to that information, as required under division (A) above, within 30
days after filing the next tax document requiring such identifying information,
nothing in this chapter prohibits the Tax Administrator from imposing a penalty
pursuant to R.C. § 718.27.
      (3)   The penalties provided for under divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) above
may be billed and imposed in the same manner as the tax or fee with respect to
which the identifying information is sought and are in addition to any
applicable criminal penalties described in R.C. § 718.99 for a violation of
R.C. § 718.35 and any other penalties that may be imposed by the Tax
Administrator by law.
(R.C. § 718.26) (Prior Code, § 35.13.04)
§ 37.134 OPINION OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   An OPINION OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR means an opinion issued under this
section with respect to prospective municipal income tax liability. It does not
include ordinary correspondence of the Tax Administrator.
   (B)   A taxpayer may submit a written request for an opinion of the Tax
Administrator as to whether or how certain income, source of income or a
certain activity or transaction will be taxed. The written response of the Tax
Administrator shall be an “opinion of the Tax Administrator” and shall bind the
Tax Administrator, in accordance with divisions (C), (G) and (H) below,
provided all of the following conditions are satisfied.
      (1)   The taxpayer’s request fully and accurately describes the specific
facts or circumstances relevant to a determination of the taxability of the
income, source of income, activity or transaction, and, if an activity or
transaction, all parties involved in the activity or transaction are clearly
identified by name, location or other pertinent facts.
      (2)   The request relates to a tax imposed by the municipal corporation
in accordance with this chapter.
      (3)   The Tax Administrator’s response is signed by the Tax Administrator
and designated as an “opinion of the Tax Administrator”.
   (C)   An opinion of the Tax Administrator shall remain in effect and shall
protect the taxpayer for whom the opinion was prepared and who reasonably
relies on it from liability for any taxes, penalty or interest otherwise
chargeable on the activity or transaction specifically held by the Tax
Administrator’s opinion to be taxable in a particular manner or not to be
subject to taxation for any taxable years that may be specified in the opinion,
or until the earliest of the following dates:
      (1)   The effective date of a written revocation by the Tax Administrator
sent to the taxpayer by certified mail, return receipt requested. The effective
date of the revocation shall be the taxpayer’s date of receipt or one year
after the issuance of the opinion, whichever is later;
      (2)   The effective date of any amendment or enactment of a relevant
section of the Revised Code, uncodified state law or the municipal
corporation’s income tax ordinance that would substantially change the analysis
and conclusion of the opinion of the Tax Administrator;
      (3)   The date on which a court issues an opinion establishing or
changing relevant case law with respect to the Ohio Revised Code, uncodified
state law or the municipal corporation’s income tax ordinance;
      (4)   If the opinion of the Tax Administrator was based on the
interpretation of federal law, the effective date of any change in the relevant
federal statutes or regulations, or the date on which a court issues an opinion
establishing or changing relevant case law with respect to federal statutes or
regulations;
      (5)   The effective date of any change in the taxpayer’s material facts
or circumstances; and
      (6)   The effective date of the expiration of the opinion, if specified
in the opinion.
   (D)   A taxpayer is not relieved of tax liability for any activity or
transaction related to a request for an opinion that contained any
misrepresentation or omission of one or more material facts.
   (E)   If a Tax Administrator provides written advice under this section, the
opinion shall include a statement that:
      (1)   The tax consequences stated in the opinion may be subject to change
for any of the reasons stated in division (C) above; and
      (2)   It is the duty of the taxpayer to be aware of such changes.
   (F)   A Tax Administrator may refuse to offer an opinion on any request
received under this section.
   (G)   This section binds a Tax Administrator only with respect to opinions
of the Tax Administrator issued on or after January 1, 2016.
   (H)   An opinion of a Tax Administrator binds that Tax Administrator only
with respect to the taxpayer for whom the opinion was prepared and does not
bind the Tax Administrator of any other municipal corporation.
   (I)   A Tax Administrator shall make available the text of all opinions
issued under this section, except those opinions prepared for a taxpayer who
has requested that the text of the opinion remain confidential. In no event
shall the text of an opinion be made available until the Tax Administrator has
removed all information that identifies the taxpayer and any other parties
involved in the activity or transaction.
   (J)   An opinion of the Tax Administrator issued under this section may not
be appealed.
(R.C. § 718.38) (Prior Code, § 35.16.01)
CONFIDENTIALITY AND FRAUD
§ 37.145 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   Any information gained as a result of returns, investigations, hearings or
verifications required or authorized by this chapter or by a charter or
ordinance of a municipal corporation levying an income tax pursuant to this
chapter is confidential, and no person shall access or disclose such
information except in accordance with a proper judicial order or in connection
with the performance of that person’s official duties or the official business
of the municipal corporation as authorized by this chapter or the charter or
ordinance authorizing the levy. The Tax Administrator of the municipal
corporation or a designee thereof may furnish copies of returns filed or
otherwise received under this chapter and other related tax information to the
Internal Revenue Service, the Tax Commissioner and Tax Administrators of other
municipal corporations. This section does not prohibit a municipal corporation
from publishing or disclosing statistics in a form that does not disclose
information with respect to particular taxpayers.
(R.C. § 718.13) (Prior Code, § 35.14.01)
§ 37.146 FRAUD.
   No person shall knowingly make, present, aid or assist in the preparation or
presentation of a false or fraudulent report, return, schedule, statement,
claim or document authorized or required by municipal corporation ordinance or
state law to be filed with a Tax Administrator, or knowingly procure, counsel
or advise the preparation or presentation of such report, return, schedule,
statement, claim or document, or knowingly change, alter or amend, or knowingly
procure, counsel or advise such change, alteration or amendment of the records
upon which such report, return, schedule, statement, claim or document is based
with intent to defraud the municipal corporation or a Tax Administrator.
(R.C. § 718.35) (Prior Code, § 35.15.01)
APPEALS
§ 37.160 ASSESSMENT; APPEAL BASED ON PRESUMPTION OF DELIVERY.
   (A)   (1)   Subject to division (B) below, a copy of each assessment shall
be served upon the person affected thereby either by personal service, by
certified mail or by a delivery service authorized under R.C. § 5703.056.
      (2)   With the permission of the person affected by an assessment, the
Tax Administrator may deliver the assessment through alternative means as
provided in this section, including, but not limited to, delivery by secure
electronic mail. Delivery by such means satisfies the requirements for delivery
under this section.
   (B)   (1)   (a)   If certified mail is returned because of an undeliverable
address, a Tax Administrator shall utilize reasonable means to ascertain a new
last known address, including the use of a change of address service offered by
the postal service or an authorized delivery service under R.C. § 5703.056. If,
after using reasonable means, the Tax Administrator is unable to ascertain a
new last known address, the assessment shall be sent by ordinary mail and
considered served. If the ordinary mail is subsequently returned because of an
undeliverable address, the assessment remains appealable within 60 days after
the assessment’s postmark.
         (b)   Once the Tax Administrator or other municipal official, or the
designee of either, serves an assessment on the person to whom the assessment
is directed, the person may protest the ruling of that assessment by filing an
appeal with the local board of tax review within 60 days after the receipt of
service. The delivery of an assessment of the Tax Administrator under division
(B)(1)(a) above is prima facie evidence that delivery is complete and that the
assessment is served.
      (2)   (a)   If mailing of an assessment by a Tax Administrator by
certified mail is returned for some cause other than an undeliverable address,
the Tax Administrator shall resend the assessment by ordinary mail. The
assessment shall show the date the Tax Administrator sends the assessment and
include the following statement:
            “This assessment is deemed to be served on the addressee under
applicable law ten days from the date this assessment was mailed by the Tax
Administrator as shown on the assessment, and all periods within which an
appeal may be filed apply from and after that date”.
         (b)   Unless the mailing is returned because of an undeliverable
address, the mailing of that information is prima facie evidence that delivery
of the assessment was completed ten days after the Tax Administrator sent the
assessment by ordinary mail and that the assessment was served.
         (c)   If the ordinary mail is subsequently returned because of an
undeliverable address, the Tax Administrator shall proceed under division (B)
(1)(a) above. A person may challenge the presumption of delivery and service
under this division in accordance with division (C) below.
   (C)   (1)   A person disputing the presumption of delivery and service under
division (B) above bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the
evidence that the address to which the assessment was sent was not an address
with which the person was associated at the time the Tax Administrator
originally mailed the assessment by certified mail. For the purposes of this
section, a person is associated with an address at the time the Tax
Administrator originally mailed the assessment if, at that time, the person was
residing, receiving legal documents or conducting business at the address; or
if, before that time, the person had conducted business at the address and,
when the assessment was mailed, the person’s agent or the person’s affiliate
was conducting business at the address. For the purposes of this section, a
person’s affiliate is any other person that, at the time the assessment was
mailed, owned or controlled at least 20%, as determined by voting rights, of
the addressee’s business.
      (2)   If a person elects to appeal an assessment on the basis described
in division (C)(1) above, and if that assessment is subject to collection and
is not otherwise appealable, the person must do so within 60 days after the
initial contact by the Tax Administrator or other municipal official, or the
designee of either, with the person. Nothing in this division prevents the Tax
Administrator or other official from entering into a compromise with the person
if the person does not actually file such an appeal with the local board of tax
review.
   (D)   Nothing in this section prohibits the Tax Administrator or the Tax
Administrator’s designee from delivering an assessment by a Tax Administrator
by personal service.
   (E)   Collection actions taken upon any assessment being appealed under
division (B)(1)(b) above shall be stayed upon the pendency of an appeal under
this section. If an appeal is filed pursuant to this section on a claim that
has been delivered for collection, the collection activities with respect to
the assessment shall be stayed.
   (F)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LAST KNOWN ADDRESS. The address the Tax Administrator has at the time a
document is originally sent by certified mail, or any address the Tax
Administrator can ascertain using reasonable means such as the use of a change
of address service offered by the postal service or an authorized delivery
service under R.C. § 5703.056.
      UNDELIVERABLE ADDRESS. An address to which the postal service or an
authorized delivery service under R.C. § 5703.056 is not able to deliver an
assessment of the Tax Administrator, except when the reason for nondelivery is
because the addressee fails to acknowledge or accept the assessment.
(R.C. § 718.18) (Prior Code, § 35.17.01)
§ 37.161 BOARD OF REVIEW; APPEAL TO BOARD OF REVIEW.
   (A)   (1)   The legislative authority of each municipal corporation that
imposes a tax on income in accordance with this chapter shall maintain a local
Board of Tax Review to hear appeals as provided in this section. The
legislative authority of any municipal corporation that does not impose a tax
on income on June 26, 2003, but that imposes such a tax after that date, shall
establish such a board by ordinance not later than 180 days after the tax takes
effect.
      (2)   The local board of tax review shall consist of three members. Two
members shall be appointed by the legislative authority of the municipal
corporation, but such appointees may not be employees, elected officials or
contractors with the municipal corporation at any time during their term or in
the five years immediately preceding the date of appointment. One member shall
be appointed by the top administrative official of the municipal corporation.
This member may be an employee of the municipal corporation, but may not be the
director of finance or equivalent officer, or the Tax Administrator or other
similar official or an employee directly involved in municipal tax matters, or
any direct subordinate thereof.
      (3)   The term for members of the local board of tax review appointed by
the legislative authority of the municipal corporation shall be two years.
There is no limit on the number of terms that a member may serve if the member
is reappointed by the legislative authority. The board member appointed by the
top administrative official of the municipal corporation shall serve at the
discretion of the administrative official.
      (4)   Members of the board of tax review appointed by the legislative
authority may be removed by the legislative authority by majority vote for
malfeasance, misfeasance or nonfeasance in office. To remove such a member, the
legislative authority must give the member a copy of the charges against the
member and afford the member an opportunity to be publicly heard in person or
by counsel in the member’s own defense upon not less than ten days’ notice. The
decision by the legislative authority on the charges is final and not
appealable.
      (5)   A member of the board who, for any reason, ceases to meet the
qualifications for the position prescribed by this section shall resign
immediately by operation of law.
      (6)   A vacancy in an unexpired term shall be filled in the same manner
as the original appointment within 60 days of when the vacancy was created. Any
member appointed to fill a vacancy occurring prior to the expiration of the
term for which the member’s predecessor was appointed shall hold office for the
remainder of such term. No vacancy on the board shall impair the power and
authority of the remaining members to exercise all the powers of the board.
      (7)   If a member is temporarily unable to serve on the board due to a
conflict of interest, illness, absence or similar reason, the legislative
authority or top administrative official that appointed the member shall
appoint another individual to temporarily serve on the board in the member’s
place. The appointment of such an individual shall be subject to the same
requirements and limitations as are applicable to the appointment of the member
temporarily unable to serve.
   (B)   Whenever a Tax Administrator issues an assessment regarding an
underpayment of municipal income tax or denies a refund claim, the Tax
Administrator shall notify the taxpayer in writing at the same time of the
taxpayer’s right to appeal the assessment or denial, the manner in which the
taxpayer may appeal the assessment or denial, and the address to which the
appeal should be directed.
   (C)   Any person who has been issued an assessment may appeal the assessment
to the board created pursuant to this section by filing a request with the
board. The request shall be in writing, shall specify the reason or reasons why
the assessment should be deemed incorrect or unlawful and shall be filed within
60 days after the taxpayer receives the assessment.
   (D)   The local board of tax review shall schedule a hearing to be held
within 60 days after receiving an appeal of an assessment under division (C)
above, unless the taxpayer requests additional time to prepare or waives a
hearing. If the taxpayer does not waive the hearing, the taxpayer may appear
before the board and may be represented by an attorney at law, certified public
accountant or other representative. The board may allow a hearing to be
continued as jointly agreed to by the parties. In such a case, the hearing must
be completed within 120 days after the first day of the hearing unless the
parties agree otherwise.
   (E)   The board may affirm, reverse or modify the Tax Administrator’s
assessment or any part of that assessment. The board shall issue a final
determination on the appeal within 90 days after the board’s final hearing on
the appeal, and send a copy of its final determination by ordinary mail to all
of the parties to the appeal within 15 days after issuing the final
determination. The taxpayer or the Tax Administrator may appeal the Board’s
final determination as provided in R.C. § 5717.011.
   (F)   The local board of tax review created pursuant to this section shall
adopt rules governing its procedures and shall keep a record of its
transactions. Such records are not public records available for inspection
under R.C. § 149.43. Hearings requested by a taxpayer before a local board of
tax review created pursuant to this section are not meetings of a public body
subject to R.C. § 121.22.
(R.C. § 718.11) (Prior Code, § 35.18.01)
§ 37.162 ACTIONS TO RECOVER; STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   Civil actions to recover municipal income taxes and
penalties and interest on municipal income taxes shall be brought within the
later of:
            1.   Three years after the tax was due or the return was filed,
whichever is later; or
            2.   One year after the conclusion of the qualifying deferral
period, if any.
         (b)   The time limit described in division (A)(1)(a) above may be
extended at any time if both the Tax Administrator and the employer, agent of
the employer, other payer or taxpayer consent in writing to the extension. Any
extension shall also extend for the same period of time the time limit
described in division (C) below.
      (2)   As used in this section, QUALIFYING DEFERRAL PERIOD means a period
of time beginning and ending as follows:
         (a)   Beginning on the date a person who is aggrieved by an assessment
files with a local Board of Tax Review the request described in R.C. § 718.11.
That date shall not be affected by any subsequent decision, finding, or holding
by any administrative body or court that the local Board of Tax Review with
which the aggrieved person filed the request did not have jurisdiction to
affirm, reverse or modify the assessment or any part of that assessment; and
         (b)   Ending the later of the sixtieth day after the date on which the
final determination of the local board of tax review becomes final or, if any
party appeals from the determination of the local board of tax review, the
sixtieth day after the date on which the final determination of the local board
of tax review is either ultimately affirmed in whole or in part or ultimately
reversed and no further appeal of either that affirmation, in whole or in part,
or that reversal is available or taken.
   (B)   Prosecutions for an offense made punishable under a resolution or
ordinance imposing an income tax shall be commenced within three years after
the commission of the offense, provided that in the case of fraud, failure to
file a return or the omission of 25% or more of income required to be reported,
prosecutions may be commenced within six years after the commission of the
offense.
   (C)   A claim for a refund of municipal income taxes shall be brought within
the time limitation provided in R.C. § 718.19.
   (D)   Interest shall be allowed and paid on any overpayment by a taxpayer of
any municipal income tax obligation from the date of the overpayment until the
date of the refund of the overpayment, except that if any overpayment is
refunded within 90 days after the final filing date of the annual return or 90
days after the completed return is filed, whichever is later, no interest shall
be allowed on the refund. For the purpose of computing the payment of interest
on amounts overpaid, no amount of tax for any taxable year shall be considered
to have been paid before the date on which the return on which the tax is
reported is due, without regard to any extension of time for filing that
return. Interest shall be paid at the interest rate described in R.C. § 718.27
(A)(5).
   (E)   Within 60 days after the final determination of any federal or state
tax liability affecting the taxpayer’s municipal tax liability, that taxpayer
shall make and file an amended municipal return showing income subject to the
municipal income tax based upon such final determination of federal or state
tax liability, and pay any additional municipal income tax shown due thereon or
make a claim for refund of any overpayment, unless the tax or overpayment is
less than $10.
   (F)   (1)   Notwithstanding the fact that an appeal is pending, the
petitioner may pay all or a portion of the assessment that is the subject of
the appeal. The acceptance of a payment by the municipal corporation does not
prejudice any claim for refund upon final determination of the appeal.
      (2)   If, upon final determination of the appeal, an error in the
assessment is corrected by the Tax Administrator, upon an appeal so filed or
pursuant to a final determination of the local board of tax review, created
under R.C. § 718.11, of the state board of tax appeals, or any court to which
the decision of the State board of tax appeals has been appealed, so that the
amount due from the party assessed under the corrected assessment is less than
the amount paid, there shall be issued to the appellant or to the appellant’s
assigns or legal representative a refund in the amount of the overpayment as
provided by R.C. § 718.19, with interest on that amount as provided by division
(D) above.
   (G)   No civil action to recover municipal income tax or related penalties
or interest shall be brought during either of the following time periods:
      (1)   The period during which a taxpayer has a right to appeal the
imposition of that tax or interest or those penalties; and
      (2)   The period during which an appeal related to the imposition of that
tax or interest or those penalties is pending.
(R.C. § 718.12) (Prior Code, § 35.19.01)
§ 37.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, whoever violates R.C. §§
718.35, 718.13(A) or 718.03 by failing to remit municipal income taxes deducted
and withheld from an employee, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree and shall be subject to a fine of not more than $1,000 or imprisonment
for a term of up to six months, or both, unless the violation is punishable by
a municipal ordinance or resolution imposing a greater penalty or requiring
dismissal from office or discharge from employment, or both, in which case the
municipal ordinance or resolution shall govern.
   (B)   Any person who discloses information received from the Internal
Revenue Service in violation of R.C.§ 718.13(A) shall be guilty of a felony of
the fifth degree and shall be subject to a fine of not more than $5,000 plus
the costs of prosecution, or imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years,
or both, unless the violation is punishable by a municipal ordinance imposing a
greater penalty or requiring dismissal from office or discharge from
employment, or both, in which case the municipal ordinance shall govern.
   (C)   Each instance of access or disclosure in violation of R.C. § 718.13(A)
constitutes a separate offense.
   (D)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a municipal corporation from
prosecuting offenses which are made punishable under a municipal ordinance or
resolution levying an income tax and for which no other penalty is provided
under this section.
(R.C § 718.99) (Prior Code, § 35.99.01)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   PUBLIC UTILITIES
      
51.   WATER REGULATIONS
      
52.   SEWER REGULATIONS
      
53.   GARBAGE
      
54.   RECYCLING
CHAPTER 50: PUBLIC UTILITIES
Section
   
50.01   Taps; connections to sanitary sewer, storm sewer and waterlines
   
50.02   Water rates
   
50.03   Water service connection rates
   
50.04   Lien permitted for non-payment of sanitation bills
   
50.05   Unpaid utility charges
   
50.06   Shut off procedure; abatement policy
§ 50.01 TAPS; CONNECTIONS TO SANITARY SEWER, STORM SEWER AND WATERLINES.
   The rates to be charged for taps and connections to sanitary sewers, storm
sewers and waterlines within or without the corporate limits of the city shall
be as established by City Council.
(Prior Code, § 5.01.01)
§ 50.02 WATER RATES.
   (A)   For the purpose of paying the expenses of conducting and managing the
waterworks of a municipal corporation, including operating expenses and the
costs of permanent improvements, the Director of Public Service or any other
city official or body authorized by charter, may assess and collect a water
rent or charge of sufficient amount and in such manner as the Director, other
official or body determines to be most equitable from all tenements and
premises supplied with water.
      (1)   When water rents or charges are not paid when due, the Director, or
other official or body, may do either or both of the following:
         (a)   1.   Certify them, together with any penalties, to the County
Auditor. The County Auditor shall place the certified amount on the real
property tax list and duplicate against the property served by the connection
if the Auditor also receives from the Director, or other official or body,
additional certification that the unpaid rents or charges have arisen pursuant
to a service contract made directly with an owner who occupies the property
served.
            2.   The amount placed on the tax list and duplicate shall be a
lien on the property served from the date placed on the list and duplicate and
shall be collected in the same manner as other taxes, except that,
notwithstanding R.C. § 323.15, a County Treasurer shall accept a payment in
such amount when separately tendered as payment for the full amount of such
unpaid water rents or charges and associated penalties. The lien shall be
released immediately upon payment in full of the certified amount. Any amounts
collected by the County Treasurer under this division (A)(1)(a)2. shall be
immediately placed in the distinct fund established by R.C. § 743.06.
         (b)   Collect them by actions at law, in the name of the city from an
owner, tenant or other person who is liable to pay the rents or charges.
      (2)   The Director or other official body shall not certify to the County
Auditor for placement upon the tax list and duplicate and the County Auditor
shall not place upon the tax list and duplicate as a charge against the
property the amount of any unpaid water rents or charges together with any
penalties as described in division (A)(1)(a) above if any of the following
apply:
         (a)   The property served by the connection has been transferred or
sold to an electing subdivision, as defined in R.C. § 5722.01, regardless of
whether the electing subdivision is still the owner of the property, and the
unpaid water rents or charges together with any penalties have arisen from a
period of time prior to the transfer or confirmation of sale to the electing
subdivision;
         (b)   The property served by the connection has been sold to a
purchaser at Sheriff’s sale or Auditor’s sale, the unpaid water rents or
charges together with any penalties have arisen from a period of time prior to
the confirmation of sale, and the purchaser is not the owner of record of the
property immediately prior to the judgment of foreclosure nor any of the
following:
            1.   A member of that owner’s immediate family;
            2.   A person with a power of attorney appointed by that owner who
subsequently transfers the land to the owner;
            3.   A sole proprietorship owned by that owner or a member of that
owner’s immediate family; and
            4.   A partnership, trust, business trust, corporation or
association of which the owner or a member of the owner’s immediate family owns
or controls, directly or indirectly, more than 50%.
         (c)   The property served by the connection has been forfeited to this
state for delinquent taxes, unless the owner of record redeems the property.
      (3)   Upon valid written notice to the County Auditor by any owner
possessing an ownership interest of record of the property or by an electing
subdivision previously in the chain of title of the property that the unpaid
water rents or charges together with any penalties have been certified for
placement or placed upon the tax list and duplicate as a charge against the
property in violation of division (A)(2) above, the County Auditor shall
promptly remove such charge from the tax duplicate. This written notice to the
County Auditor shall include all of the following:
         (a)   The parcel number of the property;
         (b)   The common address of the property;
         (c)   The date of the recording of the transfer of the property to the
owner or electing subdivision; and
         (d)   The charge allegedly placed in violation of division (A)(2)
above.
      (4)   Each Director, or other official or body, that assesses water rents
or charges shall determine the actual amount of rents due based upon an actual
reading of each customer’s meter at least once in each three-month period, and,
at least quarterly, the Director, or other official or body, shall render a
bill for the actual amount shown by the meter reading to be due, except
estimated bills may be rendered if access to a customer’s meter was
unobtainable for a timely reading. Each Director, or other official or body,
that assesses water rents or charges shall establish procedures providing fair
and reasonable opportunity for resolution of billing disputes.
      (5)   When property to which water service is provided is about to be
sold, any party to the sale or the agent of any such party may request the
Director, or other official or body, to read the meter at that property and to
render within ten days following the date on which the request is made, a final
bill for all outstanding rents and charges for water service. Such a request
shall be made at least 14 days prior to the transfer of the title of such
property.
      (6)   At any time prior to a certification under division (A)(1)(a)
above, the Director or other official or body shall accept any partial payment
of unpaid water rents or charges, in the amount of $10 or more.
   (B)   (1)   (a)   When title to a parcel of land that is subject to any of
the actions described in division (A)(1) above is transferred to a county land
reutilization corporation, any lien placed on the parcel under division (A)(1)
(a) above shall be extinguished, and the corporation shall not be held liable
for unpaid rents or charges in any collection action brought under division (A)
(1)(b) above, if the rents or charges certified under division (A)(1)(a) above
or subject to collection under division (A)(1)(b) above were incurred before
the date of the transfer to the corporation and if the corporation did not
incur the rents or charges, regardless of whether the rents or charges were
certified, the lien was attached or the action was brought before the date of
transfer. In such a case, the corporation and its successors in title shall
take title to the property free and clear of any such lien and shall be immune
from liability in any such collection action.
         (b)   If a county land reutilization corporation takes title to
property before any rents or charges have been certified or any lien has been
placed with respect to the property under division (A)(1) above, the
corporation shall be deemed a bona fide purchaser for value without knowledge
of such rents, charges or lien, regardless of whether the corporation had
actual or constructive knowledge of the rents, charges or lien, and any such
lien shall be void and unenforceable against the corporation and its successors
in title.
      (2)   If a lien placed on a parcel is extinguished as provided in
division (B)(1) above, the municipal corporation may pursue the remedy
available under division (A)(1)(b) above to recoup the rents and charges
incurred with respect to the parcel from any owner, tenant or other person
liable to pay such rents and charges.
(Prior Code, § 5.01.02)
§ 50.03 WATER SERVICE CONNECTION RATES.
   The fee to be charged for making a water service connection within or
without the corporate limits of the city shall be established by City Council.
(Prior Code, § 5.01.03)
§ 50.04 LIEN PERMITTED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF SANITATION BILLS.
   The City Manager or the City Auditor are permitted to file a lien against
the property taxes of property for non-payment of sanitation bills.
(Ord. 33-21, passed 5-10-2021)
§ 50.05 UNPAID UTILITY CHARGES.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose and intent of this section is to
penalize late utility charges in order to encourage timely payment of utility
charges incurred under this Title V.
   (B)   Definition. For purposes of this section, UTILITY means all water,
sewer and trash charges, including, but not limited to, any and all charges
arising from this Title V and any and all charges arising from an enacted
ordinance or resolution relating to, amending or supplementing this Title V.
   (C)   Unpaid charges a lien; owner liable.
      (1)   Each and all utility charges are made a lien upon the corresponding
lot, parcel of land, building or premises served by a connection to the water
system of the city, and if the same is not paid within 60 days after it becomes
due and payable, it shall be certified to the County Auditor, who shall place
the certified amount on the real property tax list and duplicate of the
property served by the connection. A penalty charge of 10% on the amount that
is due and payable shall be added to the certified amount, plus an
administrative charge for handling of $50. The total certified amount shall be
collected as other taxes are collected. The city shall provide the owner of
property with written notice of the impending certification at least 30 days
prior to the certification. For any procedure not specified in this section,
refer to R.C. § 743.04.
      (2)   The city may also collect unpaid utility charges by actions at law,
from an owner, tenant or other person who is liable to pay the charges.
      (3)   The owners of real estate premises installing or maintaining
utility service shall be liable for all utility charges incurred for service at
said premises.
      (4)   The division will directly bill a tenant for utility service if the
property owner, or authorized agent of the property owner, along with the
tenant, sign a written agreement authorizing direct billing of the tenant. Once
a written agreement is signed, the division will simultaneously mail, to both
the owner and the tenant, if requested, copies of any bills and notices
concerning delinquent utility charges. This requirement shall affect contracts
made on or after the effective date of this division (C)(4).
      (5)   Direct billing of a tenant shall be in no way construed as to
relieve the owner of the real estate premises of liability for utility service
charges. No direct billing of a tenant will be allowed where all delinquent
utility charges are not paid in full up until the date the direct billing
agreement is accepted by the city, or where utility service has been terminated
for real estate premises.
      (6)   The owner of real estate premises by installing or maintaining
utility service from the city is deemed to assent to all rules and regulations
of the appropriate Utility Department and ordinances of the city pertaining to
utility service and distribution.
(Ord. 80-21, passed 9-27-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.06 SHUT OFF PROCEDURE; ABATEMENT POLICY.
   (A)   Customers who experience utility service shutoff must pay their full
balance owed plus a shut off fee of $75 before service can be reconnected or
reinstated. This includes past due balances, the most recent balance, the shut
off fee of $75 and all other charges owed at the time of proposed reconnection.
Once this payment is made, it is understood that the balance of the customer
account will now owe $0, to be eligible for reconnection.
   (B)   There shall be a two-tier premium for water loss abatement policies
for the city; $30 for $500 in coverage; and $50 for $1,000 in coverage. The
abatement policy is a premium paid that covers the policy holder for up to the
coverage amount if their utility bill is excessive due to a leak for water loss
event.
(Ord. 87-21, passed 11-8-2021)
CHAPTER 51: WATER REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Title
   
51.02   Responsibility of property owner
   
51.03   Service denied to delinquent users
   
51.04   Wasted water charged for
   
51.05   Water rates
   
51.06   Cost of water connection
   
51.07   Sewer service
   
51.08   Meters required
   
51.09   Conservation of water supply
   
51.10   Fees
   
51.11   Payment plans
   
51.12   Commercial and industrial meter maintenance
   
51.13   Seasonal water service
   
51.14   Water responsibility, city and customer
   
51.15   Deposit and turn on charge
   
51.16   Backflow prevention; cross-connection control
Termination Policies
   
51.20   Definitions
   
51.21   Utility service termination policy
   
51.22   Notice procedures
   
51.23   Disconnection
   
51.24   Voluntary termination services
   
51.25   Hearing procedures
   
51.26   Non-discrimination against consumers
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as, referred to or cited as the “Water Rates,
Connection Costs and Service Termination Policy for the City of Nelsonville,
Athens County, Ohio”, and hereinafter referred to as “this chapter”.
(Prior Code, § 5.03.01)
§ 51.02 RESPONSIBILITY OF PROPERTY OWNER.
   (A)   When a person, other than a property owner, makes application for
water service, the property owner shall sign the application along with the
applicant and both parties shall be held jointly and severally responsible for
the payment of water charges. Unless otherwise specified, bills will be
rendered to the applicant only, but the property owner will be notified if a
bill for water charges is delinquent.
   (B)   Where more than one occupant or tenant is served through one meter,
the property owner will be held directly responsible for the payment of all
bills pertaining to the use of water.
(Prior Code, § 5.03.02)
§ 51.03 SERVICE DENIED TO DELINQUENT USERS.
   No water shall be supplied to any applicant or property owner who is
delinquent in the payment of water or sewer bills, or who is indebted to the
City Utility Department for material, supplies or work done, or in any other
manner, until such indebtedness has been paid, whether that indebtedness was
incurred at the premises for which service is supplied or at any other place
within or without the city; and the City Utility Department reserves to itself
the right to shut off the water from the premises of such applicant so
delinquent upon 48 hour notice. A delinquent water bill shall be defined as a
water bill remaining unpaid for 30 days or more after the due date.
(Prior Code, § 5.03.03) (Ord. 55-18, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 51.04 WASTED WATER CHARGED FOR.
   All water that passes through a meter shall be charged for, whether used,
wasted or lost. The City Manager may grant relief to the requirement when a
water line breaks between the meter and the serviced building. With a
verifiable break, the water and sewer charges shall be assessed for that month
based upon the average monthly usage of the previous six months.
(Prior Code, § 5.03.04)
§ 51.05 WATER RATES.
   (A)   Rates established. The prices to be charged for water furnished by the
City Utility Department to all consumers situated within or without the city,
on all billings payable after the regular meter reading be the same are hereby
affixed as follows or established or amended by the City Manager.
   (B)   Schedule of rates.
      (1)   Monthly minimum. Effective on January 1, 2022, the product and
services furnished by the municipal water works system of the city shall be
charged for at the following rates.
         (a)   For service within the city limits, there is hereby established
a monthly minimum bill of $22.45 against which the first 1,500 gallons used
shall be credited. Over the first 1,500 gallons used, the cost shall be $14.93
per 1,000 gallons. For service outside the city limits, there is hereby
established a monthly minimum bill of $33.68 against which the first 1,500
gallons used shall be credited. Over the first 1,500 gallons used, the cost
shall be $22.39 per 1,000 gallons.
         (b)   Obtaining bulk water from City Hall shall be at a rate of
$0.0108 per gallon of water.
      (2)   Schedule B - Non-metered service.
         (a)   Class 1: Public fire protection.
            1.   A hydrant rental shall be paid to the city at the rate of $50
per year for each hydrant not in excess of 50 and $40 per year for each hydrant
in the excess of 50, payable semi-annually on June 1 and December 1.
            2.   A hydrant rental for all privately owned hydrants, or publicly
owned outside the corporate limits, shall be paid by the owners thereof at the
rate of $50 per year, payable semi-annually on June 1 and December 1.
         (b)   Class 2: Other non-metered service. The following rates for non-
metered service shall be charged for the following specified uses:
            1.   For use in the construction of a frame dwelling not exceeding
seven rooms - $12.25 per month;
            2.   For use in the construction of a frame dwelling exceeding
seven rooms - $12.25 plus $1.75 for each room over in excess of seven rooms per
month;
            3.   For use the construction of a stone brick or concrete dwelling
not exceeding seven rooms - $22.50 per month;
            4.   For use in the construction of a stone brick or concrete
dwelling exceeding seven rooms - $22.50 plus $4.00 for each room over in excess
of seven rooms per month; and
            5.   For filling tanks and tank trucks - $3.50 for each 1,000
gallons or part thereof.
      (3)   Schedule C - Commencement and discontinuance of water. A charge of
$10 shall be made for shutting off water service at the time of its
discontinuance and a similar charge shall be made for turning on such service
at the time of the resumption whether or not such discontinuance of water
service involves the physical shutting off the water service and subsequent
turning it on.
(Prior Code, § 5.03.05) (Order dated 12-7-2021)
§ 51.06 COST OF WATER CONNECTION.
   (A)   The following charges to all consumers applying for connection to the
municipal water works system shall be assessed for the cost of the meter,
including installation thereof and for curb connect installed by the city
unless the cost of such connection has been or first to be assessed.
 
Meter Size Curb Connection Charge
3/4-inch   $1,300
1-inch     $2,700
 
   (B)   Meters in size greater than one inch and curb connections therefor
after shall be installed by the consumer at his own expense but under the
supervision of the City Manager, or his or her employee, and a fee of $30 shall
be paid for supervision and inspection of such installation and connection.
   (C)   All rates may also be established or amended by separate City Council
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 5.03.06)
§ 51.07 SEWER SERVICE.
   (A)   All users of the wastewater system shall be billed for sewer service.
   (B)   No user will be granted free service.
   (C)   Sewer service charges shall be collected and payment enforced in
accordance with the applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   All occupied structures having wastewater collection available via the
city’s wastewater distribution system, and required to be equipped with
facilities for the disposal of any human or animal excrement, sanitary sewage,
garbage, industrial wastes or other objectionable waste shall discharge such
wastes only into the wastewater collection system of the city.
(Prior Code, § 5.03.07) (Ord. 31-16, passed 6-27-2016)
§ 51.08 METERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   All properties shall be metered. So long as a meter is in service,
whether in use or not, the customer and the property owner shall be liable for
the minimum monthly charge. All occupied structures with sanitary and/or
cooking facilities having water available via the city’s water distribution
system shall be supplied with potable water from the City Water Works and not
from an alternative supply system except by approval of the City Manager.
   (B)   Campgrounds may be run off a single water meter. Billing shall be done
in accordance with then current regulation. A campground shall be defined as is
contained in Ohio Administrative Code 3701-26-01.
(Prior Code, § 5.03.08) (Ord. 31-16, passed 6-27-2016; Ord. 66-22, passed 9-26-
2022) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.09 CONSERVATION OF WATER SUPPLY.
   In the event of a serious fire or water shortage or when for any cause it is
necessary, in the judgment of the City Manager, to conserve the water supply by
limiting the use thereof, such order as shall be made by the City Manager, or
his or her authorized agent, to that end shall be obeyed by all users of water
affected by such order, and the city shall not be responsible for any damages
resulting from any such limited use.
(Prior Code, § 5.03.09)
§ 51.10 FEES.
   (A)   Fees.
3/4-inch water tap                                   $1,800
1-inch water tap                                     $3,200
After hours callout                                  $150
After hours shut off or turn on                      $150
New water customers                                  $50
Reconnection fee                                     $75
Restoration hours 8:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. street bond $2,000
Sewer tap                                            $200
Water shut off/turn on                               $25
 
   (B)   Temporary disconnection. 
      (1)   Temporary disconnection of service due to vacation and the like, a
minimum rate charge per month; plus shut off/turn on fee. These fees must be
paid prior to services being restored.
      (2)   If temporary disconnection is requested and property owner does not
want to pay the minimum, removal of meter at cost of $250 and reinstallation of
meter is $350.
(Ord. 55-18, passed 12-3-2018; Ord. 06-22, passed 2-14-2022)
§ 51.11 PAYMENT PLANS.
   (A)   Payment plans include the following:
      (1)   Zero dollars to $1,000 owed: nine equal monthly payments;
      (2)   One thousand and one dollars to $5,000 owed: 15 equal monthly
payments; and
      (3)   Five thousand and one dollars and up owed: 24 equal monthly
payments.
   (B)   (1)   Property owner must keep current bill up to date.
      (2)   Property owner must sign a payment plan agreement.
      (3)   After three late payments, property owner is removed from payment
plan and will not be placed back on payment plan until in good standing for six
months.
      (4)   Set shut off dates are usually thirteenth and fifteenth of each
month.
(Ord. 55-18, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 51.12 COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL METER MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   All commercial customers must have their commercial water meters
tested for flow rate compliance every three years or less. Results shall be
provided to the city water office with a copy of all maintenance and inspection
records.
   (B)   All commercial customers will be given one year from the date the
ordinance incorporated herein goes into effect to have an initial test
performed. The city will be using the AWWA (American Water Works Association)
M6 Water Meters - Selection, Installation, Testing and Maintenance, Fifth
Edition (November 2018) or newer manual for flow rates.
   (C)   All commercial meters not in compliance with AWWA M6 shall be repaired
or replaced by the user. After repair or replacement, the water office shall be
provided with compliant records. Failure to comply will result in the city
contracting a third-party testing agency to perform the required test and
repairs. All fees will be assessed to the property owner.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 2-8-2021)
§ 51.13 SEASONAL WATER SERVICE.
   For seasonal customers wanting service turned off for six months or less,
there will not be a minimum water bill during the shut off period. The customer
will be billed the standard fee for turning on or off service each time the
service is requested. This service is only available during normal business
hours.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 2-8-2021)
§ 51.14 WATER RESPONSIBILITY, CITY AND CUSTOMER.
   (A)   Outside meter settings:
      (1)   NUD (the city’s Utility Department) responsibility: The portion of
the service line from the main to and including the meter vault including in
such portion, any valve, meter, coupling and meter vault with its cover.
      (2)   Property owner responsibility: The portion of the service line
beyond the meter vault on the customer’s premises.
   (B)   (1)   If any person applies for and is granted permission to tap for
distribution of water on private property through private water distribution
fines, the distribution lines, exclusive of those within buildings on the
premises, shall be built to the specifications of and subject to inspection by
the city.
      (2)   All private distribution lines shall be maintained in a good,
adequate and sanitary condition and maintenance shall be the obligation and at
the expense of the property owner, and the property owner shall indemnify and
save harmless the city from any and all loss it may sustain by reason of the
property owner failing to comply with the maintenance provisions set forth.
      (3)   There will be a valve right off the city owned main that the
customer will hold responsibility to obtain and install at his or her cost, and
this will be the paint of the end of the city’s responsibility.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 2-8-2021) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.15 DEPOSIT AND TURN ON CHARGE.
   There shall be no deposits for new customers; instead the city will charge a
one-time turn on charge of $50.
(Ord. 04-21, passed 2-8-2021)
§ 51.16 BACKFLOW PREVENTION; CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL.
   (A)   The City Manager shall be responsible for the protection of the city’s
water supply system from contamination or pollution due to backflow or back
siphonage of contaminants, pollutants or other inimical substances which create
or may create danger or hazard to the health of users and consumers of city
drinking water.
   (B)   The necessity of need of a backflow prevention device at any point
where drinking water supplied by the city’s public water system is located on
or enters a consumer’s premises (consumer’s water system) shall be determined
by the City Manager in the exercise of the City Manager’s sole discretion. A
plumbing system of or in any household or any structure on the consumer’s
premises for delivery of water is considered to be a consumer’s water system
subject to this section.
   (C)   (1)   When the City Manager determines based on the inspection or
information that a backflow prevention assembly or device is required at any
service connection to premises which obtain water from the city, the City
Manager shall give written notice to the owner(s) of the property upon which a
residence or other structure is located that the owner(s) shall install an
appropriate backflow prevention device or assembly at each service connection
to the premises within the time period specified by the City Manager. 
      (2)   The owner(s) of said premises shall install the backflow prevention
device or assembly specified by the City Manager at the owner’s cost and at no
cost to the city.
   (D)   (1)   The City Manager shall be responsible to ensure that the initial
installation and testing of the backflow prevention device or assembly has been
done property and in accordance with the requirements of this section and
applicable laws and regulations. The City Manager shall be authorized to view
the installation and enter the property where the installation has been done.
      (2)   Thereafter, the owner(s) of the premises shall be responsible for
ensuring implementation of annual testing and upgrades and renewal requirements
for the backflow prevention device and assembly.
      (3)   The owner shall keep records of such testing and upgrades for
review by the City Manager.
      (4)   The City Manager is authorized to enter private property to
determine the conditions of the service connection to prevent a public health
hazard from occurring or continuing.
   (E)   (1)   The owner(s) failure, refusal or inability to install said
backflow prevention device or assembly required by the City Manager shall
constitute grounds for the prompt termination of the water service to the
owner’s premises to protect the public safety and health of the consumers of
the city drinking water. In addition, the owner(s) of the premises shall be
liable for the penalties set forth herein and any applicable local, state or
federal laws related to the safe drinking water for violations thereof.
      (2)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
owner(s) have corrected or eliminated all conditions or defects found at the
premises to the satisfaction of the City Manager and as set forth in the O.A.C.
3745-95-08 (2018).
   (F)   This section implements the requirements of R.C. Chapter 6109 and the
O.A.C. Chapter 3745-95, which is the intent of this section.
(R.C. § 715.67)
(Ord. 23-22, passed 3-14-2022) Penalty, see §
51.99
TERMINATION POLICIES
§ 51.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BILLING ADDRESS. The address at which the customer contractually liable for
utility services furnished to a service address receives billing from the
service city. BILLING ADDRESSES may, but need not, be the address at which said
services are received.
   CITY MANAGER. Shall be empowered and required (when good cause is shown) to
cancel disconnection and/or order reconnection. This does not preclude the
waiving of any turn on/disconnect administrative fees. The CITY MANAGER shall
strive to arrange reasonable alternate methods of payment of the past due
amount for payment, in order to preserve utility service, and shall maintain
residential utility service, without discrimination. The CITY MANAGER, or his
or her designated representative, shall preside at hearings held pursuant to
these rules.
   CONSUMER. Any person who is the ultimate user of utility services provided
by the service city.
   CONSUMER HOUSEHOLD. Any service address in which the customer who is
contractually liable for utility services furnished to that address does not
reside.
   CUSTOMER. Any person or entity who enters into a contractual agreement with
the service city to receive or to pay for utility services provided by the
service city. CUSTOMERS may, but need not, be consumers of the services
provided under such a contractual agreement.
   CUSTOMER HOUSEHOLD. Any service address in which the customer who is
contractually liable for utility services furnished to that address resides.
   SERVICE ADDRESS. Any individual address at which utility services are
furnished a consumer or customer. The singular may include the plural. Most
SERVICE ADDRESSES will be individually metered. However, in apartment
buildings, apartment complexes, duplex apartments and the like, one meter may
supply more than one household. In such circumstances, each individual
apartment is a separate SERVICE ADDRESS as that term is used herein.
(Prior Code, § 5.03.20)
§ 51.21 UTILITY SERVICE TERMINATION POLICY.
   (A)   Utility service to customer or consumer households will be
disconnected or terminated (hereinafter “disconnection”) by the city only for
the following reasons:
      (1)   Nonpayment;
      (2)   Emergencies, repairs and replacement of lines;
      (3)   At customer request, provided that the approval of both the
customer and consumer of services for that service address is necessary if any
service address affected by the request is a consumer; and
      (4)   (a)   If, upon physical examination, the city obtains reasonable
grounds for and has a good faith belief that R.C. §§ 4933.18 or 4933.19 have
been violated by use of a jumper or other by-pass mechanism:
            1.   Prior to installation of check valves or backflow protection;
or
            2.   Which results in bypassing and negating such valves or
protection.
         (b)   While the city must otherwise satisfy the requirements of these
rules, utility service may be terminated immediately upon that discovery,
without notice or opportunity for hearing prior to termination. However, in
such circumstances, if a customer or consumer household affected by such
termination thereafter requests a hearing, and establishes that the offending
condition has been remedied; utility service will be reinstated, conditioned on
continuing good behavior, although the city does not thereby waive any right of
prosecution otherwise granted under the law.
   (B)   Water service restoration shall only occur Monday through Friday
between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m.
   (C)   If it is determined that water service was restored at a service
address by anyone other than City Utility Department personnel, it will be
immediately disconnected by City Utility Department personnel, the meter
locked-out, all past and current water bill amounts paid in full along with a
$75 reconnection fee before water service will be restored. Criminal
prosecution may also be considered in accordance with city ordinances and R.C.
§ 4933.22.
   (D)   (1)   If water service is disconnected at any address by the city and
is discovered to have been reconnected by someone other than a city employee,
water service will be immediately disconnected by the city, a lock placed upon
the meter, a meter reading will be immediately taken and the service account
will be adjusted to include all water registered on the meter since the last
reading at shutoff. The service account must be then paid in full, plus the $75
reconnection fee, before water service can be restored to the account.
      (2)   Except as set forth in divisions (B) and (D) above, disconnections,
other than those with approval of both the customer and consumer of service,
may not occur without proper notice and adequate opportunity for hearing before
termination. These rules shall be complied with by all Utility Department
employees. No disconnection of service shall occur except after compliance with
these rules.
(Prior Code, § 5.03.21) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.22 NOTICE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   Written notice of proposed disconnection of service for non-
payment, for any reason, other than voluntary disconnection where the customer
asking for disconnection is also the only consumer at the address, must be sent
by the city at least five days and no more than ten days prior to the date for
proposed disconnection.
      (2)   Notices may be mailed with first class postage prepaid to
reasonably assure delivery within that time. The date of the notice shall be
the date of mailing, and a dated copy of any notice sent shall be retained by
the city.
      (3)   The notice shall include:
         (a)   Identifying information, including the service address to be
affected, the account number, the customer’s name and address and the identity
and address of the provider;
         (b)   The minimum amount due for payment to avoid disconnection; and
         (c)   The date proposed for disconnection if the account is not paid
or hearing requested.
   (B)   Notices shall clearly and conspicuously advise any recipient of his or
her due process rights. The notice shall be given in a termination letter which
will set forth the procedure for requesting a hearing. If a hearing is
requested, the disconnection will not take place until the hearing process is
completed. The notice in the termination letter shall include the following:
      (1)   The reason for disconnection or termination of service;
      (2)   The front of the envelope shall be stamped or printed in ink:
“FINAL NOTICE: FAILURE TO PAY WILL RESULT IN SHUT-OFF”; and
      (3)   (a)   The letter shall also include the following statements.
            “You may avoid termination by taking one or more of the following
actions prior to the scheduled termination date:
            If you personally owe utility service charges which are past due,
you should pay the past due balance in full.
            If you dispute the reason for the proposed termination, in whole or
part, you may request a hearing to contest termination. If a hearing is
requested before the scheduled date for termination, termination will not take
place until the hearing process is complete. If you request a hearing, you have
the right to examine records concerning this service address; to bring a
representative to help you at the hearing; and to bring witnesses to testify on
your behalf;
            If water service is disconnected at any address by the city and is
discovered to have been reconnected by someone other than a city employee,
water service will be immediately disconnected by the city, a lock placed upon
the meter, a meter reading will be immediately taken and the service account
will be adjusted to include all water registered on the meter since the last
reading at shutoff. The service account must be then paid in full, plus the $75
reconnection fee, before water service can be restored to the account.
            If you wish to avoid termination, or to request a hearing, or wish
a more complete explanation of your hearing rights or your rights to assume
responsibility for future utility charges, you should immediately contact the
City Manager at the address and telephone number listed in this letter between
the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday.”
         (b)   The notice specified herein shall state: “FINAL NOTICE IF YOU
HAVE ANY QUESTIONS OR DISPUTES ABOUT THIS BILL, CALL THE CITY OF NELSONVILLE”.
   (C)   In the event any service address that would be disconnected is a
consumer household, notice of disconnection of service, in the form and manner
specified herein, must be delivered to each service address so affected, in
addition to delivery to the customer household.
(Prior Code, § 5.03.22)
§ 51.23 DISCONNECTION.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions in §
51.22(B) and (C), if water service to a household is disconnected or
terminated, and no hearing has been requested, at the time of disconnection, a
“notice of termination of utility service” will be left on the property by a
city representative. A copy of the notice is designated hereto as “Exhibit 3”
of the enabling ordinance. If disconnection or termination is due to the
consumer or customer failing to prevail in a hearing, the termination notice
will not be left at the property and service will only be restored by the
payment due as determined by the hearing.
   (B)   (1)   If, after a copy of the “Exhibit 3” disconnection notice is left
on the property in a conspicuous place (at the front door if possible), the
customer or consumer believes a mistake has been made and that the water
service should not have been disconnected, the customer or consumer may contact
the city. After receiving the complaint, the City Manager shall direct the
utility office to coordinate reconnecting the water service only if he or she
believes, after reasonable inquiry, that a mistake has been made as to the
following:
         (a)   The customer/consumer has not been mailed the final termination
notice; or
         (b)   The customer/consumer has arranged a payment plan with the
utility office which superseded the final termination notice.
      (2)   In the case of (B)(1)(a) above, water service shall be reconnected
and the final termination notice provided to the customer/consumer. In the case
of (B)(1)(b) above, water service shall be reconnected and a final termination
notice sent to the customer/consumer if the person fails to make payment under
the alternative payment plan agreed to. If the City Manager determines that a
mistake has not been made as to the disconnection, that fact shall be
communicated to the customer/consumer, and the City Manager shall also
communicate to the customer/consumer that he or she has the right to a hearing.
(Prior Code, § 5.03.23)
§ 51.24 VOLUNTARY TERMINATION SERVICES.
   (A)   Upon receiving a request for voluntary disconnection, if the city’s
records reveal that the service address is different from the billing address
for that account, or if there is other reason to believe disconnection may
affect a service address comprised of a household other than, or in addition
to, the customer’s household, the city shall:
      (1)   Send a copy of any final notice to the service address; and
      (2)   Send a copy of any customer’s voluntary termination of water
service notice to the service address.
   (B)   Both the customer requesting a voluntary disconnection and the
resident living at the service address must complete the form designated as
“Exhibit 1” attached to the enabling ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 5.03.24)
§ 51.25 HEARING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Persons who wish to contest a denial of utility service or the city’s
decision as to billing or a proposed disconnection of utility services
(hereafter “the person”) shall be afforded a due process opportunity to contest
the provider’s action or inaction prior to termination of service.
   (B)   Due process opportunity is the right to a face-to-face meeting with
the City Manager, at which time a person may:
      (1)   Have the assistance of a representative; and
      (2)   May present documentary and/or oral information and/or the
testimony of witnesses for the City Manager’s and utility office personnel
consideration.
   (C)   These persons shall be entitled to reasonable access to the city’s
business records or utility office employees concerning the affected service
address in order to prepare for the meeting, which right of access includes the
right to obtain copies of documents found therein upon payment of the actual
cost of copying. The City Manager shall make a written decision after the
hearing and give the reasons for the decision. A copy of the decision shall be
delivered to the person, a copy shall be retained in a special decisions file
and a copy retained in the business files kept by the city relating to any
service address affected by the hearing.
   (D)   Due process hearings shall be held within a reasonable time after a
verbal or written hearing request has been made, but will not be held so
quickly as to deny the person an adequate opportunity to seek assistance or to
prepare for the hearing, in light of the person’s circumstances. The hearing
decision shall be sent to the person within a reasonable time after the
hearing. If a hearing has been requested prior to actual disconnection of
service, no disconnection may occur until five days after the hearing decision
is delivered to the person who requested the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 5.03.24.01)
§ 51.26 NON-DISCRIMINATION AGAINST CONSUMERS.
   (A)   (1)   If service is disconnected, or if disconnection is proposed, due
to a customer’s nonpayment of service charges for a consumer household, an
adult consumer of utility services in said household shall have the right to
avoid disconnection, or obtain reconnection, if the consumer pays a $75 deposit
and assumes written responsibility for timely payment of future charges for
service provided the household at the service address.
      (2)   Consumer assumption does not relieve the customer of contractual
liability for charges incurred. The assumption obligation shall terminate upon
the consumer’s delivery to the city of a written notice canceling that
assumption.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any customer concerning any service
address in which resides the customer obligated for payment of the account for
that service address. However, in circumstances in which one meter serves more
than one service address, consumer households will not be penalized in any way
or denied the benefit of this provision, because the defaulting customer’s
benefitted unit might also benefit from a continuation or restoration of
service.
   (C)   (1)   The city shall not refuse to furnish utility service and/or
propose to or disconnect utility service to any customer or consumer household
on account of arrearages due the city for utility services furnished to persons
formerly receiving services at the same premises, provided the customers
obligated on that delinquent account do not continue to reside at such
premises.
      (2)   Applicants who are denied utility service shall be notified of that
decision, and the reason for it, by use of the form attached as “Exhibit 2” to
the enabling ordinance, at the time of the denial. No consumer of utility may
be denied services because of, or billed for or required to pay for utility
services furnished on the account of another individual, except to the extent
of any assumption obligation previously assumed by that consumer pursuant to
this section.
(Prior Code, § 5.03.24.02)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.30 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who shall violate any provisions of the chapter shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in an
amount not exceeding $150 for each violation. Each day in which any such
violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
      (2)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter, other
than §
51.16, shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage
occasioned the city by reason of such violation.
   (C)   Water/sewer late penalties will be increased to $10 per month.
   (D)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
51.16 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be subject
to a fine of not more than $500 and imprisonment not to exceed six months. Each
violation shall be deemed a separate offense.
(R.C. § 715.67) (Prior Code, § 5.03.99) (Ord. 04-21, passed 2-8-2021; Ord. 23-
22, passed 3-14-2022)
CHAPTER 52: SEWER REGULATIONS
Section
   
52.01   Introduction
   
52.02   Title
   
52.03   Purpose and intent
   
52.04   Definitions
   
52.05   General discharge prohibitions
   
52.06   Wastewater discharges
   
52.07   Building sewers and connections
   
52.08   Sewer service
   
52.09   Sewer rates
   
52.10   Sewer rate calculation
   
52.11   Cost of sewer connection
   
52.12   Limitations on wastewater strength
   
52.13   State requirements
   
52.14   Right of revision
   
52.15   Dilution
   
52.16   Accidental discharges
   
52.17   General disclosure
   
52.18   Disclosure forms
   
52.19   Standards modification
   
52.20   Compliance date report
   
52.21   Periodic compliance reports
   
52.22   Monitoring facilities
   
52.23   Inspection and sampling
   
52.24   Confidential information
   
52.25   Fees
   
52.26   Emergency suspension of service and discharge permits
   
52.27   Revocation of treatment services
   
52.28   Notification of violation; administrative adjustment
   
52.29   Show cause hearing
   
52.30   Judicial proceedings
   
52.31   Right of appeal
   
52.32   Operating upsets
   
52.33   Records retention
   
52.34   Inspections rights
   
52.35   Liability during inspection
   
52.36   Notification of violation
   
52.37   Protection from damage
   
52.38   Gravity sewer and grinder pump inspections
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 INTRODUCTION.
   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for dischargers into the city
wastewater collection and treatment systems and enables the city to protect
public health in conformity with all applicable local, state and federal laws
relating thereto.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.01)
§ 52.02 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as, referred to or cited as the “User Discharge
and Sewage Code for the City of Nelsonville, Athens County, Ohio”, and
hereinafter referred to as “this chapter”.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.02)
§ 52.03 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The objectives of this chapter are as follows:
      (1)   To regulate the use of public sewers, the discharge of waters and
waste into public sewers and the construction of sewers and connections;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the city wastewater
system which will interfere with the normal operation of the system or
contaminate the resulting municipal sludge;
      (3)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the city wastewater
system which do not receive adequate treatment in the wastewater treatment
plant, and which will pass through the system into receiving waters or the
atmosphere or otherwise be incompatible with the system; and
      (4)   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewater and
sludge from the system.
   (B)   This chapter provides for the regulation of discharges into the city
wastewater system through the enforcement of administrative regulations. This
chapter provides for the recovery of operation, maintenance or replacement
costs of the treatment works and the costs associated with the construction of
collection and treatment systems used by all users, in proportion to their use
of the treatment works.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall limit the right of the city to reject
wastes, require the pretreatment of wastes, levy surcharge(s) for the treatment
of wastes or to contract for a special agreement or arrangement for the
treatment and disposal of wastes unless such actions are contrary to state and/
or federal laws and/or regulations.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.03)
§ 52.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Clean Water Act, being U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   APPLICABLE PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any pretreatment limit or prohibitive
standard (federal and/or local) contained in this chapter deemed to be the most
restrictive.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The City Manager in a NPDES state with an approved state
pretreatment program and the administrator of the EPA in a non-NPDES state or
NPDES state without an approved state pretreatment program.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF INDUSTRIAL DISCHARGER. An authorized
representative of an industrial discharger and may be a:
      (1)   Principal executive officer of at least the level of vice-
president, if the industrial discharger is a corporation;
      (2)   General partner or proprietor if the industrial discharger is a
partnership or proprietorship, respectively; or
      (3)   Duly authorized representative of the individual designated above
if such representative is responsible for the overall operation of the
facilities from which the indirect discharge originates.
   AVERAGE MONTHLY DISCHARGE LIMITATION. The highest allowable average of daily
discharges over a calendar month, calculated as the sum of all daily discharges
measured during a calendar month divided by the number of daily discharges
measured during that month.
   AVERAGE WEEKLY DISCHARGE LIMITATION. The highest allowable average of daily
discharges over a calendar week, calculated as the sum of all daily discharges,
measured during a calendar week divided by the number of daily discharges
measured during that week.
   BENEFICIAL USES. Includes, but are not limited to, domestic, municipal,
agricultural and industrial use; power generation; recreation; aesthetic
enjoyment; navigation; and the preservation and enhancement of fish, wildlife
and other aquatic resources or reserves, and other uses, either tangible or
intangible, as specified by state or federal law.
   BOD. Biochemical oxygen demand. See division (1) under the definition for
POLLUTANT PARAMETERS.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer which
shall begin three feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   CAPITAL REPLACEMENT. The expenditure of funds specifically to replace
deteriorated infrastructure, buildings, pumping stations, vehicles and the like
to assure continued efficient operation of the wastewater collection,
conveyance and treatment system.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. National pretreatment standards
specifying quantities or concentrations of pollutants or pollutant properties
which may be discharged or introduced into a sewer system by specific
industrial dischargers.
   CITY MANAGER. The City Manager of the city, or his or her authorized deputy,
agent or representative. The terms DIRECTOR or MANAGER shall mean CITY MANAGER.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   COMMERCIAL USER. Retail or wholesale business establishments which discharge
waste into the sewage system.
   COMPOSITE SAMPLE. Should contain a minimum of eight discrete samples taken
at equal time intervals over the compositing period or proportional to the flow
rate over the compositing period. More than the minimum number of discrete
samples will be required where the wastewater loading is highly variable.
   COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any system of condensation, air
conditioning, cooling, refrigeration or other such system, but which shall be
free from odor and oil. It shall contain no polluting substances which produce
BOD or suspended solids each in excess of ten part per million by weight.
   DAILY DISCHARGE. Discharge of a pollutant measured during a calendar day or
any 24-hour period that reasonably represents the calendar for purposes of
sampling.
   DEBT SERVICE. The portion of the billing directly attributed to the payment
of principle and interest on accumulated debt.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right of the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EPA or U.S. EPA. The United States Environmental Protection Agency, or,
where appropriate, the term may also be used as a designation for the
administrator or other duly authorized official of said agency.
   GARBAGE. Any solid wastes from the preparation, cooking or dispensing of
food and from handling, storage or sale of produce.
   GROUND (SHREDDED) GARBAGE. Garbage that is shredded to such a degree that
all particles will be carried freely in suspension under the conditions
normally prevailing in the sewerage system, with no particle being greater than
one-half inch in dimension.
   GOVERNMENTAL. All users that are under the direct control of city, township,
county or state agencies.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a one-time basis
with no regard to the flow in the waste stream and without consideration of
time.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge or the introduction of non-domestic
pollutants from a source regulated under § 307(b) or (c) of the Act, being 33
U.S.C. §§ 1317(b) or (c), into a treatment works.
   INDUSTRIAL DISCHARGER. Any nonresidential user who discharges an industrial
waste into a treatment works by means of pipes, conduits, pumping stations,
force mains, constructed drainage ditches, surface water intercepting ditches
and all constructed devices and appliances appurtenant thereto.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Solid, liquid or gaseous waste resulting from any
industrial, manufacturing, trade or business process or from the development
recovery or processing of natural resources.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE PERMIT. A permit to deposit or discharge industrial waste
into any sanitary sewer as issued by the treatment works.
   INFLUENT. The water, together with any waste that maybe present, flowing
into a drain, sewer, receptacle or outlet.
   INSTITUTIONAL. The user class defined as schools, hospitals, churches,
nursing home and the like.
   INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of a treatment work’s sewer
system, treatment processes or operations which may contribute to a violation
of any requirement of its NPDES permit.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTOR. A contributor that:
      (1)   Has a flow of more than 25,000 gallons per average workday;
      (2)   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts, as defined in
§ 307 of the federal Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317;
      (3)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow carried by the municipal
system receiving the waste;
      (4)   Has in its waste toxic pollutants, as defined pursuant to § 307 of
the Act or state statutes and rules; or
      (5)   Is found by the city, state or the U.S. EPA to have significant
impact, either singly or in combination with other contributing industries, on
the wastewater treatment system, the quality of sludge, the system’s effluent
quality or air emissions generated by the system.
   MAXIMUM DAILY DISCHARGE LIMITATIONS. The highest allowable daily discharge.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   NEW SOURCE. Any source, the construction of which is commenced after the
publication of proposed regulations prescribing a § 307(c) (33 U.S.C. § 1317)
categorical pretreatment standard, which will be applicable to such source, if
such standard is thereafter promulgated within 120 days of proposal in the
federal register. Where the standard is promulgated later than 120 days after
proposal, a NEW SOURCE means any source, the construction of which is commenced
after the date of promulgation of the standard.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Wastewater of strength and characteristics as that
discharged by average residential users of the system, and determined to be not
higher than 200 mg/l (milligrams per liter) for biochemical oxygen demand (BOD)
and 250 mg/l (milligrams per liter) for suspended solids (SS).
   NPDES. National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit program, as
administered by the U.S. EPA or state.
   O&M. Operation and maintenance.
   OM&R. Operation, maintenance and replacement
   OM&R COSTS. Those costs directly related to the operation, maintenance and
replacement of the treatment plant, collection system and conveyance of
wastewater. Includes those items such as utilities, equipment repair and
component replacement, personnel costs and laboratory expenses.
   OTHER WASTES. Decayed wood, sawdust, shavings, bark, lime, refuse, ashes,
garbage, offal, tar, chemicals and all other substances except sewage and
industrial wastes.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. See division (8) under the definition for POLLUTANT PARAMETERS.
   POLLUTANT. Any substance discharged into a treatment works or its collection
system or any substance which, upon exposure to or assimilation into any
organism, will cause adverse effects such as cancer, genetic mutations or
physiological manifestations, as defined in standards issued pursuant to § 307
(a) of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a).
   POLLUTANT PARAMETERS. Includes the following:
      (1)   BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of dissolved oxygen
in milligrams per liter required during stabilization of the decomposable
organic matter by aerobic biochemical action under standard laboratory
procedures for five days at 20°C. The laboratory determinations shall be made
in accordance with procedures set forth in Standard Methods;
      (2)   COD (CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). A measure of the oxygen equivalent of
that portion of the organic matter in a sample that is susceptible to oxidation
by a strong chemical oxidant. The laboratory determination shall be made in
accordance with procedures set forth in Standard Methods;
      (3)   FECAL COLIFORM. Any of a number of organisms common to the
intestinal tract of humans and animals, whose presence in sanitary sewage is an
indicator of pollution;
      (4)   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state, such that
will separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved
pretreatment facility;
      (5)   GREASE AND OIL. A group of substances including hydrocarbons, fatty
acids, soaps, fats, waxes, oils or any other material that is extracted by a
solvent from an acidified sample and that is not volatilized during the
laboratory test procedures. GREASES AND OILS are defined by the method of their
determination in accordance with Standard Methods;
      (6)   GREASE AND OIL OF ANIMAL AND VEGETABLE ORIGIN. Substances that are
of less readily biodegradable nature such as are discharged by meat packing,
vegetable oil and fat industries, food processors, canneries and restaurants;
      (7)   GREASE AND OIL OF MINERAL ORIGIN. Substances that are less readily
degradable than grease and oil of animal or vegetable origin; and are derived
from a petroleum source. Such substances include machinery lubricating oils,
gasoline station waste, petroleum refinery wastes and storage depot wastes;
      (8)   pH. The logarithm (to the base 10) of the reciprocal of the
hydrogen ion concentration of a solution expressed in gram atoms per liter of
solution;
      (9)   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids which either float on the surface of or
are in suspension in water, sewage or other liquid and which are removable by
laboratory filtration. Their concentration shall be expressed in milligrams per
liter. Quantitative determination shall be made in accordance with procedures
set forth in Standard Methods;
      (10)   TOTAL SOLIDS. The sum of suspended and dissolved solids;
      (11)   VOLATILE ORGANIC MATTER. The material in the sewage solids
transformed to gases or vapors when heated at 550°C for 15 to 20 minutes; and
      (12)   Any other pollutant parameter deemed appropriate.
   POLLUTION. An alteration of the quality of the waters of the state by waste
to a degree which unreasonably affects such waters for beneficial uses or
facilities which serve such beneficial uses. The human-made or human-induced
alteration of the chemical, physical, biological and radiological integrity of
water.
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of discharging or
otherwise introducing such pollutants into a sewer system.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment, other than a national pretreatment standard imposed on an
industrial discharger.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARD or NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in
accordance with § 307 (b) and (c) of the Act (being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(b) and
(c)) which applies to a specific category of industrial dischargers.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights and which is controlled by public authority.
   RECEIVING STREAM. The watercourse, stream or body of water receiving the
waters finally discharged from the wastewater treatment plant.
   REPLACEMENT. The installation of a component of the treatment, collection or
conveyance system which had been previously installed and which has fulfilled
its useful life expectancy.
   RESIDENTIAL USER. A principal family residence or habitation identified as a
single-family, multi-family, apartment or mobile home that discharges no
greater than normal domestic strength waste into the sewerage system.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences,
business buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with
such ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. Water-carried wastes or a combination of water-carried wastes from
residences, business buildings, institutions and industrial establishments,
together with such ground, surface, storm or other waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SEWER. Any pipe, conduit, ditch or other device used to collect and
transport sewage or storm water from the generating source.
   SEWER SERVICE CHARGE. The total amount billed to users for wastewater
treatment service. It consists of a user charge (for operation, maintenance and
replacement, (OM&R)), debt service/capital improvements charge, surcharges for
extra strength wastes (greater than normal domestic strength) and any other
miscellaneous charges.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters
and drainage but excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
   SLUDGE. Any solid, semi-solid or liquid waste generated from a municipal,
commercial or industrial wastewater treatment plant, water supply treatment
plant or air pollution control facility or any other waste having similar
characteristics and effects, as defined in standards issued under §§ 402 and
405 of the federal Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1342 and 1345, and in the applicable
requirements under §§ 3001, 3004 and 4004 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act,
being 42 U.S.C. §§ 1342 and 1345.
   SLUGLOAD. Any substance released in a discharge at a rate and/or
concentration which causes interference to a POTW.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification pursuant to the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of the
President, Office of Management and Budget, 1972.
   STANDARD METHODS. The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition,
at the time of analysis, of “Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater”, prepared and published jointly by the American Public Heath
Association, the American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution
Control Federation.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. See division (9) under the definition for POLLUTANT
PARAMETERS.
   TREATMENT WORKS. Any sewage treatment works and the sewers and conveyance
appurtenances discharging thereto, owned and operated by the city.
   TOXIC AMOUNT. Concentrations of any pollutant or combination of pollutants
which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause adverse
effects such as cancer, genetic mutations and physiological manifestations, as
defined in standards issued pursuant to § 307(a) of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. §
1317(a).
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. Those substances referred to in § 307(a) of the Act, being
33 U.S.C. § 1317(a), as well as any other known potential substances capable of
producing toxic effects.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER OR WASTE. Any water or waste containing none of the
following: free or emulsified grease or oil; acid or alkali, phenols or other
substance imparting tastes and odors in receiving waters; toxic or poisonous
substances in suspension, colloidal state or solution; and noxious odors or
gases. It shall not contain more than 10,000 parts per million by weight of
dissolved solids, of which not more than 2,500 parts per million shall be as
chloride, with permissible volume subject to review by the city and not more
than ten parts per million each of suspended solids and BOD. Color shall not
exceed 50 parts per million.
   UPSET. An exceptional incident in which an industrial discharger
unintentionally and temporarily is in a state of noncompliance with the
standards set forth due to factors beyond the reasonable control of the
industrial discharger, and excluding noncompliance to the extent caused by
operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities, inadequate
treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance or careless or improper
operation thereof.
   U.S.C. United States Code.
   USER. Any person that discharges, causes or permits the discharge of
wastewater into the sewerage system.
   USER CHARGES. The proportionate share, paid by the individual user, of all
costs associated with operation, maintenance and replacement of the wastewater
system.
   WASTEWATER. Industrial waste or sewage, or any other waste including that
which may be combined with any groundwater, surface water or storm water, that
may be discharged to the sewer system.
   WASTEWATER CONSTITUENTS AND CHARACTERISTICS. The individual chemical,
physical, bacteriological and radiological parameters, including volume, flow
rate and such other parameters that serve to define, classify or measure the
contents, quality, quantity and strength of wastewater.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.41)
§ 52.05 GENERAL DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water or
unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer located within the
city, or within any area under the jurisdiction of said city. Those connections
to the sanitary sewer which are identified as clean water connections
prohibited by this chapter must be removed at the expense of the property
owner.
   (B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a natural
outlet approved by the City Manager. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted
process waters may be discharged, upon approval of the City Manager, to a storm
sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet.
   (C)   No discharger shall contribute or cause to be discharged, directly or
indirectly, any of the following described substances into the wastewater
disposal system or otherwise to the facilities of the city:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, mineral oil or other
liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or quantity are, or
may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction to cause fire or explosion or
be injurious in any other way to the operation of any wastewater treatment
plant or constitute a hazard to humans or animals;
      (2)   Any water or waste which contains grease, fats, wax or oil or other
substances that will solidify or become discernibly viscous at temperatures
between 32°F and 150°F;
      (3)   Any wastewater having a pH less than 6.0 or higher than 9.0 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment or personnel of the system;
      (4)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or solids which either
singly or by interaction are capable of creating a public nuisance or hazard to
life or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers for their maintenance
and repair;
      (5)   Any substance which may cause the wastewater treatment plant’s
effluent or treatment residues, sludge or scum to be unsuitable for reclamation
and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process. In no case shall a
substance discharged to the sewer system cause the wastewater treatment plant
to be in noncompliance with sludge use or disposal criteria, guidelines or
regulations developed under § 405 of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1345; any
criteria, guidelines or regulations affecting sludge use or disposal developed
pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act, being 42 U.S.C. § 6901 et seq., the
Clean Air Act, being 42 U.S.C. 7401 et seq., the Toxic Substances Control Act,
being 15 U.S.C. 2601 et seq., or state standards applicable to the sludge
management method being used;
      (6)   Any substance which will cause the treatment works to violate its
NPDES and/or other disposal system permits or otherwise interferes with the
treatment works;
      (7)   Any substance with objectionable color not removed in the treatment
process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable tanning
solutions;
      (8)   Any wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity in the wastewater treatment plant resulting in interference; but in no
case, wastewater with a temperature at the introduction into the treatment
works which exceeds 104°F;
      (9)   Any slugload, which shall mean any substance released in a
discharge at a rate and/or concentration, which causes interference to a POTW;
      (10)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes of
such half-life or concentration as exceed limits established by the city in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (11)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower or larger shall be subject to the review and approval of the City
Manager;
      (12)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass,
rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure, hair and fleshing,
entrails, lime slurry, lime residues, beer or distillery slops, chemical
residues, paint residues, cannery waste bulk solids or any other solid viscous
substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works; or
      (13)   Any wastewater which causes a hazard to human life or creates a
public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.04) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.06 WASTEWATER DISCHARGES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in an unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to discharge into any natural outlet within
the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any sanitary
sewage, industrial wastes or other polluted waters, except where suitable
treatment has been provided in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Except as herein provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (C)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purpose, situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located
or may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the city, is hereby
required, at his or her expense, to install suitable toilet facilities therein,
and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 60 days after date of
official notice to do so, provided that said public sewer is within 100 feet of
the property line of said house, building or property.
   (D)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the City Manager, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes,
sand and other harmful ingredients, except that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the City Manager, and shall be so located
as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   (E)   Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious
materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature.
They shall be of substantial construction, water tight and equipped with easily
removable covers, which, when bolted in place, shall be gas tight and water
tight.
   (F)   Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously efficient
operation at all times. Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not
available under the provisions of division (D) above, the building sewer shall
be connected to a private sewage disposal system complying with the City-County
Health Department Regulations.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.05) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.07 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the City Manager. City retains
the right to limit new connections to the sewer system based upon the capacity
of the treatment works.
   (B)   (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   For residential and commercial service; and
         (b)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
      (2)   In either case, the owner, or his or her agent, shall make
application on a special form furnished by the city. The permit application
shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information
considered pertinent in the judgment of the City Manager. A permit and
inspection fee shall be paid to the city at the time the application is filed.
A schedule of fees shall be determined by the City Manager for the above two
classes of sewer permits.
   (C)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
city from loss or damage that may, directly or indirectly, be occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer.
   (D)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
   (E)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the City Manager, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
   (F)   Building sewers shall use materials in accordance with the
requirements of the State EPA and the City-County Health Department.
   (G)   Wherever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall be laid
parallel to or within three feet of any bearing wall, which might thereby be
weakened. The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost. The
building sewer shall be laid at uniform grade and in straight alignment insofar
as possible. Changes in direction shall be made only with properly curved pipe
and fittings.
   (H)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drain shall
be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the building sewer.
   (I)   All excavations required for the installation of a building sewer
shall be open trench work unless otherwise approved by the City Manager. Pipe
laying and backfill shall be performed in accordance with ASTM specification C-
12, except that no backfill shall be placed until the work has been inspected.
   (J)   All joints and connections shall be made gas tight and water tight.
   (K)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be
made at the “Y” branch, if such branch is available at a suitable location. If
the public sewer is 12 inches in diameter or less, and no properly located “Y”
branch is available, the owner shall, at his or her expense, install a “Y”
branch in the public sewer at the location specified by the City Manager. Where
the public sewer is greater than 12 inches in diameter, and no properly located
“Y” branch is available, a neat hole may be cut into the public sewer to
receive the building sewer, with entry in the downstream direction at an angle
of about 45 degrees. A 45-degree elbow may be used to make such connection,
with the spigot end cut so as not to extend past the inner surface of the
public sewer. The invert of the building sewer at the point of connection shall
be at the same or at a higher elevation than the invert of the public sewer. A
smooth, neat joint shall be made, and the connection made secure and water
tight by encasement in concrete. Special fittings may be used for the
connection only when approved by the City Manager.
   (L)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the City
Manager when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the
public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the City
Manager, or his or her representative.
   (M)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.06) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.08 SEWER SERVICE.
   All users of the wastewater system shall be billed for sewer service. No
user will be granted free service. Sewer service charges shall be collected and
payment enforced in accordance with the applicable provisions of
Chapter 51.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.07)
§ 52.09 SEWER RATES.
   (A)   Effective January 1, 2023, the sewer rates increased as follows:
Sewer Rates
 2022 Rate 2023 Rate
Sewer Rates
                                2022 Rate 2023 Rate
In-town
1,500 minimum                   $18.41    $19.51
Every 1,000 gallons over 1,500* $11.13    $11.79
Out of town
1,500 minimum                   $27.61    $29.27
Every 1,000 over 1,500*         $16.69    $17.69
Hocking County Commissioners
Per 1,000 gallons               $4.75     $5.04
 
   (B)   (1)   In the table above, the calculation of “for every 1,000 gallons
over 1,500” is not a flat fee; it shall be pro-rated. The amount of gallons
over 1,500 actually used shall be pro-rated from the rated from the applicable
rate.
      (2)   For example, if an in-town household uses 2,000 gallons of water in
2022, then it shall be charged for $18.41 for the 1,500 gallon minimum.
Additionally, that same household shall be charged $5.57 for the actual gallons
used over the 1,500 gallon minimum. The formula is as follows:
         (a)   (Minimum 1,500 gallon rate) + [(amount used/1,000 gallons) x
(rate for 1,000 gallons over 1,500)] = sewer bill owed; and
         (b)    Therefore:   $18.41 + [(500/1,000) x 11.13)] = sewer bill owed
                  $18.41 + 5.57 = sewer bill owed
                  $23.98 = 2022 sewer bill owed
(Prior Code, § 5.04.08) (Ord. 41-16, passed 9-26-2016; Ord. 14-18, passed 3-12-
2018; Ord. 62-18, passed 12-10-2018; Ord. 29-19, passed 5-20-2019; Ord. 106-20,
passed 12-29-2020; Ord. 93-21, passed 11-22-2021; Ord. 22-22, passed 3-28-2022)
§ 52.10 SEWER RATE CALCULATION.
   (A)   (1)   An annual review of the user charge is required in order to
evaluate the OM&R costs and OM&R revenues; and, if a rate increase or decrease
is necessary, determine the amount.
      (2)   This annual review should also ensure that proportionality of the
user charge system is maintained.
   (B)   Each user is to be notified annually, in conjunction with a regular
bill, of the sewer service charge and that portion of the sewer service charge
that is attributable to OM&R costs of the wastewater treatment system.
   (C)   The monthly sanitary sewer charge shall be calculated on the volume of
wastewater discharged, directly or indirectly, into the sewage system and shall
be measured by water used by each user as shown by the water meter readings.
The sanitary sewer service charge shall consist of the sum of the OM&R charge,
the surcharges for extra strength wastes, and the debt service/capital
improvements charge calculated as follows:
      (1)   OM&R charge: OMR = (A/Q) x M, where:
         (a)   A = Total monthly operation, maintenance and replacement costs
for the wastewater treatment plant and collection system;
         (b)   Q = Total number of metered gallons of water sold to users
connected to the sanitary sewer system; and
         (c)   M = Monthly metered water usage per user. There shall be a
minimum charge per month per user of 1,500 gallons usage, regardless of actual
consumption.
      (2)   Extra strength waste surcharge (P): P = B x BOD + C x SS, where:
         (a)   BOD = Pounds of biochemical oxygen demand per month in excess of
200 mg/l concentration in the wastewater;
         (b)   SS = Pounds of suspended solids per month in excess of 250 mg/
l concentration in the wastewater;
         (c)   B = Total expenditures per pound of BOD to collect, convey and
treat the wastewater; and
         (d)   C = Total expenditures per pound of SS to collect, convey and
treat the wastewater.
      (3)   Debt service/capital improvements charge: DSC = D/(N x 12 months
per year) + I, where:
         (a)   D = Total amortized annual debt service payments for the sewage
disposal system;
         (b)   N = Total number of users in the system; and
         (c)   I = Total charge for capital improvements to the sewage disposal
system.
      (4)   The monthly sewer service charge shall be calculated as follows:
Charge = OMR + P + DSC.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.09)
§ 52.11 COST OF SEWER CONNECTION.
   The sum of $150 shall be charged for installation of new sewer taps by the
city. The owner shall be responsible for all costs associated with the
installation of new sewer taps, and shall be required to post a $500 street
bond. The street bond will be returned to the owner upon completion of
construction if, in the City Manager’s sole judgment, the street is restored to
the same condition as existed prior to commencement of construction. The street
bond will be forfeited by the owner if the City Manager determines that the
street has not been satisfactorily restored.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.10)
§ 52.12 LIMITATIONS ON WASTEWATER STRENGTH.
   National categorical pretreatment standards, as promulgated by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), pursuant to the Act, shall be met by all
industrial dischargers of the regulated industrial categories. An application
for modification of the national categorical pretreatment standards may be
considered for submittal to the Regional Administrator by the city, when the
city’s wastewater treatment system achieves consistent removal of the
pollutants, as defined by 40 C.F.R. § 403.7.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.11)
§ 52.13 STATE REQUIREMENTS.
   State requirements and limitations on discharges to the treatment works
shall be met by all industrial dischargers which are subject to such standards
in any instance in which they are more stringent than federal requirements and
limitations on those in this or any other applicable ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.12) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.14 RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The city reserves the right to amend this chapter to provide for more
stringent limitations or requirements on discharges to the treatment works
where deemed necessary to comply with the objectives set forth in §
52.03.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.13)
§ 52.15 DILUTION.
   No industrial discharger shall increase the use of potable or process water
in any way, nor mix separate waste streams for the purpose of diluting a
discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate treatment to achieve
compliance with the standards set forth in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.14) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.16 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Each industrial discharger shall provide protection from accidental
discharge of prohibited or regulated materials or substances established by
this chapter. Where necessary, facilities to prevent accidental discharge of
prohibited materials shall be provided and maintained at the industrial
discharger’s cost and expense. Detailed plans showing facilities and operating
procedures to provide this protection shall be submitted to the City Manager
for review, and shall be approved by the City Manager before construction of
the facility. Each existing industrial discharger shall complete its plan and
submit same to the City Manager by June 1, 1985.
   (B)   No industrial discharger who discharges to the treatment works after
the aforesaid date shall be permitted to introduce pollutants into the system
until accidental discharge protection procedures have been approved by the City
Manager. Review and approval of such plans and operating procedures by the City
Manager shall not relieve the industrial discharger from the responsibility to
modify its facility as necessary to meet the requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Industrial dischargers shall notify the City Manager immediately upon
the occurrence of a “slugload” or accidental discharge of substances prohibited
by this chapter. The notification shall include location of discharge, date and
time thereof, type of waste, concentration and volume and corrective actions.
Any industrial discharger who discharges a slugload of prohibited materials
shall be liable for any expense, loss or damage to the treatment works in
addition to the amount of any fines imposed on the city on account thereof
under state or federal law.
   (D)   Signs shall be permanently posted in conspicuous places on the
industrial discharger’s premises, advising employees whom to call in the event
of a slugload or accidental discharge. Employers shall instruct all employees
who may cause or discover such a discharge with respect to emergency
notification procedure.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.15)
§ 52.17 GENERAL DISCLOSURE.
   All industrial dischargers proposing to connect to or to discharge sewage,
industrial wastes and other wastes to the treatment works shall comply with all
terms of this chapter within 90 days after the effective date of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.16)
§ 52.18 DISCLOSURE FORMS.
   (A)   Industrial dischargers shall complete and file with the city a
disclosure declaration in the form prescribed by the city, and accompanied by
the appropriate fee. Existing industrial dischargers shall file disclosure
forms within 30 days after the effective date of this chapter, and proposed new
industrial dischargers shall file their disclosure forms at least 90 days prior
to connecting to the treatment works.
   (B)   The disclosure to be made by the industrial discharger shall be made
on written forms provided by the city and shall cover:
      (1)   Disclosure of name, address and location of the industrial
discharger;
      (2)   Disclosure of Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) number
according to the Standard Industrial Classification Manual, Bureau of the
Budget, 1972, as amended;
      (3)   Disclosure of wastewater constituents and characteristics,
including, but not limited to, those mentioned in this chapter as determined by
bonafide chemical and biological analyses. Sampling and analysis shall be
performed in accordance with procedures established by the U.S. EPA and
contained in 40 C.F.R. Part 136, as amended;
      (4)   Disclosure of time and duration of discharges;
      (5)   Disclosure of average daily and instantaneous peak wastewater flow
rates, in gallons per day, including daily, monthly and seasonal variations, if
any. All flows shall be measured unless other verifiable techniques are
approved by the City Manager due to cost or nonfeasibility;
      (6)   Disclosure of site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing
plans and details to show all sewers, sewer connections, inspection manholes,
sampling chambers and appurtenances by size, location and elevation;
      (7)   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises including all materials which are or may be discharged to the sewers
or works of the city;
      (8)   Disclosure of the nature and concentration of any pollutants or
materials prohibited by this chapter in the discharge, together with a
statement regarding whether or not compliance is being achieved with the
chapter on a consistent basis and if not, whether additional operation and
maintenance activities and/or additional pretreatment is required for the
industrial discharger to comply with this chapter;
      (9)   Where additional pretreatment and/or operation and maintenance
activities will be required to comply with this chapter, the industrial
discharger shall provide a declaration of the shortest schedule by which the
industrial discharger will provide such additional pretreatment and/or
implementation of additional operational and maintenance activities.
         (a)   The schedule shall contain milestone dates for the commencement
and completion of major events leading to the construction and operation of
additional pretreatment required for the industrial discharger to comply with
the requirements of this chapter, including, but not limited to, dates relating
to hiring an engineer, hiring other appropriate personnel, completing
preliminary plans, completing final plans, executing contract for major
components, commencing construction, completing construction and all other acts
necessary to achieve compliance with this chapter.
         (b)   Under no circumstances shall the city permit a time increment
for any single step directed toward compliance which exceeds nine months.
         (c)   Not later than 14 days following each milestone date in the
schedule and the final date for compliance, the industrial discharger shall
submit a progress report to the city, including no less than a statement as to
whether or not it complied with the increment of progress represented by that
milestone date and, if not, the date on which it expects to comply with this
increment of progress, the reason for delay and the steps being taken by the
industrial discharger to return the construction to the approved schedule. In
no event shall more than nine months elapse between such progress reports to
the city.
      (10)   Disclosure of each product produced by type, amount, process or
processes and rate of production;
      (11)   Disclosure of the type and amount of raw materials utilized
(average and maximum per day);
      (12)   All disclosure forms shall be signed by a principal executive
officer of the industrial discharger and a licensed professional engineer; and
      (13)   All sewers shall have an inspection and sampling manhole or
structure with an opening of no less than 24 inches diameter and an internal
diameter of no less than 36 inches containing flow measuring, recording and
sampling equipment as required by the city to assure compliance with this
chapter.
   (C)   The city will evaluate the complete disclosure form and data furnished
by the industrial discharger and may require additional information. Within 30
days after full evaluation and acceptance of the date furnished, the city shall
notify the industrial discharger of the city’s acceptance thereof.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.17)
§ 52.19 STANDARDS MODIFICATION.
   The city reserves the right to amend this chapter and the terms and
conditions hereof in order to assure compliance by the city with applicable
laws and regulations. Within nine months of the promulgation of a national
categorical pretreatment standard, this chapter shall be amended to require
compliance by industrial dischargers with such standards within the timeframe
prescribed by such standards. All national categorical pretreatment standards
adopted after the promulgation of this chapter shall be adopted by the city as
part of this chapter. Where an industrial discharger, subject to a national
categorical pretreatment standard, has not previously submitted a disclosure
form as required by §
52.18, the industrial discharger shall file a disclosure form with the city
within 180 days after the promulgation of the applicable national categorical
pretreatment standard by the U.S. EPA. In addition, any industrial discharger
operating on the basis of a previous filing of a disclosure statement shall
submit to the city, within 180 days after the promulgation of an applicable
national categorical pretreatment standard, the additional information required
by §
52.18(B)(8) and (B)(9). The industrial discharger shall be informed of any
proposed changes in the chapter at least 30 days prior to the effective date of
change. Any changes or new conditions in the chapter shall include a reasonable
time schedule for compliance.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.18)
§ 52.20 COMPLIANCE DATE REPORT.
   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance by the industrial
discharger with applicable pretreatment standards set forth in this chapter or
90 days following commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the
treatment works by a new industrial discharger, any industrial discharger
subject to this chapter shall submit to the city a report indicating the nature
and concentration of all prohibited or regulated substances contained in its
discharge, and the average and maximum daily flow in gallons. The report shall
state whether the applicable pretreatment standards or requirements are being
met on a consistent basis and, if not, what additional O&M and/or pretreatment
is necessary to bring the industrial discharger into compliance with the
applicable pretreatment standards or requirements. This statement shall be
signed by an authorized representative of the industrial discharger, and
certified to by a licensed professional engineer.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.19)
§ 52.21 PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any industrial discharger, subject to a pretreatment standard
set forth in this chapter, after the compliance date of such pretreatment
standard, or, in the case of a new discharger, after commencement of the
discharge to the city, shall submit to the city during the months of June and
December, unless required more frequently by the city, a report indicating the
nature and concentration of prohibited or regulated substances in the effluent
which are limited by the pretreatment standards hereof. In addition, this
report shall include a record of all measured or estimated average and maximum
daily flows during the reporting period reported in §
52.18.
      (2)   Flows shall be reported on the basis of actual measurement;
provided, however, where cost or feasibility considerations justify, the city
may accept reports of average and maximum flows estimated by verifiable
techniques.
      (3)   The city, for good cause shown, considering such factors as local
high or low flow rates, holidays, budget cycles or other extenuating factors,
may authorize the submission of said reports in months other than those
specified above.
   (B)   Reports of industrial dischargers shall contain all results of
sampling and analysis of the discharge, including the flow and the nature of
concentration, or production, where required by the city. The frequency of
monitoring by the industrial discharger shall be as prescribed in the
applicable pretreatment standard of this chapter. All analyses shall be
performed in accordance with 40 C.F.R. Part 136 and amendments thereto.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.20)
Editor’s note:
   Where 40 C.F.R. Part 136 does not include a sampling or analytical technique
for the pollutant in question, sampling and analysis shall be performed in
accordance with the procedures set forth in the EPA publication, “Sampling and
Analysis Procedures for Screening of Industrial Effluents for Priority
Pollutants, April, 1977”, and amendments thereto, or with any other sampling
and analytical procedures approved by the Administrator of the U.S. EPA.
§ 52.22 MONITORING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Each industrial discharger shall provide and operate at the industrial
discharger’s own expense, a monitoring facility to allow inspection, sampling
and flow measurement of each sewer discharge to the city. Each monitoring
facility shall be situated on the industrial discharger’s premises; except
where such a location would be impractical or cause undue hardship on the
industrial discharger, the city may concur with the facility being constructed
in the public street or sidewalk area providing that the facility is located so
that it will not be obstructed by landscaping or parked vehicles. There shall
be ample room in or near such sampling facility to allow accurate sampling and
preparation of samples for analysis. The facility, sampling and measuring
equipment shall be maintained, at all times, in safe and proper operating
condition at the expense of the industrial discharger.
   (B)   All monitoring facilities shall be constructed and maintained in
accordance with all applicable local construction standards and specifications.
Construction shall be completed within 120 days of receipt of permit by the
industrial discharger.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.21)
§ 52.23 INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   The city may inspect the monitoring facilities of any industrial discharger
to determine compliance with the requirements of this chapter. The industrial
discharger shall allow the City Manager and any other duly authorized employees
of the city, upon presentation of credentials and identification, to enter upon
the premises of the industrial discharger at all reasonable hours, for the
purposes of inspection, sampling or records examination. The city shall have
the right to set up on the industrial discharger’s property such devices as are
necessary to conduct sampling, inspection, compliance monitoring and/or
metering operations.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.22)
§ 52.24 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data furnished to the city with respect to the nature
and frequency of discharge shall be available to the public or other
governmental agency without restriction unless the discharger specifically
requests and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the city that the
release of such information would divulge information, processes or methods of
production entitled to protection as trade secrets or proprietary information
of the industrial discharger.
   (B)   When requested by an industrial discharger furnishing a report, the
portions of a report which may disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall
not be made available for inspection by the public but shall be made available
upon written request to governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter,
the national pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES) permit, state
disposal system permit and/or the pretreatment programs; provided, however,
that such portions of a report shall be available for use by the state or any
state agency in judicial review or enforcement proceedings involving the
industrial discharger furnishing the report. Wastewater constituents and
characteristics will not be recognized as confidential, shall not be
transmitted to any governmental agency or to the general public by the city
until and unless a ten-day notification is given to the industrial discharger.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.23)
§ 52.25 FEES.
   (A)   In addition to the fees provided in §
52.09, it is the purpose of this section to provide for the payment of fees
from industrial dischargers to the city’s wastewater disposal system, to
compensate the city for the cost of administration of the pretreatment program
established herein.
   (B)   The city shall adopt charges and fees which may include:
      (1)   Fees for monitoring, inspections and surveillance procedures;
      (2)   Fees for permit applications;
      (3)   Fees for filing appeals; and
      (4)   Fees for reviewing accidental discharge procedures and
construction.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.24)
§ 52.26 EMERGENCY SUSPENSION OF SERVICE AND DISCHARGE PERMITS.
   (A)   The city may, for good cause shown, suspend the wastewater treatment
service to an industrial discharger when it appears to the city that an actual
or threatened discharge presents or threatens an imminent or substantial danger
to the health or welfare of persons, substantial danger to the environment,
interferes with the operation of the treatment works or violates any
pretreatment limits imposed by this chapter.
   (B)   Any industrial discharger notified of the suspension of the city’s
wastewater treatment service shall, within a reasonable period of time, as
determined by the city, cease all discharges.
   (C)   In the event of failure of the industrial discharger to comply
voluntarily with the suspension order within the specified time, the city shall
commence judicial proceedings immediately thereafter to compel the industrial
discharger’s compliance with such order.
   (D)   The city shall reinstate the wastewater treatment service and
terminate judicial proceedings pending proof by the industrial discharger of
the elimination of the non-complying discharge or conditions creating the
threat of imminent or substantial danger as set forth above.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.25)
§ 52.27 REVOCATION OF TREATMENT SERVICES.
   The city may seek to terminate the wastewater treatment services to any
industrial discharger which fails to:
   (A)   Factually report the wastewater constituents and characteristic of its
discharge;
   (B)   Report significant changes in wastewater constituents or
characteristics;
   (C)   Refuses reasonable access to the industrial discharger’s premises by
representatives of the city for the purpose of inspection or monitoring; or
   (D)   Violates the conditions of this chapter, or any final judicial order
entered with respect thereto.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.26)
§ 52.28 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION; ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUSTMENT.
   Whenever the city finds that any industrial discharger has engaged in
conduct which justifies termination of wastewater treatment services, pursuant
to §
52.26, the city shall serve, or cause to be served, upon such industrial
discharger, a written notice either personally or by certified or registered
mail, return receipt requested, stating the nature of the alleged violation.
Within 30 days of the date of receipt of the notice, the industrial discharger
shall respond personally or in writing to the city advising of its position
with respect to the allegations. Thereafter, the parties shall meet to
ascertain the veracity of the allegations and, where necessary, establish a
plan for the satisfactory correction thereof.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.27)
§ 52.29 SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   (A)   Where the violation of §
52.26 is not corrected by timely compliance by means of administrative
adjustment, the city may order any industrial discharger which causes or allows
conduct prohibited by §
52.26, to show cause before the city or its duly authorized representative, why
the proposed service termination action should not be taken.
   (B)   A written notice shall be served on the industrial discharger by
personal service, certified or registered, return receipt requested, specifying
the time and place of a hearing to be held by the city or its designee
regarding the violation, the reasons why the enforcement action is to be taken,
the proposed enforcement action and directing the industrial discharger to show
cause before the city or its designee why the proposed enforcement action
should not be taken. The notice of the hearing shall be served no less than ten
days before the hearing. Service may be made on any agent, officer or
authorized representative of an industrial discharger.
   (C)   The proceedings at the hearing shall be considered by the city which
shall then enter appropriate orders with respect to the alleged improper
activities of the industrial discharger. Appeal of such orders may be taken by
the industrial discharger in accordance with applicable local or state law.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.28)
§ 52.30 JUDICIAL PROCEEDINGS.
   Following the entry of any order by the city with respect to the conduct of
an industrial discharger contrary to the provisions of §
52.26, the City Attorney may, following the authorization of such action by the
city, commence an action for appropriate legal and/or equitable relief in the
appropriate local court.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.29)
§ 52.31 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   Any industrial discharger or any interested party shall have the right to
request, in writing, an interpretation or ruling by the city on any matter
covered by this chapter and shall be entitled to a prompt written reply. In the
event that such inquiry is by an industrial discharger and deals with matters
of performance or compliance with this chapter for which enforcement activity
relating to an alleged violation is the subject, receipt of an industrial
discharger’s request shall stay all enforcement proceedings pending receipt of
the aforesaid written reply. Appeal of any final judicial order entered
pursuant to this chapter may be taken in accordance with local and state law.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.30)
§ 52.32 OPERATING UPSETS.
   (A)   Any industrial discharger which experiences an upset in operations
which places the industrial discharger in a temporary state of noncompliance
with this chapter shall inform the city thereof within 24 hours of first
awareness of the commencement of the upset. Where such information is given
orally, a written follow-up report thereof shall be filed by the industrial
discharger with the city within five days.
   (B)   The report shall specify:
      (1)   Description of the upset, the cause thereof and the upset’s impact
on an industrial discharger’s compliance status;
      (2)   Duration of noncompliance, including exact dates and times of
noncompliance, and if the noncompliance continues, the time by which compliance
is reasonably expected to occur; and
      (3)   All steps taken or to be taken to reduce, eliminate and prevent
recurrence of such an upset or other conditions of noncompliance.
   (C)   A documented and verified bonafide operating upset shall be an
affirmative defense to any enforcement action brought by the city against an
industrial discharger for any noncompliance with this chapter which arises out
of violations alleged to have occurred during the period of the upset.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.31)
§ 52.33 RECORDS RETENTION.
   All industrial dischargers subject to this chapter shall retain and
preserve, for no less than three years, any records, books, documents,
memoranda, reports, correspondence and any and all summaries thereof, relating
to monitoring, sampling and chemical analyses made by or in behalf of an
industrial discharger in connection with its discharge. All records which
pertain to matters which are the subject of administrative adjustment or any
other enforcement or litigation activities brought by the city pursuant hereto
shall be retained and preserved by the industrial discharger until all
enforcement activities have concluded and all periods of limitation with
respect to any and all appeals have expired.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.32)
§ 52.34 INSPECTIONS RIGHTS.
   (A)   Upon 24 hours prior notice, any duly authorized employee or agent of
the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted, at
any time, to enter upon all properties within the jurisdiction of the city for
the purpose of inspecting, observing, measuring, sampling and testing, as may
be required in pursuance of the implementation and enforcement of the terms and
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   In the case of an emergency, no advance notice shall be required for
such inspections.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.33)
§ 52.35 LIABILITY DURING INSPECTION.
   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in §
52.34, the duly authorized employees of the city shall observe all safety rules
applicable to the premises established by the commercial or industrial user,
and the user shall be held harmless for injury or death to the city employees,
and the city shall indemnify the user against loss or damage to its property by
city employees and against liability claims and demands for personal injury or
property damage asserted against the user and growing out of the gauging and
sampling operation, except as may be caused by negligence or failure to
maintain safe conditions.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.34)
§ 52.36 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION.
   Any person found to be violating any provisions of this chapter, except §
52.35, shall be served by the city with written notice either personally or by
one publication in a newspaper of general circulation if the violator’s address
is unknown, stating the nature of the violation. Within 30 days of the date of
receipt of the notice, the offender shall permanently cease all violations.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.35)
§ 52.37 PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently
break damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure,
appurtenance or equipment which is a part of the municipal sewage works.
   (B)   Any person violating this provision shall be subject to prosecution
for disorderly conduct as provided in the Ohio Revised Code.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.37) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.38 GRAVITY SEWER AND GRINDER PUMP INSPECTIONS.
   The following fees are established for inspections:
 
Gravity sewer inspection $125
Grinder pump inspection  $275
   
(Ord. 87-20, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 88-20, passed 11-9-2020)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.30 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time
limit provided for in §
52.34 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined in an amount not exceeding $150 for each violation. Each day in which any
such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
      (2)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the city
by reason of such violation.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.36)
   (C)   Any person who knowingly makes any false statement, representation or
certification in any application, record, report, plan or other document filed
or required to be maintained pursuant to this chapter, or who falsifies,
tampers with or knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method
required under this chapter, shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of
not more than $100. Each occurrence may be regarded as a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 5.04.38)
CHAPTER 53: GARBAGE
Section
   
53.01   Purpose and intent
   
53.02   Definitions
   
53.03   Preparation and storage
   
53.04   Collection
   
53.05   Compliance required
   
53.06   License required
   
53.07   Issuance of licenses
   
53.08   Terms of licenses
   
53.09   Sanitary landfill
   
53.10   Application for license
   
53.11   Rates
   
53.12   Uncollected refuse and rubbish; nuisance
   
53.13   Complaints
   
53.14   Route lists and schedules
   
53.15   Performance bond
   
53.16   Indemnity and insurance
   
53.17   Regulations by the City Manager
   
53.18   Exclusive franchise agreement
   
53.19   Franchise; terms
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose and intent of these regulations is to ensure that a sanitary and
satisfactory method of preparation, storage, collection, transportation and
disposition of refuse, rubbish and special rubbish be provided and that the
provisions of this chapter be construed liberally so that the maintenance of
public and private property, in a clean, orderly and sanitary condition, might
be accomplished for the peace, health and safety of the community.
(Prior Code, § 5.02.01)
§ 53.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL USER. All persons who own or operate stores, restaurants,
industries, institutions, boarding houses, rooming houses with six or more
roomers, apartment or condominium complexes, apartment buildings containing
four or more units and other similar places, public or private, charitable or
non-charitable, and includes all responsible persons, other than residential
householders, upon whose premises refuse, rubbish, special rubbish and/or yard
waste is created.
   CONTAINER. For residential purposes, means a leak-proof container with tight
fitting lid of metal or rigid or flexible plastic construction or fabrication
no larger than 32 gallon capacity weighing no more than 45 pounds used to store
refuse or bags of refuse or a CONTAINER of up to 90 gallons if furnished by a
licensed contract hauler. For commercial purposes, it shall be a CONTAINER
determined by mutual agreement of the commercial user and the licensed hauler
as sufficient to serve the needs and demands of the commercial user.
   DAY OF PICK-UP. A period of time no earlier than 6:00 p.m. the day before
and no later than 11:00 p.m. the day of scheduled collection by a licensed
hauler where a residential householder or commercial user places at the street
curb or alley adjacent to the premises or at a public right-of-way location
acceptable to the licensed hauler all rubbish, refuse, special rubbish and/or
yard waste to be collected by the licensed hauler of the city. The City Manager
may require the licensed hauler to provide special assistance to infirm or
handicapped residents where he or she finds such assistance necessary.
Containers shall be continuously stored in accordance with location and
screening requirements of §
53.03(E).
   RESIDENTIAL HOUSEHOLDER. An individual, family or group family (rental) unit
and includes owners, tenants and occupants of all premises containing no more
than three dwelling units or rooming houses with no more than five rooming
units. HOUSEHOLDER shall also mean a nonprofit (low volume) agency that is
located in a residential area, provided application for said designation is
made to the City Manager on a form supplied by the city, and provided the City
Manager finds said agency to be non-profit and low volume. Nothing in this
definition shall be construed to apply to commercial users, as defined in this
section.
   LICENSED HAULER. Any person who has purchased a license or obtained a
franchise from the city for the collection, transportation and disposition of
refuse, rubbish, special rubbish, yard waste and/or recyclables.
   PREMISES. Shall be interpreted to mean land or buildings, or both, or parts
of either or both, occupied by a residential householder or commercial user.
   RECYCLABLES. Materials otherwise considered to be refuse, rubbish or special
rubbish or any other discarded material which can be recovered from the solid
waste stream and converted into similar or new products.
   REFUSE. All wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensation of food
for human consumption; all fish, fowl, fruit, vegetable, animal or other matter
which was intended to be used as food for human consumption, including
condemned food, excess fruit from trees, excess vegetables from gardens and
items of a similar nature; and all wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food for consumption by domestic animals, including dogs, cats
and similar pets.
   RUBBISH. All household goods and refuse resulting from normal household
activities. RUBBISH does not include SPECIAL RUBBISH or RECYCLABLE as herein
defined or as defined in §§
54.01 through
54.05.
   SPECIAL RUBBISH. Rubbish that is too large or otherwise unsuitable to fit
easily into a normal packer truck, including, but not limited to, furniture,
carpeting, springs, mattresses and bed frames; appliances, such as televisions,
stereos, stoves, microwave ovens, refrigerators, freezers, dishwashers, air
conditioners, washers, dryers, water boilers, hot water tanks or furnaces;
feces; dirt, stones, asphalt, gravel, broken or whole bricks, concrete and
other rubbish from repairs and alterations of existing buildings or from new
construction of buildings and sidewalks; or tree limbs, tree trunks or
shrubbery over 24 inches in length.
(Prior Code, § 5.02.02)
§ 53.03 PREPARATION AND STORAGE.
   (A)   No residential householder or commercial user shall permit to
accumulate upon a premises any refuse or rubbish except in suitable covered
containers provided by the residential householder or commercial user and
approved by the City Manager, except for the day of pick-up when plastic or
paper bags may be appropriate. All refuse and rubbish shall be kept in leak
proof containers. All refuse and rubbish shall be drained of liquids and stored
in paper or plastic bags. All containers shall be washed and treated with a
disinfectant as often as necessary to prevent nuisance by the residential
householder or commercial user to whom the same belongs. Grass clippings, tree
trimmings and other vegetative debris determined to be yard waste shall be
bagged for pick-up in accordance with the terms of the franchise agreement or
shall be considered as special rubbish.
   (B)   No person having refuse, rubbish or special rubbish in the city shall
deposit or place such upon any street, alley or public place or ground or
private property in the city, nor may any person deposit or place the same into
any stream bed or body of water in the city. While this section prohibits the
burial of refuse, it is not intended to preclude composting if approved by the
City-County Health Department.
   (C)   No person, residential householder or commercial user shall place any
refuse, rubbish or special rubbish in public trash containers, except that
which is normally generated in public places, such as candy and cigarette
wrappers.
   (D)   All persons, residential householders and commercial users are hereby
required to collect such refuse and rubbish in suitable receptacles on the
premises in possession of the party responsible therefor and then dispose of it
through services provided exclusively by the licensed hauler and in accordance
with this chapter. The premises shall be cleared of refuse and rubbish as often
as necessary, not in excess of every seven days, so as to eliminate any
nuisance to the public. Refuse and rubbish not removed from a premises at least
every seven days is declared a public nuisance.
   (E)   Except for the scheduled day of pick-up or a day of pick-up
rescheduled because of a holiday or other need for postponement, no person,
resident, owner or agent having care of any property within the city shall
store, cause or allow to be stored, deposit or permit any residential container
as herein defined to be located between the front of a structure and the
property line adjacent to the frontage street or public right-of-way.
Containers stored on attached open front porches or decks or on the side of
structures shall not be visible from the street or public right-of-way. Where
these requirements are determined impracticable by the City Manager, or his or
her designee, or where containers are located in a proper storage area and
still visible, containers shall be positioned or screened as effectively as
possible so as to minimize visibility from streets, alleys, secondary rights-
of-way and adjacent properties and premises.
(Prior Code, § 5.02.03) (Ord. 09-15, passed 2-9-2015) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.04 COLLECTION.
   (A)   On the day of collection, the licensed hauler shall collect all
refuse, rubbish, special rubbish and recyclables that are properly prepared and
placed at curb-side or garage-side for collection as per §
53.03.
   (B)   Any person producing or having refuse or rubbish shall cause it to be
removed by persons properly authorized in accordance with §
53.06.
   (C)   Except in emergency situations, all refuse, rubbish and special
rubbish transported by licensed haulers on the streets or public thoroughfares
in the city shall be in packer trucks approved by the City Manager. The bodies
of such vehicles shall be leak-proof, of easily cleanable construction and
completely covered. Spillage or drippage from vehicles transporting refuse,
rubbish or special rubbish shall not be permitted. The name and telephone
number of the licensed hauler shall be easily visible on the side of the
hauler’s truck.
   (D)   The licensed hauler must collect refuse and rubbish at least once
every seven days, equipment failure or acts of God excepted. It shall be
understood that this service has been rendered unless the residential
householder or commercial user notifies the licensed hauler or the city within
five days of failure to furnish such service.
   (E)   The licensed hauler is responsible for providing suitable facilities
for the sanitary storage of the collecting units in their possession when not
in use, so as to be of no nuisance to the city.
   (F)   No collection or transportation of residential refuse and rubbish by
the licensed hauler or the city shall be permitted on Sunday, except in
emergency conditions.
   (G)   Title to all waste shall be vested in the licensed hauler upon its
being placed in the hauling vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5.02.04) (Ord. 09-15, passed 2-9-2015) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.05 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   No person shall contract for the collection or transportation of refuse or
rubbish within the corporation limits, except in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter and the exclusive franchise agreement.
(Prior Code, § 5.02.05) (Ord. 09-15, passed 2-9-2015) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.06 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   All persons collecting or transporting refuse and rubbish in the city shall
have obtained a license pursuant to an approved franchise agreement entered
into with the city. No person other than the licensed hauler shall remove
refuse or rubbish from any premises within the city except small amounts of
refuse or rubbish may be removed on an infrequent basis if authorized by the
City Manager. The license holder is limited to the collection of commercial
users and residential householders in accordance with the franchise agreement.
The city is exempted from the licensing fee and requirements but will obey the
terms of licensing in all other respects.
(Prior Code, § 5.02.06) (Ord. 09-15, passed 2-9-2015) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.07 ISSUANCE OF LICENSES.
   The City Manager shall issue a license to franchise hauler on behalf of the
city in accordance with the terms of this chapter and the franchise agreement.
(Prior Code, § 5.02.07)
§ 53.08 TERMS OF LICENSES.
   (A)   The licensed hauler shall agree to perform the obligations incurred by
the license in accordance with the terms of this chapter and the franchise
agreement.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the licensed hauler to see that the
hauler’s collections are conducted in a neat, workpersonlike manner whereby no
rubbish or refuse is spilled in yards or on streets as a result of collection
operations.
   (C)   In residential areas, unless otherwise permitted by the City Manager,
collection of refuse and rubbish shall not commence before 6:00 a.m. and shall
be completed by 6:00 p.m. on any single day of collection. No regular
collection shall be made on Saturdays, Sundays or designated holidays.
Exceptions by the City Manager can be made for days following holidays or acts
of God when regular pick-ups cannot be conducted.
   (D)   The City Manager shall have the authority, with the advice and consent
of City Council, to approve or disapprove the transfer of any license after
consideration of whether the city desires to take over the collection of the
accounts to be transferred and after consideration of the reputability of the
proposed new licensee. The city may also exercise the right of first refusal on
the purchase of said hauler’s equipment. Such consent does not release the
licensed hauler from any obligations and/or liabilities under the license.
Violation of this specification shall result in immediate forfeiture. The
license shall be binding upon respective successors, executors, administrators
and assigns, as the case may be, of the licensed hauler, who shall be
responsible for the continuation of the same in the event of dissolution,
merger and/or death of the licensee.
   (E)   A local office or a published local telephone number shall be
established by the licensed hauler. This office and the telephone number shall
be listed with the office of the City Manager and office of Code Enforcement.
   (F)   In order to provide service to the entire community, commercial
accounts unable to find service will be assigned to a commercial hauler by the
City Manager.
   (G)   If a licensed hauler is adjudged bankrupt, either voluntarily or
involuntarily, then this license shall terminate, effective on the day and at
the time the bankruptcy petition is filed, and the city shall take over said
hauler’s routes and accounts in accordance with terms and conditions of the
franchise agreement.
   (H)   In the spirit of shared responsibilities, the City Manager will secure
the assistance of the licensed hauler during spring cleanup, Christmas tree
pick-up and for other special occasions and events as identified in the
franchise agreement.
(Prior Code, § 5.02.08)
§ 53.09 SANITARY LANDFILL.
   The licensed hauler shall dispose of collected refuse, rubbish, special
rubbish and yard waste at a municipal solid waste (MSW) landfill and/or
construction and demolition debris (C&DD) landfill licensed by the State
Environmental Protection Agency, Division of Materials and Waste Management.
(Prior Code, § 5.02.09) (Ord. 09-15, passed 2-9-2015)
§ 53.10 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Applications for license under the provisions of this chapter shall be
filed with the City Manager on such forms as the City Manager shall prescribe.
   (B)   At a minimum, such application shall contain:
      (1)   A statement of the name, address and telephone number of the
applicant;
      (2)   A list of those stockholders who own 10% or more of any corporation
making application or of all partners in a partnership;
      (3)   A description of the type and condition of the equipment to be used
for collection, transportation and disposition;
      (4)   A statement that the method of disposition to be used is in
agreement with national, state and local health standards; and
      (4)   Such other facts or information as may be required by the City
Manager or contained in franchise contract specifications or agreements.
(Prior Code, § 5.02.10)
§ 53.11 RATES.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   Rates shall be determined as part of the terms of the
franchise agreement. Special rubbish may be removed by any person or by the
licensed hauler after purchase of a sticker from the City Manager’s office.
Residential householders or commercial users placing special rubbish at curb-
side or garage-side without a sticker or without the consent of the franchisee
shall be notified of the offense when it occurs.
         (b)   Any other rates not specifically established by the schedules in
this section may be established from time to time by City Council upon the
recommendation of the City Manager.
         (c)   Increases in rates during the term of the franchise agreement
shall not be considered unless by application from the licensed hauler to City
Council.
      (2)   Evidence of the necessity to raise the rates must be presented by
financial statements and whatever other documents are deemed appropriate by
City Council. After receiving such evidence, City Council, by ordinance, shall
act upon such application.
   (B)   (1)   The Auditor is hereby authorized to do billing for the
collection of residential refuse and recycling. Commercial billing will be done
by AHRC.
      (2)   Effective April 1, 2022, the trash rates are increased as follows:
         (a)   From $12.66 (effective April 1, 2022) to $13.07 (effective April
1, 2023) per customer, per month, for curbside refuse and rubbish collection
for one residence or unit and up to seven bags;
         (b)   Recycle bin and service included per customer, per month, for
curbside recycling shall be at a rate of $2 per container, per month, or
optional rental mobile toter or equivalent; and
         (c)   Five dollars per sticker for special rubbish item, large items
and trash bags (two bags per sticker) above the allotted quantities (optional).
(Prior Code, § 5.02.11) (Ord. 10-21, passed 3-1-2021; Ord. 93-21, passed 11-22-
2021; Ord. 75-22, passed 11-28-2022)
§ 53.12 UNCOLLECTED REFUSE AND RUBBISH; NUISANCE.
   Putrefying or malodorous refuse within or without containers or if dumped in
the open is declared a public nuisance. Refuse, rubbish or special rubbish
stored in receptacles or containers or in piles on the premises in possession
of the party responsible therefor for a period exceeding seven days is declared
a public nuisance. The person responsible for either or both types of nuisance
shall be liable to prosecution under the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5.02.12)
§ 53.13 COMPLAINTS.
   In the event that the licensed hauler shall breach any of the material
provisions of this chapter or the franchise agreement and shall fail to remedy
the same within a reasonable time after written notice from the City Manager to
do so, or in the event of repeated breaches of minor matters, such as debris
falling from trucks, missing customers or similar daily activities, leading to
repeated complaints to the city, the city shall have the right to revoke the
hauler’s license in accordance with terms contained in the franchise agreement.
(Prior Code, § 5.02.13)
§ 53.14 ROUTE LISTS AND SCHEDULES.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the licensed hauler to establish
routes and schedules for adequate performance under the terms of this license.
Route lists shall be filed with the City Manager’s office annually. The
licensed hauler shall notify each residential householder or commercial user of
their scheduled pick-up day.
   (B)   Holiday scheduling shall be worked out in such a manner that all those
residential householders and commercial users scheduled for service on that day
affected are notified of the change of schedule in advance of the particular
holiday.
(Prior Code, § 5.02.14)
§ 53.15 PERFORMANCE BOND.
   The licensed hauler shall furnish to the city a performance bond for the
faithful performance of this agreement. It shall be a cash bond or other surety
executed by a surety company licensed to do business in the state and deposited
with the city. Said bond shall indemnify the city against any loss resulting
from or any failure of performance by the licensed hauler. The bond shall be
established by the terms of the franchise agreement and shall not be less than
the sum of $4,000.
(Prior Code, § 5.02.15)
§ 53.16 INDEMNITY AND INSURANCE.
   (A)   The licensed hauler shall indemnify and save harmless the city and all
its executives, representatives, officers, agents, employees, successors and
assigns, jointly and severally, from any and all manner of losses, suits,
actions, payments, costs, charges, damages, judgments or claims, and demand of
any character, name or description brought on account of any injuries or
damages received or sustained by any person, persons or property by reason of
any act, omission, neglect or misconduct of the licensed hauler or the hauler’s
agents or employees in the execution of the license.
   (B)   In addition, the licensed hauler shall carry a minimum insurance
policy providing complete third-party comprehensive bodily injury and property
damage liability insurance, covering not only the licensed hauler but also the
city, the limits of which shall not be less than $300,000/$500,000 for bodily
injury and $50,000 for property damage, with the city named as coinsured with
the licensed hauler under the policy or in an amount identified in the contract
specifications. The licensed hauler shall furnish the proper certificates of
insurance coverage to the city.
(Prior Code, § 5.02.16)
§ 53.17 REGULATIONS BY THE CITY MANAGER.
   The City Manager shall promulgate such other and further rules and
regulations relating to the collection, transportation and disposition of
refuse, rubbish, special rubbish and yard waste as are not inconsistent with
the intent of this chapter or the franchise agreement and as may be necessary
to the full exercise and control of the same.
(Prior Code, § 5.02.17)
§ 53.18 EXCLUSIVE FRANCHISE AGREEMENT.
   The City Manager is hereby authorized, with the advice and consent of City
Council, to execute a consent to assignment by form and content presented by
the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 5.02.18)
§ 53.19 FRANCHISE; TERMS.
   (A)   The terms and conditions of the exclusive franchise agreement shall be
contained in such agreement and shall not be changed, modified or amended
without the permission of the city.
   (B)   The following locations shall be collected at no charge to the city:
      (1)   The city municipal building/police station complex, including a
container available to the public for deposit of recyclables;
      (2)   The city’s wastewater treatment plant with refuse and rubbish
collected every other week plus a container available to the public for deposit
of recyclables;
      (3)   The city’s water treatment plant collected every other week;
      (4)   The city’s Aquatic Center during the swimming season;
      (5)   Polly Field Recreational Park;
      (6)   All public rubbish containers of the city on and around the public
square;
      (7)   Refuse, rubbish and recyclables removal during the week of the
Parade of the Hills at pick-up locations established by the city and the
contractor; and
      (8)   Any future facilities of the city.
(Prior Code, § 5.02.19)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate any provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in an
amount not exceeding $150 for each violation. Each day in which any such
violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the city
by reason of such violation.
(Prior Code, § 5.02.99)
CHAPTER 54: RECYCLING
Section
   
54.01   Definition
   
54.02   Collection of recyclables
   
54.03   Voluntary participation
   
54.04   Prohibition against placing non-recyclables for collection
   
54.05   Recyclable containers
   
54.06   Scavenging prohibited
 
   
54.99   Penalty
§ 54.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   RECYCLABLES. Any discarded materials which may be reclaimed before deposit
in a sanitary landfill and which are considered saleable by the city. They are
defined in the following categories:
      (1)   Paper, clean and unsoiled, including newsprint; all newspaper; and
newspaper advertisements, supplements, comics and enclosures;
      (2)   Glass, bottles, aluminum cans and other aluminum products,
including aluminum trays and foil;
      (3)   Plastic cups and containers #1-7; plastic bottles, jugs; jars;
yogurt containers; cottage cheese containers, margarine and whipped topping
tubs; plastic food containers and disposable plastic cups;
      (4)   Corrugated cardboard boxes, dry food boxes such as cereal, cake mix
and cracker containers, shoe boxes, pizza boxes, empty paper towel and toilet
tissue tubes; and
      (5)   Any other material deemed recyclable by the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 5.05.01)
§ 54.02 COLLECTION OF RECYCLABLES.
   No person engaged in the business of hauling, transporting or moving of
refuse, rubbish trash, garbage, industrial wastes or organic wastes within the
city, regardless of license for collection of refuse and rubbish, nor any
independent citizen, resident, taxpayer or person who might engage in such
practice for personal gain, shall pick up or procure any solid waste deemed
recyclable which has been placed curb-side for collection under a plan to
collect recyclable materials operated or authorized by the city unless a
license for such collection is first obtained from the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 5.05.02) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.03 VOLUNTARY PARTICIPATION.
   Participation in the recycling program shall be voluntary. Any business,
citizen, resident, taxpayer or person participating in the recycling program
shall place recyclable materials in appropriate containers at curb-side on the
day of collection as designated by the City Manager. No regular collection of
recyclables shall be made on Saturdays, Sundays or holidays. Exceptions may be
made for days following holidays or acts of God when regular pickups cannot be
conducted.
(Prior Code, § 5.05.03) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.04 PROHIBITION AGAINST PLACING NON-RECYCLABLES FOR COLLECTION.
   No business, citizen, resident, taxpayer or person participating in an
authorized recycling program shall place any materials that are not defined as
recyclable under §
54.01 herein at curb-side or garage-side for collection under the recycling
program.
(Prior Code, § 5.05.04) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.05 RECYCLABLE CONTAINERS.
   To conserve the vital resources through recycling, each household or
business participating in the recycling program may be provided one container
by a licensed hauler for use for storage of recyclables. Replacements may be
purchased at cost. From the time of curb-side placement for recycling,
recyclables become the property of the city or a licensed hauler, pursuant to §
54.02.
(Prior Code, § 5.05.05)
§ 54.06 SCAVENGING PROHIBITED.
   No person, other than an employee of the city or waste contractor retained
by the city, in the performance of his or her duties, shall tamper with or sort
through garbage, refuse or recyclable materials placed out for collection.
(Ord. 60-20, passed 8-10-2020) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.30 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any violation of this chapter shall be deemed a minor misdemeanor
pursuant to R.C. § 2929.21(D) and each day of continued violation is deemed a
complete and separate offense.
   (C)   Whoever violates §
54.06 is guilty of scavenging, a minor misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $150 for each violation.
(Prior Code, § 5.05.05) (Ord. 60-20, passed 8-10-2020)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
72.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
73.   MOTOR VEHICLE CRIMES
      
74.   EQUIPMENT AND LOADS
      
75.   BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES AND OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
      
76.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
77.   PASSENGERS; OPERATORS; ACCIDENTS
      
78.   CITATION TAGS
      
79.   PENALTIES
      
80.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Scope
   
70.02   Definitions
   
70.03   Persons propelling pushcarts or riding animals
   
70.04   Workpersons engaged in repairing highway
   
70.05   Public employees; application of traffic code
   
70.06   Placing injurious material on; obstructing highway
   
70.07   Excavating, leaving mud on or building fence on highway
   
70.08   Authority of City Manager
   
70.09   Fleeing and eluding; obedience to traffic officers
   
70.10   Resisting officer
   
70.11   Owner presumed to have knowledge
   
70.12   Compliance with order of police officer
   
70.13   Exceptions generally; emergency, public safety and coroner vehicles
exempt
   
70.14   Prohibitions against pedestrians and slow-moving vehicles on
freeways   
   
70.15   Use of private property for vehicular travel
   
70.16   Names of persons damaging real property by operation of vehicle to be
provided to owner
   
70.17   Limited access highways; barriers along; vehicles to enter and leave at
designated intersection
   
70.18   Through highways
   
70.19   Officer may remove ignition key
   
70.20   Removal of vehicles after accidents
   
70.21   Electric vehicles charging stations
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.35   Traffic-control
   
70.36   Obedience required to traffic-control signals and signs
   
70.37   Interpretation of traffic-control devices
   
70.38   Pedestrian walk or wait signals
   
70.39   Flashing signals
   
70.40   Display of unauthorized signs
   
70.41   Defacing sign or signal
   
70.42   Obedience to traffic code
   
70.43   Signals over reversible lanes
   
70.44   Ambiguous or non-working traffic signal
   
70.45   Unauthorized possession or sale of devices
   
70.46   Signal preemption devices; prohibitions
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Unauthorized use of a motor vehicle, see §
131.08
Statutory reference:
   Local traffic regulations, scope and authority, see R.C. § 4511.07
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
   Traffic law photo-monitoring devices, state regulations, see R.C. §§
4511.092 et seq.
   Uniform application and precedence of state traffic laws, see R.C. § 4511.06
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 SCOPE.
   (A)   
Chapters 70 through
80, inclusive, shall be known as the “Nelsonville Traffic Code” or as the
“Traffic Code”. Where a section of the Traffic Code is followed by a reference
to the Ohio Revised Code, such reference indicates that the section is
analogous or similar to such Ohio Revised Code section.
   (B)   The provisions of the Traffic Code are intended to apply to all
traffic and to all operators not specifically excepted.
   (C)   All provisions relative to the operation, parking or movement of
vehicles or animals, and to the movements of pedestrians, apply on all the
public ways of the city, except as specifically limited.
   (D)   The provisions of the Traffic Code shall in no way limit, alter or
otherwise affect the civil or criminal responsibility of any person, under the
statutes and, particularly, the uniform traffic act of the state.
(Prior Code, § 7.01.01)
§ 70.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as otherwise provided, the definitions set forth in R.C. § 4501.01
shall apply to this Title and the penal laws of the municipality. For the
purpose of this Title, the following definitions shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL TRACTOR. Every self-propelled vehicle designed or used for
drawing other vehicles or wheeled machinery, but having no provision for
carrying loads independently of such other vehicles, and used principally for
agricultural purposes.
   ALLEY. A street or highway intended to provide access to the rear or side of
lots or buildings in urban districts, and not intended for the purpose of
through vehicular traffic, and any street or highway that has been declared an
ALLEY by the legislative authority of the municipality in which the street or
highway is located.
   ARTERIAL STREET. Any United States or state numbered route, controlled-
access highway or other major radial or circumferential street or highway
designated by local authorities within their respective jurisdictions as part
of a major arterial system of streets or highways.
   BEACON. A highway traffic signal with one or more signal sections that
operate in a flashing mode.
   BICYCLE. Every device, other than a device that is designed solely for use
as a play vehicle by a child, that is propelled solely by human power upon
which a person may ride, and that has two or more wheels, any of which is more
than 14 inches in diameter.
   BUS. Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than nine passengers,
and used for the transportation of persons other than in a ridesharing
arrangement, and every motor vehicle, automobile for hire or funeral car, other
than a taxicab or motor vehicle used in a ridesharing arrangement, designed and
used for the transportation of persons for compensation.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory fronting upon a street or highway,
including the street or highway, between successive intersections within the
municipality, where 50% or more of the frontage between successive
intersections is occupied by buildings in use for business, or within or
outside the municipality where 50% or more of the frontage for a distance of
300 feet or more is occupied by buildings in use for business, and the
character of the territory is indicated by official traffic-control devices.
   CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINE. A motor vehicle that is designed to carry nine or
fewer passengers and is operated for hire pursuant to a prearranged contract
for the transportation of passengers on public roads and highways along a route
under the control of the person hiring the vehicle and not over a defined and
regular route. PREARRANGED CONTRACT means an agreement, made in advance of
boarding, to provide transportation from a specific location in an chauffeured
limousine. The term does not include any vehicle that is used exclusively in
the business of funeral directing.
(R.C. § 4501.01(LL))
   CHILD DAY-CARE CENTER. Has the same meaning as set forth in R.C. § 5104.01.
   COMMERCIAL TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle having motive power designed or used
for drawing other vehicles, and not so constructed as to carry any load
thereon, or designed or used for drawing other vehicles while carrying a
portion of the other vehicles, or the load thereon, or both.
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every street or highway in respect to which
owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal right or
access to or from the same except at certain points only and in a manner as may
be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over the street or
highway.
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   That part of a roadway at intersections ordinarily included within
the real or projected prolongation of property lines and curb lines or, in the
absence of curbs, the edges of the traversable roadway;
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere,
distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the
surface; or
      (3)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this definition, there
shall not be a crosswalk where the legislative authority has placed signs
indicating no crossing.
   DRIVER or OPERATOR. Any person who drives or is in actual physical control
of a vehicle.
   ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a “class 1 electric bicycle”, a “class 2 electric
bicycle” or a “class 3 electric bicycle” as defined below.
      (1)   CLASS 1 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. A bicycle that is equipped with fully
operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that provides
assistance only when the rider is pedaling and ceases to provide assistance
when the bicycle reaches the speed of 20 mph.
      (2)   CLASS 2 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. A bicycle that is equipped with fully
operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that may provide
assistance regardless of whether the rider is pedaling and is not capable of
providing assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 20 mph.
      (3)   CLASS 3 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. A bicycle that is equipped with fully
operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that provides
assistance only when the rider is pedaling and ceases to provide assistance
when the bicycle reaches the speed of 28 mph.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Emergency vehicles of municipal, township or county
departments or public utility corporations, when identified as such as required
by law, the Director of Public Safety or local authorities, and motor vehicles
when commandeered by a police officer.
   EXPLOSIVES. Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is intended for
the purpose of producing an explosion that contains any oxidizing and
combustible units or other ingredients in such proportions, quantities or
packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by percussion or
by a detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause a sudden
generation of highly heated gases, such that the resultant gaseous pressures
are capable of producing destructive effects on contiguous objects, or of
destroying life or limb. Manufactured articles shall not be held to be
EXPLOSIVES when the individual units contain explosives in limited quantities
of such nature or in such packing that it is impossible to procure a
simultaneous or a destructive explosion of the units, to the injury of life,
limb or property by fire, friction, concussion, percussion or by a detonator,
such as fixed ammunition for small arms, firecrackers or safety fuse matches.
   EXPRESSWAY. A divided arterial highway for through traffic with full or
partial control of access with an excess of 50% of all crossroads separated in
grade.
   FLAMMABLE LIQUID. Any liquid which has a flash point of 70°F or less, as
determined by a tagliabue or equivalent closed cup test device.
   FREEWAY. A divided multi-lane highway for through traffic with crossroads
separated in grade and with full control of access.
   FUNERAL ESCORT VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, including a funeral hearse, while
used to facilitate the movement of a funeral procession.
   FUNERAL PROCESSION. Two or more vehicles accompanying a body of a deceased
person in the daytime when each of such vehicles has its headlights lighted and
is displaying a purple and white pennant attached to each vehicle in such a
manner as to be clearly visible to traffic approaching from any direction
(Prior Code, § 7.01.02)
   GROSS WEIGHT. The weight of a vehicle plus the weight of any load thereon.
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way open to
the use of the public as a thoroughfare for purposes of vehicular travel.
   HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle used in snow and ice removal or road
surface maintenance, including a snow plow, traffic line striper, road sweeper,
mowing machine, asphalt distributing vehicle or other such vehicle designed for
use in specific highway maintenance activities.
   HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SIGNAL. A power-operated traffic-control device by which
traffic is warned or directed to take some specific action. The term does not
include a power-operated sign, steadily illuminated pavement marker, warning
light or steady burning electric lamp.
   HYBRID BEACON. A type of beacon that is intentionally placed in a dark mode
between periods of operation where no indications are displayed and, when in
operation, displays both steady and flashing traffic-control signal
indications.
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of
two highways that join one another at, or approximately at, right angles, or
the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways that join at
any other angle might come into conflict. The junction of an alley or driveway
with a roadway or highway does not constitute an intersection unless the
roadway or highway at the junction is controlled by a traffic-control device.
      (2)   If a highway includes two roadways that are 30 feet or more apart,
then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway constitutes a separate intersection. If both intersecting highways
include two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then every crossing of any two
roadways of such highways constitutes a separate intersection.
      (3)   At a location controlled by a traffic-control signal, regardless of
the distance between the separate intersections as described in division (2)
above:
         (a)   If a stop line, yield line or crosswalk has not been designated
on the roadway within the median between the separate intersections, the two
intersections and the roadway and median constitute one intersection.
         (b)   Where a stop line, yield line or crosswalk line is designated on
the roadway on the intersection approach, the area within the crosswalk and any
area beyond the designated stop line or yield line constitute part of the
intersection.
         (c)   Where a crosswalk is designated on a roadway on the departure
from the intersection, the intersection includes the area that extends to the
far side of the crosswalk.
   LANED HIGHWAY. A highway the roadway of which is divided into two or more
clearly marked lanes for vehicular traffic.
   LOCAL AUTHORITIES. Every county, municipal and other local board or body
having authority to adopt police regulations under the Constitution and laws of
this state.
   LOW-SPEED MICROMOBILITY DEVICE. A device weighing less than 100 pounds that
has handlebars, is propelled by an electric motor or human power and has an
attainable speed on a paved level surface of not more than 20 mph when
propelled by the electric motor.
   MEDIAN. The area between two roadways of a divided highway, measured from
edge of traveled way to edge of traveled way, but excluding turn lanes. The
width of a median may be different between intersections, between interchanges
and at opposite approaches of the same intersection.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle propelled or drawn by power other than muscular
power or power collected from overhead electric trolley wires, except motorized
bicycles, electric bicycles, road rollers, traction engines, power shovels,
power cranes and other equipment used in construction work, and not designed
for or employed in general highway transportation, hole-digging machinery,
well-drilling machinery, ditch-digging machinery, farm machinery and trailers
designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage
and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or
highway for a distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 mph or
less.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle, other than a tractor, having a seat or
saddle for the use of the operator and designed to travel on not more than
three wheels in contact with the ground, including, but not limited to, motor
vehicles known as “motor-driven cycle”, “motor scooter”, “autocycle”, “cab-
enclosed motorcycle” or “motorcycle” without regard to weight or brake
horsepower.
   MOTORIZED BICYCLE or MOPED. Any vehicle having either two tandem wheels or
one wheel in the front and two wheels in the rear, that may be pedaled and that
is equipped with a helper motor of not more than 50 cubic centimeters piston
displacement that produces not more than one brake horsepower and is capable of
propelling the vehicle at a speed of not greater than 20 mph on a level
surface. The terms do not include an electric bicycle.
   MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIR. Any self-propelled vehicle designed for, and used by,
a person with a disability and that is incapable of a speed in excess of eight
mph.
   MULTI-WHEEL AGRICULTURAL TRACTOR. A type of agricultural tractor that has
two or more wheels or tires on each side of one axle at the rear of the
tractor, is designed or used for drawing other vehicles or wheeled machinery,
has no provision for carrying loads independently of the drawn vehicles or
machinery and is used principally for agricultural purposes.
   NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION. The national highway traffic
administration established as an administration of the United States Department
of Transportation under 49 U.S.C. § 105.
(Prior Code, § 7.01.02)
   OPERATE. To cause or have caused movement of a vehicle.
   OPERATOR. Any person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   PARK. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, otherwise than
temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or
unloading, or receiving or discharging passengers.
(Prior Code, § 7.01.02)
   PARKED or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle upon a street, road, alley,
highway or public ground, whether accompanied or unaccompanied by a driver, but
does not include the temporary standing of a vehicle for the purpose of and
while actually engaged in loading or loading merchandise or passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any natural person afoot. The term includes a personal delivery
device as defined in R.C. § 4511.513 unless the context clearly suggests
otherwise.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, partnership, association or corporation.
   PHYSICAL CONTROL. Being in the driver’s position of the front seat of a
vehicle or in the driver’s position of a streetcar or trackless trolley and
having possession of the vehicle’s, streetcar’s or trackless trolley’s ignition
key or other ignition device.
(Prior Code, § 7.01.02)
   POLE TRAILER. Every trailer or semitrailer attached to the towing vehicle by
means of a reach, pole or by being boomed or otherwise secured to the towing
vehicle, and ordinarily used for transporting long or irregular shaped loads
such as poles, pipes or structural members capable, generally, of sustaining
themselves as beams between the supporting connections.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic, or
to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
   PREDICATE MOTOR VEHICLE OR TRAFFIC OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. §§ 4511.03, 4511.051, 4511.12, 4511.132,
4511.16, 4511.20, 4511.201, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.213, 4511.22, 4511.23,
4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32,
4511.33, 4511.34, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40,
4511.41, 4511.42, 4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.432, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.451,
4511.452, 4511.46, 4511.47, 4511.48, 4511.481, 4511.49, 4511.50, 4511.511,
4511.53, 4511.54, 4511.55, 4511.56, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59, 4511.60,
4511.61, 4511.64, 4511.66, 4511.661, 4511.68, 4511.70, 4511.701, 4511.71,
4511.711, 4511.712, 4511.713, 4511.72, 4511.73, 4511.763, 4511.771, 4511.78 or
4511.84;
      (2)   A violation of R.C. §§ 4511.17(A)(2), 4511.51(A) through (D) or
4511.74(A);
      (3)   A violation of any provision of R.C. §§ 4511.01 through 4511.76 for
which no penalty otherwise is provided in the section that contains the
provision violated;
      (4)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.214; or
      (5)   A violation of a municipal ordinance that is substantially
equivalent to any section or provision set forth or described in division (1),
(2), (3) or (4) above.
   PRIVATE ROAD OPEN TO PUBLIC TRAVEL. A private toll road or road, including
any adjacent sidewalks that generally run parallel to the road, within a
shopping center, airport, sports arena or other similar business or recreation
facility that is privately owned but where the public is allowed to travel
without access restrictions. The term includes a gated toll road but does not
include a road within a private gated property where access is restricted at
all times, a parking area, a driving aisle within a parking area or a private
grade crossing.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership used for
vehicular travel by the owner, and those having express or implied permission
from the owner, but not by other persons.
   PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. Any of the following:
      (1)   Ambulances, including private ambulance companies under contract to
a municipality, township or county, and private ambulances and nontransport
vehicles bearing license plates issued under R.C. § 4503.49;
      (2)   Motor vehicles used by public law enforcement officers or other
persons sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state;
      (3)   Any motor vehicle when properly identified as required by the
Director of Public Safety, when used in response to fire emergency calls or to
provide emergency medical service to ill or injured persons, and when operated
by a duly qualified person who is a member of a volunteer rescue service or a
volunteer fire department, and who is on duty pursuant to the rules or
directives of that service. The State Fire Marshal shall be designated by the
Director of Public Safety as the certifying agency for all public safety
vehicles described herein;
      (4)   Vehicles used by fire departments, including motor vehicles when
used by volunteer firefighters responding to emergency calls in the fire
department service when identified as required by the Director of Public
Safety;
      (5)   Any vehicle used to transport or provide emergency medical service
to an ill or injured person, when certified as a public safety vehicle, shall
be considered such a vehicle when transporting an ill or injured person to a
hospital, regardless of whether such vehicle has already passed a hospital; or
      (6)   Vehicles used by the Motor Carrier Enforcement Unit for the
enforcement of orders and rules of the Public Utilities Commission as specified
in R.C. § 5503.34.
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property operating upon rails placed
principally on a private right-of-way.
   RAILROAD SIGN OR SIGNAL. Any sign, signal or device erected by authority of
a public body or official or by a railroad, and intended to give notice of the
presence of railroad tracks or the approach of a railroad train.
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine or an electric or other motor, with or
without cars coupled thereto, operated by a railroad.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory, not comprising a business district,
fronting on a street or highway, including the street or highway, where, for a
distance of 300 feet or more, the frontage is improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
   RIDESHARING ARRANGEMENT. Includes the transportation of persons in a motor
vehicle where the transportation is incidental to another purpose of a
volunteer driver, and includes arrangements known as carpools, vanpools and
buspools.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Either of the following, as the context requires:
      (1)   The right of a vehicle or pedestrian to proceed uninterruptedly in
a lawful manner in the direction in which it, he or she is moving, in
preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching from a different
direction into its, his or her path; or
      (2)   A general term denoting land, property or the interest therein,
usually in the configuration of a strip, acquired for or devoted to
transportation purposes. When used in this context, RIGHT-OF-WAY includes the
roadway, shoulders or berm, ditch and slopes extending to the right-of-way
limits under the control of the state or local authority.
   ROAD SERVICE VEHICLE. Wreckers, utility repair vehicles and state, county
and municipal service vehicles equipped with visual signals by means of
flashing, rotating or oscillating lights.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, except the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes two or
more separate roadways, the term means any roadway separately, but not all the
roadways collectively.
   RURAL MAIL DELIVERY VEHICLE. Every vehicle used to deliver United States
mail on a rural mail delivery route.
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians, and protected or marked or indicated by adequate
signs so as to be plainly visible at all times.
   SCHOOL BUS. Every bus designed for carrying more than nine passengers which
is owned by a public, private or governmental agency or institution of
learning, and operated for the transportation of children to or from a school
session or a school function, or owned by a private person and operated for
compensation for the transportation of children to or from a school session or
a school function; provided the term does not include a bus operated by a
municipally owned transportation system, a mass transit company operating
exclusively within the territorial limits of a municipality, or within such
limits and the territorial limits of municipalities immediately contiguous to
the municipality, nor a common passenger carrier certified by the Public
Utilities Commission unless the bus is devoted exclusively to the
transportation of children to and from a school session or a school function,
and the term does not include a van or bus used by a licensed child day-care
center or Type A Family Day-Care Home to transport children from the child day-
care center or Type A Family Day-Care Home to a school if the van or bus does
not have more than 15 children in the van or bus at any time.
   SEMITRAILER. Every vehicle designed or used for carrying persons or property
with another and separate motor vehicle so that in operation a part of its own
weight or that of its load, or both, rests upon and is carried by another
vehicle.
   SHARED-USE PATH. A bikeway outside the traveled way and physically separated
from motorized vehicular traffic by an open space or barrier and either within
the highway right-of-way or within an independent alignment. A SHARED-USE PATH
also may be used by pedestrians, including skaters, joggers, users of manual
and motorized wheelchairs and other authorized motorized and non-motorized
users. A SHARED-USE PATH does not include any trail that is intended to be used
primarily for mountain biking, hiking, equestrian use or other similar uses, or
any other single track or natural surface trail that has historically been
reserved for non-motorized use.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
line of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STANDING. When prohibited, means any halting of a vehicle, even momentarily,
except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance
with the directions of a police officer or traffic-control device.
   STATE HIGHWAY. A highway under the jurisdiction of the Department of
Transportation, outside the limits of municipalities, provided that the
authority conferred upon the Director of Transportation in R.C. § 5511.01 to
erect state highway route markers and signs directing traffic shall not be
modified by R.C. §§ 4511.01 through 4511.79 and 4511.99.
   STATE ROUTE. Every highway which is designated with an official state route
number and so marked.
   STOP. When required, means a complete cessation of movement.
   STOP INTERSECTION. Any intersection at one or more entrances of which stop
signs are erected.
   STOPPING. When prohibited, means any halting of a vehicle, even momentarily,
except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance
with the directions of a police officer or traffic-control device.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
open to the use of the public as a thoroughfare for purposes of vehicular
travel.
(Prior Code, § 7.01.02)
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every street or highway as provided in R.C. § 4511.65, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   THRUWAY. A through highway whose entire roadway is reserved for through
traffic and on which roadway parking is prohibited.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars and
other devices, either singly or together, while using for purposes of travel
any highway or private road open to public travel.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE. A flagger, sign, signal, marking or other device
used to regulate, warn or guide traffic, placed on, over or adjacent to a
street, highway, private road open to public travel, pedestrian facility or
shared-use path by authority of a public agency or official having
jurisdiction, or, in the case of a private road open to public travel, by
authority of the private owner or private official having jurisdiction.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL. Any highway traffic signal by which traffic is
alternately directed to stop and permitted to proceed.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle designed or used for carrying persons or property
wholly on its own structure, and for being drawn by a motor vehicle, including
any vehicle when formed by or operated as a combination of a semitrailer and a
vehicle of the dolly type, such as that commonly known as a trailer dolly, a
vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or agricultural production
materials between a local place of storage or supply and the farm when drawn or
towed on a street or highway at a speed greater than 25 mph and a vehicle
designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage
and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or
highway for a distance of more than ten miles or at a speed of more than 25
mph.
   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle, except trailers and semitrailers, designed and
used to carry property.
   TYPE A FAMILY DAY-CARE HOME. Has the same meaning as set forth in R.C. §
5104.01.
   UNLAWFUL. Every act or omission declared unlawful in the Traffic Code is an
offense against the peace and dignity of the city, and is punishable as
provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7.01.02)
   URBAN DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including any street or
highway which is built up with structures devoted to business, industry or
dwelling houses situated at intervals of less than 100 feet for a distance of
one-quarter of a mile or more, and the character of the territory is indicated
by official traffic-control devices.
   VEHICLE. Every device, including a motorized bicycle and an electric
bicycle, in, upon or by which any person or property may be transported or
drawn upon a highway, except that the term does not include any motorized
wheelchair, any electric personal assistive mobility device, any low-speed
micromobility device, any personal delivery device as defined in R.C. §
4511.513, any device that is moved by power collected from overhead electric
trolley wires or that is used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks or
any device, other than a bicycle, that is moved by human power.
   WASTE COLLECTION VEHICLE. A vehicle used in the collection of garbage,
refuse, trash or recyclable materials.
(R.C. § 4511.01) (Prior Code, § 7.01.02)
§ 70.03 PERSONS PROPELLING PUSHCARTS OR RIDING ANIMALS.
   Every person riding, driving or leading an animal upon a roadway is subject
to the provisions of this traffic code, applicable to the driver of a vehicle,
except those provisions of this traffic code which by their nature are
inapplicable.
(R.C. § 4511.05) (Prior Code, § 7.01.03)
§ 70.04 WORKERS ENGAGED IN REPAIRING HIGHWAY.
   (A)   The provisions of this traffic code shall not apply to persons, teams,
motor vehicles and other equipment while actually engaged in work upon the
surface of a highway within an area designated by traffic-control devices but
shall apply to such persons and vehicles when traveling to or from such work.
   (B)   The drivers of snow plows, traffic line strippers, road sweepers,
mowing machines, tar distributing vehicles and other vehicles utilized in snow
and ice removal or road surface maintenance, while engaged in work upon a
highway, provided such vehicles are equipped with flashing lights and other
such markings, as are required by law, and such lights are in operation when
the vehicles are so engaged shall be exempt from this traffic code. Such
exemption shall not apply to drivers when their vehicles are not so engaged.
(Prior Code, § 7.01.04)
§ 70.05 PUBLIC EMPLOYEES; APPLICATION OF TRAFFIC CODE.
   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any vehicle
owned by or used in the service of the United States government, this state,
county or city, and it shall be unlawful for any such driver to violate any of
the provisions of this traffic code, except as otherwise permitted in this
traffic code or by state statute.
(Prior Code, § 7.01.05)
§ 70.06 PLACING INJURIOUS MATERIAL ON; OBSTRUCTING HIGHWAY.
   (A)   No person shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a highway,
lane, road, street or alley any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails or other
articles which may damage or injure any person, vehicle, trackless trolley or
animal traveling along or upon such highway, except such substances that may be
placed upon the roadway by proper authority for the repair or construction
thereof.
   (B)   Any person who drops or permits to be dropped or thrown upon any
highway any destructive or injurious material shall immediately remove the
same.
   (C)   Any person authorized to remove a wrecked or damaged vehicle or
trackless trolley from a highway shall remove any glass or other injurious
substance dropped upon the highway from such vehicle or trackless trolley.
   (D)   No person shall place any obstruction in or upon a highway without
proper authority.
(Prior Code, § 7.01.06)
§ 70.07 EXCAVATING, LEAVING MUD ON OR BUILDING FENCE ON HIGHWAY.
   (A)   No person shall dig up, remove, excavate or place any earth or mud
upon any portion of any public highway or build a fence upon the same without
authority to do so.
   (B)   Each day that such person continues to dig up, remove or excavate any
portion of the public highway constitutes a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 7.01.07)
§ 70.08 AUTHORITY OF CITY MANAGER.
   The City Manager is empowered to make and enforce regulations necessary to
make effective the provisions of the traffic code and to make and enforce
temporary regulations to cover emergencies or special conditions.
(Prior Code, § 7.01.08)
§ 70.09 FLEEING AND ELUDING; OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC OFFICERS.
   (A)   No person shall fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any police officer invested by law with authority to direct,
control or regulate traffic.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle so as to willfully elude or
flee a police officer after receiving a visible or audible signal from a police
officer to bring his or her motor vehicle to a stop.
   (C)   A violation is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   In addition to any other sanction imposed for a violation of this
section, the Court shall impose a class two suspension from the range specified
in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(2). If the offender previously has been found guilty of an
offense under this section, the Court shall impose a class one suspension as
described in division (A)(1) of that section. The Court shall not grant limited
driving privileges to the offender. No judge shall suspend the first three
years of the suspension under a class two suspension of an offender’s license,
permit or privilege required by this division (D) on any portion of the
suspension under a class one suspension of an offender’s license, permit or
privilege required by this division (D).
(Prior Code, § 7.01.17)
§ 70.10 RESISTING OFFICER.
   No person shall resist, hinder, obstruct or abuse any sheriff, police
officer or other official while such official is attempting to arrest offenders
under any provisions of the traffic code or interfere with any person charged
under its provisions with the enforcement of the law relative to public
highways, streets and alleys.
(Prior Code, § 7.01.18)
§ 70.11 OWNER PRESUMED TO HAVE KNOWLEDGE.
   The violation of any section or provision of the traffic code by means of a
motor vehicle shall be prima facie evidence that such violation was committed
by or with the authority or permission of the owner of such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 7.01.19)
§ 70.12 COMPLIANCE WITH ORDER OF POLICE OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall fail to comply with any lawful order or direction of
any police officer invested with authority to direct, control or regulate
traffic.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle so as willfully to elude or
flee a police officer after receiving a visible or audible signal from a police
officer to bring the person’s motor vehicle to a stop.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to comply
with an order or signal of a police officer.
      (2)   A violation of division (A) above is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (3)   Except as provided in divisions (C)(4) and (C)(5) below, a
violation of division (B) above is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (C)(5) below, a violation of
division (B) above is a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate state
law if the jury or judge as trier of fact finds by proof beyond a reasonable
doubt that in committing the offense, the offender was fleeing immediately
after the commission of a felony.
      (5)   (a)   A violation of division (B) above is a felony and shall be
prosecuted under appropriate state law if the jury or judge as trier of fact
finds any of the following by proof beyond a reasonable doubt.
            1.   The operation of the motor vehicle by the offender was a
proximate cause of serious physical harm to persons or property.
            2.   The operation of the motor vehicle by the offender caused a
substantial risk of serious physical harm to persons or property.
         (b)   If a police officer pursues an offender who is violating
division (B) above and division (C)(5)(a) above applies, the sentencing court,
in determining the seriousness of an offender’s conduct for purposes of
sentencing the offender for a violation of division (B) above, shall consider,
along with the factors set forth in R.C. §§ 2929.12 and 2929.13 that are
required to be considered, all of the following:
            1.   The duration of the pursuit;
            2.   The distance of the pursuit;
            3.   The rate of speed at which the offender operated the motor
vehicle during the pursuit;
            4.   Whether the offender failed to stop for traffic lights or stop
signs during the pursuit;
            5.   The number of traffic lights or stop signs for which the
offender failed to stop during the pursuit;
            6.   Whether the offender operated the motor vehicle during the
pursuit without lighted lights during a time when lighted lights are required;
            7.   Whether the offender committed a moving violation during the
pursuit;
            8.   The number of moving violations the offender committed during
the pursuit; and
            9.   Any other relevant factors indicating that the offender’s
conduct is more serious than conduct normally constituting the offense.
   (D)   In addition to any other sanction imposed for a violation of division
(A) above or a misdemeanor violation of division (B) above, the court shall
impose a class five suspension from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)
(5). If the offender previously has been found guilty of an offense under this
section or under R.C. § 2921.331 or any other substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, in addition to any other sanction imposed for the offense,
the court shall impose a class one suspension as described in R.C. § 4510.02(A)
(1). The court may grant limited driving privileges to the offender on a
suspension imposed for a misdemeanor violation of this section as set forth in
R.C. § 4510.021. No judge shall suspend any portion of the suspension under a
class one suspension of an offender’s license, permit or privilege required by
this division.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      MOVING VIOLATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2743.70.
      POLICE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 2921.331(A) - (C), (E), (F))
Cross-reference:
   Resisting arrest, see §
136.06
§ 70.13 EXCEPTIONS GENERALLY; EMERGENCY, PUBLIC SAFETY AND CORONER VEHICLES
EXEMPT.
   (A)   The provisions of this traffic code, except for §§
73.01 and
73.02, do not apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles and other equipment while
actually engaged in work upon the surface of a highway within an area
designated by traffic-control devices, but apply to those persons and vehicles
when traveling to or from such work.
   (B)   The driver of a highway maintenance vehicle owned by this state or any
political subdivision of this state, while the driver is engaged in the
performance of official duties upon a street or highway, provided the highway
maintenance vehicle is equipped with flashing lights and such other markings as
are required by law and such lights are in operation when the driver and
vehicle are so engaged, shall be exempt from criminal prosecution for
violations of R.C. §§ 4511.22, 4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.30,
4511.31, 4511.33, 4511.35, 4511.66 and 4513.02, and R.C. §§ 5577.01 through
5577.09, and any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   (1)   This section does not exempt a driver of a highway maintenance
vehicle from civil liability arising from a violation of R.C. § 4511.22,
4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.33, 4511.35, 4511.66
or 4513.02 or R.C. §§ 5577.01 through 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
      (2)   This section does not exempt a driver of a vehicle who is not a
state employee and who is engaged in the transport of highway maintenance
equipment from criminal liability for a violation of R.C. §§ 5577.01 through
5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   As used in this section, ENGAGED IN THE PERFORMANCE OF OFFICIAL DUTIES
includes driving a highway maintenance vehicle to and from the manufacturer or
vehicle maintenance provider and transporting a highway maintenance vehicle,
equipment or materials to and from a work location.
(R.C. § 4511.04)
   (E)   The provisions of R.C. §§ 4511.12, 4511.13, 4511.131, 4511.132,
4511.14, 4511.202, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.22, 4511.23, 4511.25, 4511.26,
4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33, 4511.34,
4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40, 4511.41, 4511.42,
4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.432, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59,
4511.60, 4511.61, 4511.62, 4511.66, 4511.68, 4511.681 and 4511.69, and any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, do not apply to the driver of an
emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle if the emergency vehicle or public
safety vehicle is responding to an emergency call, is equipped with and
displaying at least one flashing, rotating or oscillating light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle and if the driver of the vehicles is giving an audible signal by siren,
exhaust whistle or bell. This section does not relieve the driver of an
emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.041)
   (F)   The provisions of R.C. §§ 4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29,
4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38 and
4511.66, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, do not apply to
a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle
in accordance with R.C. § 4513.171 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance. This division does not relieve a coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle from the duty to drive with
due regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.042)
§ 70.14 PROHIBITIONS AGAINST PEDESTRIANS AND SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES ON FREEWAYS.
   (A)   No person, unless otherwise directed by a police officer, shall:
      (1)   As a pedestrian, occupy any space within the limits of the right-
of-way of a freeway, except: in a rest area; on a facility that is separated
from the roadway and shoulders of the freeway and is designed and appropriately
marked for pedestrian use; in the performance of public works or official
duties; as a result of an emergency caused by an accident or breakdown of a
motor vehicle; or to obtain assistance; or
      (2)   Occupy any space within the limits of the right-of-way of a
freeway, with: an animal- drawn vehicle; a ridden or led animal; herded
animals; a pushcart; a bicycle, except on a facility that is separated from the
roadway and shoulders of the freeway and is designed and appropriately marked
for bicycle use; an electric bicycle; a bicycle with motor attached; a motor-
driven cycle with a motor which produces not to exceed five brake horsepower;
an agricultural tractor; farm machinery; except in the performance of public
works or official duties.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.051)
Statutory reference:
   Designation of a freeway, see R.C. § 4511.011
§ 70.15 USE OF PRIVATE PROPERTY FOR VEHICULAR TRAVEL.
   The provisions of this traffic code do not prevent the owner of real
property, used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel by permission of
the owner and not as a matter of right, from prohibiting such use or from
requiring additional conditions to those specified in this traffic code, or
otherwise regulating such use as may seem best to the owner.
(R.C. § 4511.08)
§ 70.16 NAMES OF PERSONS DAMAGING REAL PROPERTY BY OPERATION OF VEHICLE TO BE
PROVIDED TO OWNER.
   (A)   As used in this section, MOTOR VEHICLE has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 4501.01.
   (B)   If damage is caused to real property by the operation of a motor
vehicle in, or during the, violation of any section of the Ohio Revised Code or
of any municipal ordinance, the law enforcement agency that investigates the
case, upon request of the real property owner, shall provide the owner with the
names of the persons who are charged with the commission of the offense. If a
request for the names is made, the agency shall provide the names as soon as
possible after the persons are charged with the offense.
   (C)   The personnel of law enforcement agencies who act pursuant to division
(B) above in good faith are not liable in damages in a civil action allegedly
arising from their actions taken pursuant to that division. Political
subdivisions and the state are not liable in damages in a civil action
allegedly arising from the actions of personnel of their law enforcement
agencies if the personnel have immunity under this division.
(R.C. § 2935.28)
§ 70.17 LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAYS; BARRIERS ALONG; VEHICLES TO ENTER AND LEAVE AT
DESIGNATED INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall cut, injure, remove or destroy
any fence or other barrier designed and erected to prevent traffic from
entering or leaving a limited access highway without the permission of the
Director of Transportation, except in a case of emergency where life or
property is in danger. No person, firm or corporation shall cause a vehicle of
any character to enter or leave a limited access highway at any point other
than intersections designated by the Director for such purposes, except in a
case of emergency where life or property is in danger.
(R.C. § 3767.201)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 3767.99(D))
§ 70.18 THROUGH HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   (1)   All state routes are hereby designated as through highways,
provided that stop signs, yield signs or traffic-control signals shall be
erected at all intersections with such through highways by the Department of
Transportation as to highways under its jurisdiction and by local authorities
as to highways under their jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this
section. Where two or more state routes that are through highways intersect,
and no traffic-control signal is in operation, stop signs or yield signs shall
be erected at one or more entrances thereto by the Department or by local
authorities having jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this section.
      (2)   Whenever the Director of Transportation determines on the basis of
an engineering and traffic investigation that stop signs are necessary to stop
traffic on a through highway for safe and efficient operation, nothing in this
section shall be construed to prevent such installations. When circumstances
warrant, the Director also may omit stop signs on roadways intersecting through
highways under his or her jurisdiction. Before the Director either installs or
removes a stop sign under this division, he or she shall give notice, in
writing, of that proposed action to the affected local authority at least 30
days before installing or removing the stop sign.
   (B)   (1)   Other streets or highways, or portions thereof, are hereby
designated as through highways if they are within the municipality, if they
have a continuous length of more than one mile between the limits of the street
or highway or portion thereof, and if they have stop or yield signs or traffic-
control signals at the entrances of the majority of intersecting streets or
highways.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, the limits of the street or highway,
or portion thereof, shall be the municipal corporation line, the physical
terminus of the street or highway or any point on the streets or highway at
which vehicular traffic thereon is required by regulatory signs to stop or
yield to traffic on the intersecting street; provided, that in residence
districts, the municipality may by ordinance designate such street or highway,
or portion thereof, not to be a through highway and thereafter the affected
residence district shall be indicated by official traffic-control devices.
      (3)   Where two or more through highways designated under this division
intersect and no traffic-control signal is in operation, stop signs or yield
signs shall be erected at one or more entrances thereto by the Department or by
local authorities having jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this
section.
   (C)   The Department, or local authorities having jurisdiction, need not
erect stop signs at intersections they find to be so constructed as to permit
traffic to safely enter a through highway without coming to a stop. Signs shall
be erected at such intersections indicating that the operator of a vehicle
shall yield the right-of-way to or merge with all traffic proceeding on the
through highway.
   (D)   Local authorities, with reference to highways under their
jurisdiction, may designate additional through highways, and shall erect stop
signs, yield signs or traffic-control signals at all streets and highways
intersecting such through highways, or may designate any intersection as a stop
or yield intersection, and shall erect like signs at one or more entrances to
the intersection.
(R.C. § 4511.65)
§ 70.19 OFFICER MAY REMOVE IGNITION KEY.
   A law enforcement officer may remove the ignition key left in the ignition
switch of an unlocked and unattended motor vehicle parked on a street or
highway. The officer removing the key shall place notification upon the vehicle
detailing his or her name and badge number, the place where the key may be
reclaimed and the procedure for reclaiming the key. The key shall be returned
to the owner of the motor vehicle upon presentation of proof of ownership.
(R.C. § 4549.05)
§ 70.20 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES AFTER ACCIDENTS.
   (A)   If a motor vehicle accident occurs on any highway, public street or
other property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel and if any
motor vehicle, cargo or personal property that has been damaged or spilled as a
result of the motor vehicle accident is blocking the highway, street or other
property or is otherwise endangering public safety, a public safety official
may do either of the following without the consent of the owner but with the
approval of the law enforcement agency conducting any investigation of the
accident:
      (1)   Remove, or order the removal of, the motor vehicle if the motor
vehicle is unoccupied, cargo, or personal property from the portion of the
highway, public street or property ordinarily used for vehicular travel on the
highway, public street or other property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel; or
      (2)   If the motor vehicle is a commercial motor vehicle, allow the owner
or operator of the vehicle the opportunity to arrange for the removal of the
motor vehicle within a period of time specified by the public safety official.
If the public safety official determines that the motor vehicle cannot be
removed within the specified period of time, the public safety official shall
remove or order the removal of the motor vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) below, the Department of
Transportation, any employee of the Department of Transportation or a public
safety official who authorizes or participates in the removal of any unoccupied
motor vehicle, cargo or personal property as authorized by division (A) above,
regardless of whether the removal is executed by a private towing service, is
not liable for civil damages for any injury, death or loss to person or
property that results from the removal of that unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo
or personal property. Further, except as provided in division (B)(2) below, if
a public safety official authorizes, employs or arranges to have a private
towing service remove any unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo or personal property
as authorized by division (A) above, that private towing service is not liable
for civil damages for any injury, death or loss to person or property that
results from the removal of that unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo or personal
property.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) above does not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   Any person or entity involved in the removal of an unoccupied
motor vehicle, cargo or personal property pursuant to division (A) above if
that removal causes or contributes to the release of a hazardous material or to
structural damage to the roadway;
         (b)   A private towing service that was not authorized, employed or
arranged by a public safety official to remove an unoccupied motor vehicle,
cargo or personal property under this section;
         (c)   Except as provided in division (B)(2)(d) below, a private towing
service that was authorized, employed or arranged by a public safety official
to perform the removal of the unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo or personal
property but the private towing service performed the removal in a negligent
manner; or
         (d)   A private towing service that was authorized, employed or
arranged by a public safety official to perform the removal of the unoccupied
motor vehicle, cargo or personal property that was endangering public safety
but the private towing service performed the removal in a reckless manner.
   (C)   As used in divisions (A) and (B) above:
      HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.232.
      PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICIAL. Any of the following:
         (a)   The sheriff of the county, or the chief of police in the
municipal corporation, township, port authority, or township or joint police
district, in which the accident occurred;
         (b)   A state highway patrol trooper;
         (c)   The Chief of the Fire Department having jurisdiction where the
accident occurred; or
         (d)   A duly authorized subordinate acting on behalf of an official
specified in divisions (a) to (c) above.
(R.C. § 4513.66)
   (D)   If a towing service is removing a motor vehicle, and the removal was
not authorized under R.C. §§ 4513.60, 4513.601, 4513.61 or 4513.66, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, prior to removing the motor
vehicle, the towing service shall provide a written estimate of the price for
the removal to the operator of the motor vehicle, if requested.
   (E)   The towing service shall ensure that any estimate provided under
division (D) above includes the fees, services to be rendered and destination
of the vehicle.
   (F)   If a towing service fails to provide a written estimate as required by
this section, the towing service shall not charge fees for the towing and
storage of the motor vehicle that exceed 25% of any applicable fees established
by the Public Utilities Commission in rules adopted under R.C. § 4921.25(B)(4)
or, if the vehicle was towed within a municipal corporation that has
established vehicle removal and storage fees, 25% of the fees established by
the municipal corporation.
   (G)   Any storage facility that accepts towed vehicles shall conspicuously
post a notice at the entrance to the storage facility that states the
limitation on fees established under division (F) above.
(R.C. § 4513.68)
§ 70.21 ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING STATIONS.
   The rates for the two electric vehicle charging stations shall be set at $0.
The city reserves the right to modify the rates at any times.
(Ord. 21-22, passed 3-28-2022)
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.35 TRAFFIC-CONTROL.
   In order to avoid those hazards incident to public travel and to protect the
members of the general public while in the use of streets and highways, the
City Manager is authorized and directed to establish and mark traffic-control
areas as provided in the following divisions.
   (A)   Traffic-control signals. The City Manager shall establish and
designate traffic-control signal intersections, at which intersections shall be
maintained traffic-control signals to regulate traffic. The City Manager shall
have all necessary authority to install at such locations any lawful traffic-
control signal when, in his or her discretion, it is necessary to expedite
travel and promote public safety.
   (B)   One-way traffic. The City Manager shall determine and designate
streets, parts of streets or specific lanes thereon upon which vehicular
traffic shall proceed in one direction only and shall place and maintain
appropriate markings, signs, barriers or other devices to give notice thereof.
The City Manager may erect signs temporarily designating lanes to be used by
traffic moving in a particular direction, regardless of the center line of the
roadway.
   (C)   Stop and yield right-of-way intersections. The City Manager shall
establish and designate stop intersections and yield right-of-way
intersections, at which intersections shall be maintained the appropriate
traffic-control devices to regulate traffic and promote public safety. The City
Manager shall have all necessary authority to erect, or cause to be erected,
appropriate and legible signs or markers, upon which shall be displayed the
word “stop” at all intersections or the words “yield right-of-way” at all
intersections designated by City Manager as yield right-of-way intersections.
   (D)   Turns at intersections. The City Manager shall place markers, buttons
or signs within or adjacent to intersections indicating the course to be
traveled by vehicles turning at such intersections or preventing turns at such
intersections.
   (E)   Through routes. The City Manager shall designate certain routes which
shall be designated as through routes and shall be adequately signed when said
designated routes contribute to accelerate the flow of travel and promote
public safety.
   (F)   Through trucks. The City Manager shall designate and appropriately
mark certain streets over which no person shall drive any through truck. Such
designation shall be made only upon the basis of traffic survey determining
that such street is not of adequate width, structure or design so as to
accommodate such vehicle with safety.
   (G)   Pedestrian crosswalks. The City Manager shall establish and designate
by appropriate devices, marks or lines upon the surface of the roadway;
crosswalks at intersections where, in his or her opinion, there is particular
danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway; and at such other places as he or
she may deem necessary in the interests of public safety.
   (H)   Pedestrian safety zones. The City Manager shall establish safety zones
of such kind and character and at such places as he or she may deem necessary
for the protection of pedestrians.
   (I)   Bus unloading zones. The City Manager shall mark, or cause to be
marked, by appropriate sign or other device, all areas where passengers are
loaded or unloaded in the operation of public and school bus service for the
protection of passengers and pedestrians.
   (J)   Business loading zones. The City Manager shall establish zones for
loading and unloading of passengers or merchandise, or both, when, in his or
her judgment, the operations of business in the area justify and traffic
conditions permit.
   (K)   No parking zones. To promote safety on the streets, to expedite the
flow of traffic and to regulate parking on the streets, the City Manager may
designate areas as “no parking zones” or “limited parking zones” and prescribe
time limitations for parking or prohibit parking upon the streets, alleys and
highways of the city. An appropriate sign shall mark the boundaries of such
zones.
   (L)   Individual parking spaces. The City Manager shall designate and mark
off individual parking spaces at points or places to be approved by resolution
of the City Council in certain sections of the downtown area and outlying
districts, such parking spaces to be established along the curb of streets in
such sections and to be approximately 23 feet in length alongside curbs. At
each place where individual parking spaces are so marked off, each vehicle
shall be parked entirely within an individual parking space.
   (M)   Traffic lanes; overtaking and passing zones.
      (1)   The City Manager shall:
         (a)   Mark lanes for traffic on street pavements at such places as he
may deem advisable in the interest of public safety; and
         (b)   Determine those portions of any street where overtaking and
passing other traffic or driving to the left of center, or offset center, or
center line of the street or roadway would be especially hazardous, and may, by
appropriate signs or markings on the street or roadway, indicate the beginning
and end of such zones.
      (2)   Such zones shall be so designated in the following manner, to wit:
an auxiliary yellow line placed parallel and to the right of the normal center
line or offset center line.
(Prior Code, § 7.01.09)
§ 70.36 OBEDIENCE REQUIRED TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNALS AND SIGNS.
   (A)   (1)   No pedestrian or driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
instructions of any traffic- control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code, unless at the time otherwise directed by a
police officer.
      (2)   No provision of this traffic code for which signs are required
shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the
alleged violation, an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently
legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular
section of this traffic code does not state that signs are required, that
section shall be effective even though no signs are erected or in place.
(R.C. § 4511.12(A))
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C) below, any operator of a
commercial motor vehicle, upon approaching a scale location established for the
purpose of determining the weight of the vehicle and its load, shall comply
with any traffic-control device or the order of a peace officer directing the
vehicle to proceed to be weighed or otherwise inspected.
      (2)   Any operator of a commercial motor vehicle, upon bypassing a scale
location in accordance with division (C) below, shall comply with an order of a
peace officer to stop the vehicle to verify the use and operation of an
electronic clearance device.
   (C)   Any operator of a commercial motor vehicle that is equipped with an
electronic clearance device authorized by the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol under R.C. § 4549.081 may bypass a scale location, regardless of
the instruction of a traffic-control device to enter the scale facility, if
either of the following apply:
      (1)   The in-cab transponder displays a green light or other affirmative
visual signal and also sounds an affirmative audible signal; and
      (2)   Any other criterion established by the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol is met.
   (D)   Any peace officer may order the operator of a commercial motor vehicle
that bypasses a scale location to stop the vehicle to verify the use and
operation of an electronic clearance device.
   (E)   As used in this section, COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE means any
combination of vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating or an actual gross
vehicle weight of more than 10,000 pounds if the vehicle is used in interstate
or intrastate commerce to transport property and also means any vehicle that is
transporting hazardous materials for which placarding is required pursuant to
49 C.F.R. parts 100 through 180.
(R.C. § 4511.121(A) - (C), (E))
   (F)   No person shall use an electronic clearance device if the device or
its use is not in compliance with rules of the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol.
(R.C. § 4549.081(B))
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) above is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
         (a)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates division (A) above is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
         (b)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses,
whoever violates division (A) above is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
         (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.12(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) above is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
         (a)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (B) above or any
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, whoever violates
division (B) above is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
         (b)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of division (B)
above or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, whoever
violates division (B) above is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
         (c)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.121(D))
      (3)   Whoever violates division (F) above is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the third degree on
each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.081(C)) (Prior Code, § 7.01.10)
Statutory reference:
   Placing traffic-control devices on state highways, permission required, see
R.C. § 4511.10
   Traffic-control devices to conform to the state manual and specifications,
see R.C. § 4511.11
   Uniform system of traffic-control devices, see R.C. § 4511.09
§ 70.37 INTERPRETATION OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting
different illuminated colored lights, or controlled with illuminated arrows,
the following colors only shall be used and the terms and lights shall indicate
and apply to operators of vehicles, streetcars and trackless trolleys, and
pedestrians as follows:
      (1)   Circular green alone or “go” signal.
         (a)   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked crosswalk unless directed otherwise by a
pedestrian signal or a traffic-control device.
         (b)   All other traffic facing the signal except as provided under §
72.018 may proceed straight through or turn right or left, unless a sign at
such place prohibits such turn. But such traffic shall yield the right-of-way
to vehicles, streetcars and trackless trolleys lawfully within the intersection
and to pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk at the time such signal is
exhibited.
      (2)   Circular yellow alone or “caution” when shown following the green
or “go” signal.
         (a)   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway.
         (b)   All other traffic facing the signal is warned that the red or
“stop” signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter, and that pedestrians
proceeding in accordance with the traffic-control signals shall have the right-
of-way.
      (3)   Circular red alone or “stop” signal.
         (a)   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway.
         (b)   All other traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering
the intersection and shall remain standing until authorized to proceed by a
traffic-control device.
      (4)   Green arrow signal or a traffic-control device authorizing turn
with red or “stop” signal.
         (a)   No pedestrian facing such signal or device shall enter the
roadway.
         (b)   All other traffic facing such signal or device may cautiously
enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by the green arrow
or device, and shall yield the right-of- way to pedestrians lawfully within a
crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (5)   Green arrow signal alone.
         (a)   Pedestrians facing a vertical green arrow signal may proceed
across the roadway within any marked or unmarked cross-walk unless directed
otherwise by a pedestrian signal or a traffic-control device.
         (b)   All other traffic facing such signal may enter the intersection
to make the movement indicated by such arrow, but shall yield the right-of-way
to pedestrians lawfully within a cross-walk and to other traffic lawfully using
the intersection.
      (6)   Simultaneous display. Where more than one traffic-control signal or
device is shown simultaneously, vehicular traffic shall comply with the
traffic-control signal or device applicable to the traffic lane and direction
in which it is proceeding or about to proceed.
      (7)   Signal change while in intersection. Any traffic lawfully upon the
roadway within an intersection at the time a traffic-control signal changes may
continue cautiously through the intersection with due regard for the safety and
rights of all persons using the roadway.
   (B)   Whenever it is necessary to indicate and control the direction of
travel in a traffic lane or lanes of a street or highway for the purpose of
reversing the direction of traffic in the lane, rectangular signal units shall
be placed over each reversible lane and shall apply to operators of vehicles
and trackless trolleys as follows.
      (1)   Rectangular signal unit with downward pointing illuminated green
arrow. Traffic facing such signal may travel in the lane over which the green
arrow is shown.
      (2)   Rectangular signal unit with an illuminated red “x”. Traffic facing
such signal shall not enter or travel in any lane over which the “x” signal is
shown.
(Prior Code, § 7.01.11)
§ 70.38 PEDESTRIAN WALK OR WAIT SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian-control signals exhibiting the words “walk” or
“don’t walk”, or the symbol of a walking person or an upraised palm are in
place, these signals shall indicate the following instructions.
   (A)   A steady walking person signal indication, which symbolizes “walk”,
means that a pedestrian facing the signal indication is permitted to start to
cross the roadway in the direction of the signal indication, possibly in
conflict with turning vehicles. The pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the walking person
signal indication is first shown.
   (B)   A flashing upraised hand signal indication, which symbolizes “don’t
walk”, means that a pedestrian shall not start to cross the roadway in the
direction of the signal indication, but that any pedestrian who has already
started to cross on a steady walking person signal indication shall proceed to
the far side of the traveled way of the street or highway, unless otherwise
directed by a traffic-control device to proceed only to the median of a divided
highway or only to some other island or pedestrian refuge area.
   (C)   A steady upraised hand signal indication means that a pedestrian shall
not enter the roadway in the direction of the signal indication.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to invalidate the continued
use of pedestrian control signals utilizing the word “wait” if those signals
were installed prior to March 28, 1985.
   (E)   A flashing walking person signal indication has no meaning and shall
not be used.
(R.C. § 4511.14) (Prior Code, § 7.01.12)
§ 70.39 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   Highway traffic signal indications for vehicles and pedestrians shall have
the following meanings:
   (A)   Steady green signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal indication
is permitted to proceed straight through or turn right or left or make a u-turn
movement except as such movement is modified by a lane-use sign, turn
prohibition sign, lane marking, roadway design, separate turn signal indication
or other traffic-control device. Such vehicular traffic, including vehicles
turning right or left or making a u-turn movement, shall yield the right-of-way
to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk; and
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
movement to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching
from the opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard
during the time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the
intersection.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal indication, displayed
alone or in combination with another signal indication, is permitted to
cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by such
arrow, or such other movement as is permitted by other indications displayed at
the same time. Such vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left
or making a u-turn movement, shall yield the right-of-way to both of the
following:
         (a)   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk; and
         (b)   Other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (3)   (a)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication,
as provided in R.C. § 4511.14, pedestrians facing a circular green signal
indication are permitted to proceed across the roadway within any marked or
unmarked associated crosswalk. The pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles lawfully within the intersection or so close as to create an immediate
hazard at the time that the green signal indication is first displayed.
         (b)   Pedestrians facing a green arrow signal indication, unless
otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or other traffic-control
device, shall not cross the roadway.
   (B)   Steady yellow signal indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular yellow signal indication
is thereby warned that the related green movement or the related flashing arrow
movement is being terminated or that a steady red signal indication will be
exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter the
intersection. The provisions governing vehicular operation under the movement
being terminated shall continue to apply while the steady circular yellow
signal indication is displayed.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow arrow signal indication is
thereby warned that the related green arrow movement or the related flashing
arrow movement is being terminated. The provisions governing vehicular
operation under the movement being terminated shall continue to apply while the
steady yellow arrow signal indication is displayed.
      (3)   Pedestrians facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow signal
indication, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication as
provided in R.C. § 4511.14 or other traffic-control device, shall not start to
cross the roadway.
   (C)   Steady red signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular red signal
indication, unless entering the intersection to make another movement permitted
by another signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line; but if
there is no stop line, traffic shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the
near side of the intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, then before
entering the intersection; and shall remain stopped until a signal indication
to proceed is displayed except as provided in this divisions (C)(1), and
divisions (C)(2) and (C)(3) below.
         (b)   Except when a traffic-control device is in place prohibiting a
turn on red or a steady red arrow signal indication is displayed, vehicular
traffic facing a steady circular red signal indication is permitted, after
stopping, to enter the intersection to turn right, or to turn left from a one-
way street into a one-way street. The right to proceed with the turn shall be
subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop at a stop
sign.
      (2)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow signal indication
shall not enter the intersection to make the movement indicated by the arrow
and, unless entering the intersection to make another movement permitted by
another signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line; but if
there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, then before entering the
intersection; and shall remain stopped until a signal indication or other
traffic-control device permitting the movement indicated by such red arrow is
displayed.
         (b)   When a traffic-control device is in place permitting a turn on a
steady red arrow signal indication, vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow
indication is permitted, after stopping, to enter the intersection to turn
right or to turn left from a one-way street into a one-way street. The right to
proceed with the turn shall be limited to the direction indicated by the arrow
and shall be subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop
at a stop sign.
      (3)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication as
provided in R.C. § 4511.14 or other traffic-control device, pedestrians facing
a steady circular red or steady red arrow signal indication shall not enter the
roadway.
      (4)   Local authorities by ordinance, or the Director of Transportation
on state highways, may prohibit a right or a left turn against a steady red
signal at any intersection, which shall be effective when signs giving notice
thereof are posted at the intersection.
   (D)   Flashing green signal indication. A flashing green signal indication
has no meaning and shall not be used.
   (E)   Flashing yellow signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing
a flashing circular yellow signal indication, is permitted to cautiously enter
the intersection to proceed straight through or turn right or left or make a u-
turn movement except as such movement is modified by lane-use signs, turn
prohibition signs, lane markings, roadway design, separate turn signal
indications or other traffic-control devices. Such vehicular traffic, including
vehicles turning right or left or making a u-turn movement, shall yield the
right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk; and
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the
time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the intersection.
      (2)   (a)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing
a flashing yellow arrow signal indication, displayed alone or in combination
with another signal indication, is permitted to cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by such arrow, or other such
movement as is permitted by other signal indications displayed at the same
time.
         (b)   Such vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left
or making a u-turn, shall yield the right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk; and
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (c)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the
time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the intersection.
      (3)   Pedestrians facing any flashing yellow signal indication at an
intersection, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or
other traffic-control device, are permitted to proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk. Pedestrians shall yield the
right- of-way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing yellow signal indication is first displayed.
      (4)   When a flashing circular yellow signal indication is displayed as a
beacon to supplement another traffic-control device, road users are notified
that there is a need to pay additional attention to the message contained
thereon or that the regulatory or warning requirements of the other traffic-
control device, which might not be applicable at all times, are currently
applicable.
   (F)   Flashing red signal indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing a
flashing circular red signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line; but if there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near
side of the intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection. The right to proceed
shall be subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop at a
stop sign.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing any flashing red signal indication at an
intersection, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or
other traffic-control device, are permitted to proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk. Pedestrians shall yield the
right- of-way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing red signal indication is first displayed.
      (3)   When a flashing circular red signal indication is displayed as a
beacon to supplement another traffic-control device, road users are notified
that there is a need to pay additional attention to the message contained
thereon or that the regulatory requirements of the other traffic-control
device, which might not be applicable at all times, are currently applicable.
Use of this signal indication shall be limited to supplementing stop, do not
enter or wrong way signs, and to applications where compliance with the
supplemented traffic-control device requires a stop at a designated point.
   (G)   In the event an official traffic-control signal is erected and
maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
section shall be applicable except as to those provisions which by their nature
can have no application. Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking
on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of
any such sign or marking the stop shall be made at the signal.
   (H)   This section does not apply at railroad grade-crossings. Conduct of
drivers of vehicles approaching railroad grade crossings shall be governed by
R.C. §§ 4511.61 and 4511.62.
(R.C. § 4511.13) (Prior Code, § 7.01.13)
§ 70.40 DISPLAY OF UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of
any highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to
be, is an imitation of or resembles a traffic- control device or railroad sign
or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or hides from
view or interferes with the effectiveness of any traffic-control device or any
railroad sign or signal, and no person shall place or maintain, nor shall any
public authority permit, upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing
thereon any commercial advertising. This section does not prohibit either the
erection upon private property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful
directional information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for traffic-
control devices, or the erection upon private property of traffic-control
devices by the owner of real property in accordance with R.C. §§ 4511.211 and
4511.432.
      (2)   Every prohibited sign, signal, marking or device is a public
nuisance, and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway may remove the
same or cause it to be removed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.16) (Prior Code, § 7.01.14)
§ 70.41 DEFACING SIGN OR SIGNAL.
   (A)   No person, without lawful authority, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly move, deface, damage, destroy or otherwise improperly
tamper with any traffic-control device, any railroad sign or signal, or any
inscription, shield or insignia on the device, sign or signal, or any part of
the device, sign or signal;
      (2)   Knowingly drive upon or over any freshly applied pavement marking
material on the surface of a roadway while the marking material is in an
undried condition, and is marked by flags, markers, signs or other devices
intended to protect it; and/or
      (3)   Knowingly move, damage, destroy or otherwise improperly tamper with
a manhole cover.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A)(1) or (A)(3) above is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
If a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(3) above creates a risk of physical
harm to any person, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(3) above causes serious
physical harm to property that is owned, leased or controlled by a state or
local authority, the offender is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A)(2) above is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to
one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates division (A)
(2) above is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year
of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates division (A)(2)
above is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.17) (Prior Code, § 7.01.15)
§ 70.42 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CODE.
   It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to
perform any act required by this traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 7.01.16)
§ 70.43 SIGNALS OVER REVERSIBLE LANES.
   The meanings of lane-use control signal indications are as follows:
   (A)   A steady downward green arrow. A road user is permitted to drive in
the lane over which the arrow signal indication is located.
   (B)   A steady yellow “X”. A road user is to prepare to vacate the lane over
which the signal indication is located because a lane control change is being
made to a steady red “X” signal indication.
   (C)   A steady white two-way left-turn arrow. A road user is permitted to
use a lane over which the signal indication is located for a left turn, but not
for through travel, with the understanding that common use of the lane by
oncoming road users for left turns also is permitted.
   (D)   A steady white one-way left-turn arrow. A road user is permitted to
use a lane over which the signal indication is located for a left turn, without
opposing turns in the same lane, but not for through travel.
   (E)   A steady red “X”. A road user is not permitted to use the lane over
which the signal indication is located and that this signal indication shall
modify accordingly the meaning of other traffic-controls present.
(R.C. § 4511.131)
§ 70.44 AMBIGUOUS OR NON-WORKING TRAFFIC SIGNALS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle who approaches an intersection where traffic
is controlled by traffic-control signals shall do all of the following if the
signal facing the driver exhibits no colored lights or colored lighted arrows,
exhibits a combination of such lights or arrows that fails to clearly indicate
the assignment of right-of-way, or, if the vehicle is a bicycle or an electric
bicycle, the signals are otherwise malfunctioning due to the failure of a
vehicle detector to detect the presence of the bicycle or electric bicycle:
      (1)   Stop at a clearly marked stop line, but, if none, stop before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or, if none, stop
before entering the intersection;
      (2)   Yield the right-of-way to all vehicles in the intersection or
approaching on an intersecting road, if the vehicles will constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection or junction of roadways; and
      (3)   Exercise ordinary care while proceeding through the intersection.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.132)
§ 70.45 UNAUTHORIZED POSSESSION OR SALE OF DEVICES.
   (A)   As used in this section, TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE means any sign,
traffic-control signal or other device conforming to and placed or erected in
accordance with the manual adopted under R.C. § 4511.09 by authority of a
public body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic, including signs denoting the names of streets and
highways, but does not mean any pavement marking.
   (B)   No individual shall buy or otherwise possess, or sell, a traffic-
control device, except when one of the following applies:
      (1)   In the course of the individual’s employment by the state or a
local authority for the express or implied purpose of manufacturing, providing,
erecting, moving or removing such a traffic-control device;
      (2)   In the course of the individual’s employment by any manufacturer of
traffic-control devices other than a state or local authority;
      (3)   For the purpose of demonstrating the design and function of a
traffic-control device to state or local officials;
      (4)   When the traffic-control device has been purchased from the state
or a local authority at a sale of property that is no longer needed or is unfit
for use; or
      (5)   When the traffic-control device has been properly purchased from a
manufacturer for use on private property and the person possessing the device
has a sales receipt for the device or other acknowledgment of sale issued by
the manufacturer.
   (C)   This section does not preclude, and shall not be construed as
precluding, prosecution for theft in violation of R.C. § 2913.02, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or for receiving stolen property
in violation of R.C. § 2913.51, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.18)
§ 70.46 SIGNAL PREEMPTION DEVICES; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall possess a portable signal preemption device.
      (2)   No person shall use a portable signal preemption device to affect
the operation of a traffic-control device.
   (B)   Division (A)(1) above does not apply to any of the following persons
and division (A)(2) above does not apply to any of the following persons when
responding to an emergency call:
      (1)   A peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 109.71(A)(1), (A)(12), (A)
(14) or (A)(19);
      (2)   A state highway patrol officer; and/or
      (3)   A person while occupying a public safety vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 4511.01(E)(1), (E)(3) or (E)(4).
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) above is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree. Whoever violates division (A)(2) above is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   As used in this section, PORTABLE SIGNAL PREEMPTION DEVICE means a
device that, if activated by a person, is capable of changing a traffic-control
signal to green out of sequence.
(R.C. § 4511.031)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Whoever violates any provision of this traffic code for
which no penalty otherwise is provided in the section violated is guilty of one
of the following:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(2) or (A)(3) below, a
minor misdemeanor;
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; and/or
      (3)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more predicate motor vehicle or
traffic offenses, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.99)
   (B)   Violations committed while distracted.
      (1)   As used in this section and each section referenced in division (B)
(2) below, all of the following apply:
         (a)   DISTRACTED means doing either of the following while operating a
vehicle:
            1.   Using a handheld electronic wireless communications device, as
defined in R.C. § 4511.204, except when utilizing any of the following:
               a.   The device’s speakerphone function;
               b.   A wireless technology standard for exchanging data over
short distances;
               c.   A “voice-operated or hands-free” device that allows the
person to use the electronic wireless communications device without the use of
either hand except to activate, deactivate or initiate a feature or function;
and/or
               d.   Any device that is physically or electronically integrated
into the motor vehicle.
            2.   Engaging in any activity that is not necessary to the
operation of a vehicle and impairs, or reasonably would be expected to impair,
the ability of the operator to drive the vehicle safely.
         (b)   DISTRACTED does not include operating a motor vehicle while
wearing an earphone or earplug over or in both ears at the same time. A person
who so wears earphones or earplugs may be charged with a violation of R.C. §
4511.84, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
         (c)   DISTRACTED does not include conducting any activity while
operating a utility service vehicle or a vehicle for or on behalf of a utility,
provided that the driver of the vehicle is acting in response to an emergency,
power outage, or a circumstance affecting the health or safety of individuals.
As used in this division (B)(1)(c):
            UTILITY means an entity specified in R.C. § 4905.03(A), (C), (D),
(E) or (G).
            UTILITY SERVICE VEHICLE means a vehicle owned or operated by a
utility.
      (2)   If an offender violates R.C. §§ 4511.03, 4511.051, 4511.12,
4511.121, 4511.132, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.213, 4511.22, 4511.23, 4511.25,
4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33,
4511.34, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40, 4511.41,
4511.42, 4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.451, 4511.46, 4511.47,
4511.54, 4511.55, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59, 4511.60, 4511.61, 4511.64,
4511.71, 4511.711, 4511.712, 4511.713, 4511.72 or 4511.73, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, while distracted and the distracting activity
is a contributing factor to the commission of the violation, the offender is
subject to the applicable penalty for the violation and, notwithstanding R.C. §
2929.28, is subject to an additional fine of not more than $100 as follows:
         (a)   1.   Subject to Traffic Rule 13, if a law enforcement officer
issues an offender a ticket, citation or summons for a violation of any of the
aforementioned sections of the Ohio Revised Code, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that indicates that the offender was distracted
while committing the violation and that the distracting activity was a
contributing factor to the commission of the violation, the offender may enter
a written plea of guilty and waive the offender’s right to contest the ticket,
citation or summons in a trial provided that the offender pays the total amount
of the fine established for the violation and pays the additional fine of $100.
            2.   In lieu of payment of the additional fine of $100, the
offender instead may elect to attend a distracted driving safety course, the
duration and contents of which shall be established by the State Director of
Public Safety. If the offender attends and successfully completes the course,
the offender shall be issued written evidence that the offender successfully
completed the course. The offender shall be required to pay the total amount of
the fine established for the violation, but shall not be required to pay the
additional fine of $100, so long as the offender submits to the court both the
offender’s payment in full and such written evidence.
         (b)   1.   If the offender appears in person to contest the ticket,
citation or summons in a trial and the offender pleads guilty to or is
convicted of the violation, the court, in addition to all other penalties
provided by law, may impose the applicable penalty for the violation and may
impose the additional fine of not more than $100.
            2.   If the court imposes upon the offender the applicable penalty
for the violation and an additional fine of not more than $100, the court shall
inform the offender that, in lieu of payment of the additional fine of not more
than $100, the offender instead may elect to attend the distracted driving
safety course described in division (B)(2)(a) above. If the offender elects the
course option and attends and successfully completes the course, the offender
shall be issued written evidence that the offender successfully completed the
course. The offender shall be required to pay the total amount of the fine
established for the violation, but shall not be required to pay the additional
fine of not more than $100, so long as the offender submits to the court the
offender’s payment and such written evidence.
(R.C. § 4511.991)
   (C)   Sentencing. Whoever is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor
or minor misdemeanor shall be sentenced in accordance with §
130.99.
Cross-reference:
   Imposing sentence for misdemeanor, see §
130.18
   Multiple sentences, see §
130.19
Statutory reference:
   Reimbursement for costs of confinement, see R.C. §§ 2929.36 et seq.
CHAPTER 71: LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
Motor Vehicle Licensing
   
71.01   Improper use of noncommercial motor vehicle
   
71.02   Operating motor vehicle ordered immobilized; forfeiture
   
71.03   Display of certificate of registration
Driver’s Licenses
   
71.15   Permitting minor to operate vehicle prohibited; temporary instruction
permit; probationary license
   
71.16   Restriction against owner lending vehicle for use of another
   
71.17   Suspension of driver’s licenses; license suspended by court of record
   
71.18   Prohibition against false statements
   
71.19   Driving under suspension or in violation of license restriction
   
71.20   Operating motor vehicle or motorcycle without valid license
   
71.21   Driving under OVI suspension
   
71.22   Driving under financial responsibility law suspension or cancellation;
driving under a nonpayment of judgment suspension
   
71.23   Failure to reinstate license
Commercial Driver’s Licenses
   
71.35   Definitions
   
71.36   Use of actual gross weight in lieu of rating
   
71.37   Prohibited acts
   
71.38   Prerequisites to operation of commercial motor vehicle
   
71.39   Physical qualification to operate commercial motor vehicles
   
71.40   Criminal offenses
   
71.41   Application of federal regulations
   
71.42   Employment of drivers of commercial vehicles
 
   
71.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Commercial driver’s licenses, see R.C. Chapter 4506
   Driver’s licenses, see R.C. Chapter 4507
   Motor vehicle licensing, see R.C. Chapter 4504
   Municipal motor vehicle license tax, see R.C. § 4504.06
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
   Proof of financial responsibility required; civil penalties; peace officers
as agents of Registrar of Motor Vehicles; procedures and rules, see R.C. §§
4509.101 et seq.
   Suspension and revocation of driver’s licenses, see R.C. Chapter 4510
   Suspension of driver’s licenses; municipal power to suspend for a period not
to exceed time permitted or required by state law, see R.C. § 4510.05
MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSING
§ 71.01 IMPROPER USE OF NONCOMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall use a motor vehicle registered as a noncommercial
motor vehicle for other than the purposes set forth in R.C. § 4501.01.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 4503.05)
§ 71.02 OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE ORDERED IMMOBILIZED; FORFEITURE.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or permit the operation of a
motor vehicle upon any public or private property used by the public for
vehicular travel or parking knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that
the motor vehicle has been ordered immobilized pursuant to an immobilization
order issued under R.C. § 4503.233.
   (B)   A motor vehicle that is operated by a person during a violation of
division (A) above shall be criminally forfeited to the state in accordance
with the procedures contained in R.C. § 4503.234.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) above is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
second degree.
(R.C. § 4503.236)
§ 71.03 DISPLAY OF CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   (1)   The operator of a “commercial car”, as defined in R.C. §
4501.01, when the commercial car is required to be registered under state law,
shall, when operating the commercial car, trailer or semitrailer on the
streets, roads or highways of this municipality display inside or on the
vehicle the certificate of registration for the commercial car, trailer or
semitrailer provided for in R.C. § 4503.19, or shall carry the certificate on
the operator’s person and display it upon the demand of any peace officer.
      (2)   Every person operating a commercial car, trailer or semitrailer
required to be registered under state law shall permit the inspection of the
certificate of registration upon demand of any peace officer.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) above is guilty of a commercial car
certificate of registration violation, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.18)
DRIVER’S LICENSES
§ 71.15 PERMITTING MINOR TO OPERATE VEHICLE PROHIBITED; TEMPORARY INSTRUCTION
PERMIT; PROBATIONARY LICENSE.
   (A)   No person shall cause or knowingly permit any minor to drive a motor
vehicle upon a highway as an operator, unless the minor has first obtained a
license or permit to drive a motor vehicle under R.C. Chapter 4507.
(R.C. § 4507.31(A))
   (B)   (1)   No holder of a temporary instruction permit issued under R.C. §
4507.05(A) shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking
in violation of the conditions established under R.C. § 4507.05(A).
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (B)(2)(b) below, no holder of
a temporary instruction permit that is issued under R.C. § 4507.05(A) and that
is issued on or after July 1, 1998, and who has not attained the age of 18
years, shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or private
property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking between
the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m.
         (b)   The holder of a temporary instruction permit issued under R.C. §
4507.05(A) on or after July 1, 1998, who has not attained the age of 18 years,
may operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or private property
used by the public for purposed of vehicular travel or parking between the
hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m. if, at the time of such operation, the holder
is accompanied by the holder’s parent, guardian, or custodian, and the parent,
guardian or custodian holds a current valid driver’s or commercial driver’s
license issued by this state, is actually occupying a seat beside the permit
holder, and does not have a prohibited concentration of alcohol in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath or urine as provided in R.C. § 4511.19(A).
(R.C. § 4507.05(F))
   (C)   (1)   (a)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held
the license for less than 12 months shall operate a motor vehicle upon a
highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m. unless
the holder is accompanied by the holder’s parent or guardian.
         (b)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held the
license for 12 months or longer shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. unless the
holder is accompanied by the holder’s parent or guardian.
      (2)   (a)   Subject to division (E)(1) below, division (C)(1)(a) above
does not apply to the holder of a probationary driver’s license who is doing
either of the following:
            1.   Traveling to or from work between the hours of midnight and 6:
00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession
written documentation from the holder’s employer;
            2.   Traveling to or from an official function sponsored by the
school the holder attends between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m., provided
that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession written documentation
from an appropriate official of the school; and
            3.   Traveling to or from an official religious event between the
hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s
immediate possession written documentation from an appropriate official
affiliated with the event.
         (b)   Division (C)(1)(b) above does not apply to the holder of a
probationary driver’s license who is doing either of the following:
            1.   Traveling to or from work between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and
5:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession
written documentation from the holder’s employer;
            2.   Traveling to or from an official function sponsored by the
school the holder attends between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m.,
provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession written
documentation from an appropriate official of the school; and
            3.   Traveling to or from an official religious event between the
hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s
immediate possession written documentation from an appropriate official
affiliated with the event.
      (3)   An employer, school official or official affiliated with a
religious event is not liable in damages in a civil action for any injury,
death or loss to person or property that allegedly arises from, or is related
to, the fact that the employer, school official or official affiliated with a
religious event provided the holder of a probationary driver’s license with the
written documentation described in division (C)(2) above. The Registrar of
Motor Vehicles shall make available at no cost a form to serve as the written
documentation described in division (C)(2) above, and employers, school
officials, officials affiliated with religious events and holders of
probationary driver’s licenses may utilize that form or may choose to utilize
any other written documentation to meet the requirements of that division.
      (4)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held the
license for less than 12 months shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking with more than one person who is not a family member
occupying the vehicle unless the probationary license holder is accompanied by
the probationary license holder’s parent, guardian or custodian.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a violation of division (C)(1)(a) or
(C)(1)(b) above if, at the time of the violation, an emergency existed that
required the holder of the probationary driver’s license to operate a motor
vehicle in violation of division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) above or the holder was
an emancipated minor.
   (E)   (1)   If a person is issued a probationary driver’s license prior to
attaining the age of 17 years and the person pleads guilty to, is convicted of
or is adjudicated in juvenile court of having committed a moving violation
during the six-month period commencing on the date on which the person is
issued the probationary driver’s license, the court with jurisdiction over the
violation may order that the holder must be accompanied by the holder’s parent
or guardian whenever the holder is operating a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking for a period not to exceed six months or the date the holder
attains the age of 17 years, whichever occurs first.
      (2)   Any person who is subject to the operating restrictions established
under division (E)(1) above as a result of a first moving violation may
petition the court for driving privileges without being accompanied by the
holder’s parent or guardian during the period of time determined by the court
under that division. In granting the driving privileges, the court shall
specify the purposes of the privileges and shall issue the person appropriate
forms setting forth the privileges granted. If a person is convicted of, pleads
guilty to or is adjudicated in juvenile court of having committed a second or
subsequent moving violation, the court with jurisdiction over the violation may
terminate any driving privileges previously granted under this division.
      (3)   No person shall violate any operating restriction imposed under
division (E)(1) or (E)(2) above.
   (F)   No holder of a probationary license shall operate a motor vehicle upon
a highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking unless the total number of occupants of the vehicle
does not exceed the total number of occupant restraining devices originally
installed in the motor vehicle by its manufacturer, and each occupant of the
vehicle is wearing all of the available elements of a properly adjusted
occupant restraining device.
   (G)   A restricted license may be issued to a person who is 14 or 15 years
of age under proof of hardship satisfactory to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles.
   (H)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether each occupant of the motor vehicle is wearing all of the
available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device as
required by division (F) above, or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket,
citation or summons if that requirement has been or is being violated, or for
causing the arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for a violation
of that requirement.
   (I)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) above has
been or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket,
citation or summons for such a violation or for causing the arrest or
commencing a prosecution of a person for such a violation.
   (J)   As used in this section:
      FAMILY MEMBER. A family member of a probationary license holder includes
any of the following:
         (a)   A spouse;
         (b)   A child or stepchild;
         (c)   A parent, stepparent, grandparent or parent-in-law;
         (d)   An aunt or uncle;
         (e)   A sibling, whether of the whole or half blood or by adoption; a
brother-in- law; or a sister-in-law;
         (f)   A son or daughter of the probationary license holder’s
stepparent if the stepparent has not adopted the probationary license holder;
and
         (g)   An eligible adult, as defined in R.C. § 4507.05.
      MOVING VIOLATION. Means any violation of any statute or ordinance that
regulates the operation of vehicles on the highways or streets. The term does
not include a violation of R.C. § 4513.263 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or a violation of any statute or ordinance regulating
pedestrians or the parking of vehicles, vehicle size or load limitations,
vehicle fitness requirements or vehicle registration.
      OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4513.263.
(R.C. § 4507.071(B) - (I))
   (K)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) above is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.31(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates divisions (B), (C)(1), (C)(4), (E)(3) or (F) above
is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. §§ 4507.05(I), 4507.071(J))
§ 71.16 RESTRICTION AGAINST OWNER LENDING VEHICLE FOR USE OF ANOTHER.
   (A)   No person shall permit a motor vehicle owned by the person or under
the person’s control to be driven by another if any of the following apply.
      (1)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person does not have a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit or valid nonresident driving privileges.
      (2)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privileges have been suspended or canceled under R.C. Chapter 4510 or
any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
      (3)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s act of driving the motor vehicle would violate any prohibition
contained in R.C. Chapter 4509.
      (4)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s act of driving would violate R.C. § 4511.19 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (5)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
vehicle is the subject of an immobilization waiver order issued under R.C. §
4503.235 and the other person is prohibited from operating the vehicle under
that order.
   (B)   Without limiting or precluding the consideration of any other evidence
in determining whether a violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4)
or (A)(5) above has occurred, it shall be prima facie evidence that the
offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the operator of the
motor vehicle owned by the offender or under the offender’s control is in a
category described in division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4) or (A)(5) above
if any of the following applies:
      (1)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(1), (A)(3) or (A)(5) above, the offender and the operator of the
motor vehicle reside in the same household and are related by consanguinity or
affinity.
      (2)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(2) above, the offender and the operator of the motor vehicle
reside in the same household, and the offender knows or has reasonable cause to
believe that the operator has been charged with or convicted of any violation
of law or ordinance, or has committed any other act or omission, that would or
could result in the suspension or cancellation of the operator’s license,
permit or privilege.
      (3)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(4) above, the offender and the operator of the motor vehicle
occupied the motor vehicle together at the time of the offense.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of wrongful entrustment of a
motor vehicle, and shall be punished as provided in divisions (C) to (H) of
this section.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) below, whoever violates
division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3) above is guilty of an unclassified
misdemeanor. When the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender
shall be sentenced pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   (a)   If, within three years of a violation of division (A)(1), (A)
(2), or (A)(3) above, the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been
convicted of two or more violations of division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3) above,
R.C. §§ 4511.203(A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3), or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
         (b)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) or (A)(5) above is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   For any violation of this section, in addition to the penalties
imposed under this Code or R.C. Chapter 2929, the court may impose a class
seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7), and, if
the vehicle involved in the offense is registered in the name of the offender,
the court may order one of the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3)(b) or (C)(3)(c)
below, the court may order, for 30 days, the immobilization of the vehicle
involved in the offense and the impoundment of that vehicle’s license plates.
If issued, the order shall be issued and enforced under R.C. § 4503.233.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one violation of this section, R.C. § 4511.203 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the court may order, for 60 days, the
immobilization of the vehicle involved in the offense and the impoundment of
that vehicle’s license plates. If issued, the order shall be issued and
enforced under R.C. § 4503.233.
         (c)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section, R.C. § 4511.203, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court may order the criminal
forfeiture to the state of the vehicle involved in the offense. If issued, the
order shall be issued and enforced under R.C. § 4503.234.
      (4)   If title to a motor vehicle that is subject to an order for
criminal forfeiture under division (C)(3)(c) above is assigned or transferred
and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, in addition to or independent of
any other penalty established by law, the court may fine the offender the value
of the vehicle as determined by publications of the National Automobile Dealers
Association. The proceeds from any fine imposed under this division shall be
distributed in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234(C)(2).
   (D)   If a court orders the criminal forfeiture of a vehicle under division
(C)(3)(a) or (C)(3)(b) above, the court shall not release the vehicle from the
immobilization before the termination of the period of immobilization ordered
unless the court is presented with current proof of financial responsibility
with respect to that vehicle.
   (E)   If a court orders the criminal forfeiture of a vehicle under division
(C)(3)(c) above, upon receipt of the order from the court, neither the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles nor any deputy registrar shall accept any
application for the registration or transfer of registration of any motor
vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the order. The period of denial
shall be five years after the date the order is issued, unless, during that
five-year period, the court with jurisdiction of the offense that resulted in
the order terminates the forfeiture and notifies the Registrar of the
termination. If the court terminates the forfeiture and notifies the Registrar,
the Registrar shall take all necessary measures to permit the person to
register a vehicle owned or leased by the person or to transfer the
registration of the vehicle.
   (F)   This section does not apply to motor vehicle rental dealers or motor
vehicle leasing dealers, as defined in R.C. § 4549.65.
   (G)   Evidence of a conviction of, plea of guilty to or adjudication as a
delinquent child for a violation of this section shall not be admissible as
evidence in any civil action that involves the offender or delinquent child who
is the subject of the conviction, plea or adjudication and that arises from the
wrongful entrustment of a motor vehicle.
   (H)   For purposes of this section, a vehicle is owned by a person if, at
the time of a violation of this section, the vehicle is registered in the
person’s name.
(R.C. § 4511.203)
§ 71.17 SUSPENSION OF DRIVER’S LICENSES; LICENSE SUSPENDED BY COURT OF RECORD.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 4510.07 or in any other
provision of the Ohio Revised Code, whenever an offender is convicted of or
pleads guilty to a violation of any provision of this code that is
substantially equivalent to a provision of the Ohio Revised Code, and a court
is permitted or required to suspend a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or permit for a violation of that provision, a court, in addition to
any other penalties authorized by law, may suspend the offender’s driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privileges for
the period of time the court determines appropriate, but the period of
suspension imposed for the violation of the provision of this code shall not
exceed the period of suspension that is permitted or required to be imposed for
the violation of the provision of the Ohio Revised Code to which the provision
of this code is substantially equivalent.
(R.C. § 4510.05)
   (B)   Whenever a person is found guilty under the laws of this state or any
ordinance of any political subdivision of this state, of operating a motor
vehicle in violation of any such law or ordinance relating to reckless
operation, the trial court of any court of record, in addition to or
independent of all other penalties provided by law, may impose a class five
suspension of the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02
(A)(5).
   (C)   Suspension of a commercial driver’s license under this section shall
be concurrent with any period of suspension disqualification under R.C. §§
3123.58 or 4506.16. No person who is disqualified for life from holding a
commercial driver’s license under R.C. § 4506.16 shall be issued a driver’s
license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period for which the commercial
driver’s license was suspended under this section, and no person whose
commercial driver’s license is suspended under this section shall be issued a
driver’s license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period of the suspension.
(R.C. § 4510.15)
§ 71.18 PROHIBITION AGAINST FALSE STATEMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement to any matter or
thing required by the provisions of this traffic code.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4507.36)
§ 71.19 DRIVING UNDER SUSPENSION OR IN VIOLATION OF LICENSE RESTRICTION.
   (A)   Driving under suspension or in violation of license restriction.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) below, division (B) below, §
71.22 and in R.C. §§ 4510.111 and 4510.16, no person whose driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege has
been suspended under any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, other than R.C.
Chapter 4509 or under any applicable law in any other jurisdiction in which the
person’s license or permit was issued shall operate any motor vehicle upon the
public roads and highways or upon any public or private property used by the
public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking within this municipality
during the period of suspension unless the person is granted limited driving
privileges and is operating the vehicle in accordance with the terms of the
limited driving privileges.
      (2)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking in this municipality in violation of any restriction of the person’s
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit imposed under R.C. §§ 4506.10
(D) or 4507.14.
      (3)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth and Social Security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) above may be admitted into evidence as
prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under suspension at the
time of the alleged violation of division (A)(1) above or the person operated a
motor vehicle in violation of a restriction at the time of the alleged
violation of division (A)(2) above. The person charged with a violation of
division (A)(1) or (A)(2) above may offer evidence to rebut this prima facie
evidence.
      (4)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) or (A)(2) above is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the first degree. The court may impose upon the offender a
class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
         (b)   1.   Except as provided in division (A)(4)(b)2. or (A)(4)(b)3.
above, the court, in addition to any other penalty that it imposes on the
offender and if the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if, within
three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to one violation of this section, R.C. §§ 4510.11, 4510.111 or
4510.16, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court, in
addition to or independent of any other sentence that it imposes upon the
offender, may order the immobilization of the vehicle involved in the offense
for 30 days and the impoundment of that vehicle’s license plates for 30 days in
accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
            2.   If the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to two violations of this section, or any combination of
two violations of this section, R.C. §§ 4510.11, 4510.111 or 4510.16, or of a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court, in addition to any
other sentence that it imposes on the offender, may order the immobilization of
the vehicle involved in the offense for 60 days and the impoundment of that
vehicle’s license plates for 60 days in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
            3.   If the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of this section, or any
combination of three or more violations of this section or R.C. §§ 4510.11,
4510.111 or 4510.16, or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the
court, in addition to any other sentence that it imposes on the offender, may
order the criminal forfeiture of the vehicle involved in the offense to the
state.
      (5)   Any order for immobilization and impoundment under this section
shall be issued and enforced under R.C. §§ 4503.233 and 4507.02, as applicable.
The court shall not release a vehicle from immobilization ordered under this
section unless the court is presented with current proof of financial
responsibility with respect to that vehicle.
      (6)   Any order of criminal forfeiture under this section shall be issued
and enforced under R.C. § 4503.234. Upon receipt of the copy of the order from
the court, neither the Registrar of Motor Vehicles nor a deputy registrar shall
accept any application for the registration or transfer of registration of any
motor vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the declaration of
forfeiture. The period of registration denial shall be five years after the
date of the order, unless, during that period, the court having jurisdiction of
the offense that led to the order terminates the forfeiture and notifies the
Registrar of the termination. The Registrar then shall take necessary measures
to permit the person to register a vehicle owned or leased by the person or to
transfer registration of the vehicle.
      (7)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during or after
committing the offense for which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(R.C. § 4510.11)
   (B)   Driving under suspension in violation of other provisions.
      (1)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking in this municipality whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license
has been suspended pursuant to R.C. §§ 2151.354, 2151.87, 2935.27, 3123.58,
4301.99, 4510.032, 4510.22 or 4510.33, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
      (2)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth and Social Security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (B)(1) above may be admitted into evidence as prima facie
evidence that the license of the person was under suspension at the time of the
alleged violation of division (B)(1) above. The person charged with a violation
of division (B)(1) above may offer evidence to rebut this prima facie evidence.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) above is guilty of driving under
suspension and shall be punished as provided in division (B)(3)(a) below or
division (B)(3)(b) above.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(3)(b) below, the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. The offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
         (b)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously
was convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of division (B)(1)
above, or any combination of two or more violations of division (B)(1) above,
R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or 4510.16, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, and the offender
shall provide the court with proof of financial responsibility as defined in
R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide that proof of financial
responsibility, then in addition to any other penalties provided by law, the
court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not
exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss arising from an accident or collision
that was the direct and proximate result of the offender’s operation of the
vehicle before, during or after committing the offense for which the offender
is sentenced under this section.
(R.C. § 4510.111)
   (C)   Repeat traffic offender; point system suspension. Any person whose
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating
privileges are suspended as a repeat traffic offender under R.C. § 4510.037 and
who, during the suspension, operates any motor vehicle upon any public roads
and highways is guilty of driving under a 12-point suspension, a misdemeanor of
the first degree. The court shall sentence the offender to a minimum term of
three days in jail. No court shall suspend the first three days of jail time
imposed pursuant to this division.
(R.C. § 4510.037(J))
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under division
(A) above that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
§ 71.20 OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE OR MOTORCYCLE WITHOUT VALID LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   No person, except those expressly exempted under R.C. §§
4507.03, 4507.04 and 4507.05, shall operate any motor vehicle upon a public
road or highway or any public or private property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular travel or parking in this municipality unless the person
has a valid driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a commercial
driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4506.
      (2)   No person, except a person expressly exempted under R.C. §§
4507.03, 4507.04 and 4507.05, shall operate any motorcycle upon a public road
or highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking in this municipality unless the person has a valid
license as a motorcycle operator that was issued upon application by the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles under R.C. Chapter 4507. The license shall be in
the form of an endorsement, as determined by the Registrar, upon a driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, if the person has a valid license to operate a
motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle, or in the form of a restricted
license as provided in R.C. § 4507.14, if the person does not have a valid
license to operate a motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle.
   (B)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth and Social Security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) above may be admitted into evidence as
prima facie evidence that the person did not have either a valid driver’s or
commercial driver’s license at the time of the alleged violation of division
(A)(1) above or a valid license as a motorcycle operator either in the form of
an endorsement upon a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or a restricted
license at the time of the alleged violation of division (A)(2) above. The
person charged with a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) above may offer
evidence to rebut this prima facie evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operating a motor vehicle
or motorcycle without a valid license and shall be punished as follows.
      (1)   If the trier of fact finds that the offender never has held a valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license issued by this state or any other
jurisdiction, or, in a case involving the operation of a motorcycle by the
offender, if the offender has never held a valid license as a motorcycle
operator, either in the form of an endorsement upon a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or in the form of a restricted license, except as otherwise
provided in this division, the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case. If the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation of this section or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
      (2)   If the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or, in a case involving the operation of a motorcycle by the offender, the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license bearing the motorcycle
endorsement or the offender’s restricted license was expired at the time of the
offense, except as otherwise provided in this division, the offense is a minor
misdemeanor. If within three years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
   (D)   The court shall not impose a license suspension for a first violation
of this section or if more than three years have passed since the offender’s
last violation of R.C. § 4510.12, this section or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (E)   If the offender is sentenced under division (C)(2) above, if within
three years of the offense the offender previously was convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one or more violations of R.C. § 4510.12, this section or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and if the offender’s license was
expired for more than six months at the time of the offense, the court may
impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial
driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license or
nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)
(7).
(R.C. § 4510.12)
§ 71.21 DRIVING UNDER OVI SUSPENSION.
   (A)   No person whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege has been suspended under R.C. §§ 4511.19,
4511.191 or 4511.196 or under R.C. § 4510.07 for a conviction of a violation of
a municipal OVI ordinance shall operate any motor vehicle upon the public roads
or highways within this municipality during the period of the suspension.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of driving under OVI
suspension. The court shall sentence the offender under R.C. Chapter 2929,
subject to the differences authorized or required by this section.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2) or (B)(3) below,
driving under OVI suspension is a misdemeanor of the first degree. The court
shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of three consecutive days. The three-day
term shall be imposed, unless, subject to division (C) below, the court instead
imposes a sentence of not less than 30 consecutive days of house arrest with
electronic monitoring. A period of house arrest with electronic monitoring
imposed under this division shall not exceed six months. If the court imposes a
mandatory three-day jail term under this division, the court may impose a jail
term in addition to that term, provided that in no case shall the cumulative
jail term imposed for the offense exceed six months;
         (b)   A fine of not less than $250 and not more than $1,000;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section; and
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, immobilization for 30 days of the
offender’s vehicle and impoundment for 30 days of the identification license
plates of that vehicle. The order for immobilization and impoundment shall be
issued and enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
      (2)   If, within six years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of this section or one
equivalent offense, driving under OVI suspension is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of ten consecutive days. Notwithstanding
the jail terms provided in R.C. §§ 2929.21 through 2929.28, the court may
sentence the offender to a longer jail term of not more than one year. The 10-
day mandatory jail term shall be imposed unless, subject to division (C) below,
the court instead imposes a sentence of not less than 90 consecutive days of
house arrest with electronic monitoring. The period of house arrest with
electronic monitoring shall not exceed one year;
         (b)   Notwithstanding the fines provided for in R.C. Chapter 2929, a
fine of not less than $500 and not more than $2,500;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) below; and
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, immobilization of the offender’s
vehicle for 60 days and the impoundment for 60 days of the identification
license plates of that vehicle. The order for immobilization and impoundment
shall be issued and enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
      (3)   If, within six years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section
or two or more equivalent offenses, driving under OVI suspension is a
misdemeanor. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of 30 consecutive days. Notwithstanding
the jail terms provided in R.C. §§ 2929.21 through 2929.28, the court may
sentence the offender to a longer jail term of not more than one year. The
court shall not sentence the offender to a term of house arrest with electronic
monitoring in lieu of the mandatory portion of the jail term;
         (b)   Notwithstanding the fines set forth in R.C. Chapter 2929, a fine
of not less than $500 and not more than $2,500;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) below;
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, criminal forfeiture to the state
of the offender’s vehicle. The order of criminal forfeiture shall be issued and
enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234. If title to a motor vehicle that
is subject to an order for criminal forfeiture under this division is assigned
or transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, the court may fine
the offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of the
National Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds from any fine so imposed
shall be distributed in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234(C)(2).
   (C)   (1)   No court shall impose an alternative sentence of house arrest
with electronic monitoring under division (B)(1) or (B)(2) above unless, within
60 days of the date of sentencing, the court issues a written finding on the
record that, due to the unavailability of space at the jail where the offender
is required to serve the jail term imposed, the offender will not be able to
begin serving that term within the 60-day period following the date of
sentencing.
      (2)   An offender sentenced under this section to a period of house
arrest with electronic monitoring shall be permitted work release during that
period.
   (D)   Fifty percent of any fine imposed by a court under division (B)(1),
(B)(2) or (B)(3) above shall be deposited into the municipal Indigent Drivers
Alcohol Treatment Fund under the control of that court, as created by the
municipality pursuant to R.C. § 4511.191(H).
   (E)   In addition to or independent of all other penalties provided by law
or ordinance, the trial judge of any court of record or the mayor of a mayor’s
court shall impose on an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
violation of this section a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
      (1)   When permitted as specified in R.C. § 4510.021, if the court grants
limited driving privileges during a suspension imposed under this section, the
privileges shall be granted on the additional condition that the offender must
display restricted license plates, issued under R.C. § 4503.231, on the vehicle
driven subject to the privileges, except as provided in R.C. § 4503.231(B).
      (2)   A suspension of a commercial driver’s license under this section
shall be concurrent with any period of suspension or disqualification under
R.C. § 3123.58 or R.C. § 4506.16. No person who is disqualified for life from
holding a commercial driver’s license under R.C. § 4506.16 shall be issued a
driver’s license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period for which the
commercial driver’s license was suspended under this section, and no person
whose commercial driver’s license is suspended under this section shall be
issued a driver’s license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period of the
suspension.
   (F)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during or after
committing the offense that is a misdemeanor of the first degree under this
section for which the offender is sentenced.
   (G)   As used in this section:
      ELECTRONIC MONITORING. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE. Any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of a municipal ordinance, law of another state, or
law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to division (A)
above; and
         (b)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to division (A) above.
      JAIL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      MANDATORY JAIL TERM. The mandatory term in jail of three, ten or 30
consecutive days that must be imposed under division (B)(1), (B)(2) or (B)(3)
above upon an offender convicted of a violation of division (A) above and in
relation to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term
must be served in a jail; and
         (b)   Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term
cannot be suspended, reduced or otherwise modified pursuant to any provision of
the Ohio Revised Code.
(R.C. § 4510.14)
   (H)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
Statutory reference:
   Immobilization of vehicle; impoundment of license plates; criminal
forfeiture of vehicle, see R.C. § 4510.161
§ 71.22 DRIVING UNDER FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY LAW SUSPENSION OR CANCELLATION;
DRIVING UNDER A NONPAYMENT OF JUDGMENT SUSPENSION.
   (A)   No person, whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or temporary
instruction permit or nonresident’s operating privilege has been suspended or
canceled pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4509, shall operate any motor vehicle within
this municipality, or knowingly permit any motor vehicle owned by the person to
be operated by another person in the municipality, during the period of the
suspension or cancellation, except as specifically authorized by R.C. Chapter
4509. No person shall operate a motor vehicle within this municipality, or
knowingly permit any motor vehicle owned by the person to be operated by
another person in the municipality, during the period in which the person is
required by R.C. § 4509.45 to file and maintain proof of financial
responsibility for a violation of R.C. § 4509.101, unless proof of financial
responsibility is maintained with respect to that vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any public
or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking in this municipality if the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or temporary instruction permit or nonresident operating privilege has
been suspended pursuant to R.C. §§ 4509.37 or 4509.40 for nonpayment of a
judgment.
   (C)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth and Social Security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A) or (B) above may be admitted into evidence as prima
facie evidence that the license of the person was under either a financial
responsibility law suspension at the time of the alleged violation of division
(A) above or a nonpayment of judgment suspension at the time of the alleged
violation of division (B) above. The person charged with a violation of
division (A) or (B) above may offer evidence to rebut this prima facie
evidence.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) above is guilty of driving under
financial responsibility law suspension or cancellation and shall be punished
as provided in this division (D). Whoever violates division (B) above is guilty
of driving under a nonpayment of judgment suspension and shall be punished as
provided in this division (D).
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(2) below, the offense
is an unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an unclassified
misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously was
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section, or
any combination of two violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or
4510.16, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (3)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. §
2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss arising from an
accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result of the
offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during or after committing the
offense for which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(R.C. § 4510.16)
   (E)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
Statutory reference:
   Immobilization of vehicle; impoundment of license plates; criminal
forfeiture of vehicle, see R.C. § 4510.161
§ 71.23 FAILURE TO REINSTATE LICENSE.
   (A)   No person whose driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit or nonresident’s operating privilege has been
suspended shall operate any motor vehicle upon a public road or highway or any
public or private property after the suspension has expired unless the person
has complied with all license reinstatement requirements imposed by the court,
the bureau of motor vehicles or another provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
   (B)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and Social Security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A) above may be admitted into evidence as prima facie
evidence that the license of the person had not been reinstated by the person
at the time of the alleged violation of division (A) above. The person charged
with a violation of division (A) above may offer evidence to rebut this prima
facie evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to reinstate a
license, and shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) below, whoever violates this
section is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an
unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of a violation of division (A) above, the
offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted of two or more
violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.21 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (3)   In all cases, the court may impose upon the offender a class seven
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary driver’s license or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
(R.C. § 4510.21)
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSES
§ 71.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL CONCENTRATION. The concentration of alcohol in a person’s blood,
breath or urine. When expressed as a percentage, it means grams of alcohol per
the following: 100 milliliters of whole blood, blood serum or blood plasma; 210
liters of breath; or 100 milliliters of urine.
   COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE. A license issued in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 4506 that authorizes an individual to drive a commercial motor vehicle.
   COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE INFORMATION SYSTEM. The information system
established pursuant to the requirements of the “Commercial Motor Vehicle
Safety Act of 1986”, 100 Stat. 3207-171, 49 U.S.C. App. 2701.
   COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE. Except when used in R.C. § 4506.25, any motor
vehicle designed or used to transport persons or property that meets any of the
following qualifications:
      (1)   Any combination of vehicles with a gross vehicle weight or combined
gross vehicle weight rating of 26,001 pounds or more, provided that the gross
vehicle weight or gross vehicle weight rating of the vehicle or vehicles being
towed is in excess of 10,000 pounds;
      (2)   Any single vehicle with a gross vehicle weight or gross vehicle
weight rating of 26,001 pounds or more;
      (3)   Any single vehicle or combination of vehicles that is not a Class A
or Class B vehicle, but is designed to transport 16 or more passengers
including the driver;
      (4)   Any school bus with a gross vehicle weight or gross vehicle weight
rating of less than 26,001 pounds that is designed to transport fewer than 16
passengers including the driver;
      (5)   Is transporting hazardous materials for which placarding is
required under 49 C.F.R. part 172, subpart F, as amended; or
      (6)   Any single vehicle or combination of vehicles that is designed to
be operated and to travel on a public street or highway and is considered by
the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration to be a commercial motor
vehicle, including, but not limited to, a motorized crane, a vehicle whose
function is to pump cement, a rig for drilling wells and a portable crane.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Includes all of the following:
      (1)   Any substance classified as a controlled substance under the
“Controlled Substances Act”, 80 Stat. 1242 (1970), 21 U.S.C. § 802(6), as
amended;
      (2)   Any substance included in Schedules I through V of 21 C.F.R. part
1308, as amended; and
      (3)   Any drug of abuse.
   CONVICTION. An unvacated adjudication of guilt or a determination that a
person has violated or failed to comply with the law in a court of original
jurisdiction or an authorized administrative tribunal, an unvacated forfeiture
of bail or collateral deposited to secure the person’s appearance in court, a
plea of guilty or nolo contendere accepted by the court, the payment of a fine
or court cost, or violation of a condition of release without bail, regardless
of whether or not the penalty is rebated, suspended or probated.
   DISQUALIFICATION. Any of the following:
      (1)   The suspension, revocation or cancellation of a person’s privileges
to operate a commercial motor vehicle;
      (2)   Any withdrawal of a person’s privileges to operate a commercial
motor vehicle as the result of a violation of state or local law relating to
motor vehicle traffic-control other than parking, vehicle weight or vehicle
defect violations; and/or
      (3)   A determination by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
that a person is not qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle under 49
C.F.R. § 391.
   DOMICILED. Having a true, fixed, principal and permanent residence to which
an individual intends to return.
   DOWNGRADE. Any of the following, as applicable:
      (1)   A change in the commercial driver’s license, or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit, holder’s self-certified status as
described in R.C. § 4506.10(A)(1);
      (2)   A change to a lesser class of vehicle; and
      (3)   Removal of commercial driver’s license privileges from the
individual’s driver’s license.
   DRIVE. To drive, operate or be in physical control of a motor vehicle.
   DRIVER. Any person who drives, operates or is in physical control of a
commercial motor vehicle or is required to have a commercial driver’s license.
   DRIVER’S LICENSE. A license issued by the Bureau of Motor Vehicles that
authorizes an individual to drive.
   DRUG OF ABUSE. Any controlled substance, dangerous drug as defined in R.C. §
4729.01, or over-the-counter medication that, when taken in quantities
exceeding the recommended dosage, can result in impairment of judgment or
reflexes.
   ELECTRONIC DEVICE. Includes a cellular telephone, a personal digital
assistant, a pager, a computer and any other device used to input, write, send,
receive or read text.
   ELIGIBLE UNIT OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. A village, township or county that has a
population of not more than 3,000 persons according to the most recent federal
census.
   EMPLOYER. Any person, including the federal government, any state and a
political subdivision of any state, that owns or leases a commercial motor
vehicle or assigns a person to drive such a motor vehicle.
   ENDORSEMENT. An authorization on a person’s commercial driver’s license that
is required to permit the person to operate a specified type of commercial
motor vehicle.
   FARM TRUCK. A truck controlled and operated by a farmer for use in the
transportation to or from a farm, for a distance of not more than 150 miles, of
products of the farm, including livestock and its products, poultry and its
products, floricultural and horticultural products and in the transportation to
the farm, from a distance of not more than 150 miles, of supplies for the farm,
including tile, fence and every other thing or commodity used in agricultural,
floricultural, horticultural, livestock and poultry production, and livestock,
poultry and other animals and things used for breeding, feeding or other
purposes connected with the operation of the farm, when the truck is operated
in accordance with this definition and is not used in the operations of a motor
carrier, as defined in R.C. § 4923.01.
   FATALITY. The death of a person as the result of a motor vehicle accident
occurring not more than 365 days prior to the date of death.
   FELONY. Any offense under federal or state law that is punishable by death
or imprisonment for a term exceeding one year and includes any offense
specifically classified as a felony under the law of this state, regardless of
the penalty that may be imposed.
   FOREIGN JURISDICTION. Any jurisdiction other than a state.
   GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT RATING. The value specified by the manufacturer as the
maximum loaded weight of a single or a combination vehicle. The gross vehicle
weight rating of a combination vehicle is the gross vehicle weight rating of
the power unit plus the gross vehicle weight rating of each towed unit.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any material that has been designated as hazardous
under 49 U.S.C. § 5103 and is required to be placarded under 49 C.F.R. part
172, subpart F or any quantity of a material listed as a select agent or toxin
in 42 C.F.R. part 73, as amended.
   IMMINENT HAZARD. The existence of a condition that presents a substantial
likelihood that death, serious illness, severe personal injury or a substantial
endangerment to health, property or the environment may occur before the
reasonably foreseeable completion date of a formal proceeding begun to lessen
the risk of death, illness, injury or endangerment.
   MEDICAL VARIANCE. One of the following received by a driver from the Federal
Motor Carrier Safety Administration that allows the driver to be issued a
medical certificate:
      (1)   An exemption letter permitting operation of a commercial motor
vehicle under 49 C.F.R. part 381, subpart C or 49 C.F.R. § 391.64; or
      (2)   A skill performance evaluation certificate permitting operation of
a commercial motor vehicle pursuant to 49 C.F.R. § 391.49.
   MOBILE TELEPHONE. A mobile communication device that falls under or uses any
commercial mobile radio service as defined in 47 C.F.R. part 20, except that
mobile telephone does not include two- way or citizens band radio services.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle, machine, tractor, trailer or semitrailer propelled
or drawn by mechanical power used on highways, except that such term does not
include a vehicle, machine, tractor, trailer or semitrailer operated
exclusively on a rail.
   OUT-OF-SERVICE ORDER. A declaration by an authorized enforcement officer of
a federal, state, local, Canadian or Mexican jurisdiction declaring that the
driver, commercial motor vehicle or commercial motor carrier operation is out
of service as defined in 49 C.F.R. § 390.5.
   PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
   PORTABLE TANK. A liquid or gaseous packaging designed primarily to be loaded
onto or temporarily attached to a vehicle and equipped with skids, mountings or
accessories to facilitate handling of the tank by mechanical means.
   PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01(E)(1) and
(E)(3).
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Includes every vehicle that is defined as a
recreational vehicle in R.C. § 4501.01 and is used exclusively for purposes
other than engaging in business for profit.
   RESIDENCE. Any person’s residence determined in accordance with standards
prescribed in the rules adopted by the Registrar.
   SCHOOL BUS. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   SERIOUS TRAFFIC VIOLATION. Any of the following:
      (1)   A conviction arising from a single charge of operating a commercial
motor vehicle in violation of any provision of R.C. § 4506.03;
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (2)(b) below, a violation
while operating a commercial motor vehicle of a law of this state, or any
municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or any other
substantially equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of
another state, prohibiting either of the following:
            1.   Texting while driving; and
            2.   Using a handheld mobile telephone.
         (b)   It is not a serious traffic violation if the person was texting
or using a handheld mobile telephone to contact law enforcement or other
emergency services.
      (3)   A conviction arising from the operation of any motor vehicle that
involves any of the following:
         (a)   A single charge of any speed in excess of the posted speed limit
by 15 mph or more;
         (b)   Violations of R.C. § 4511.20 or R.C. § 4511.201 or any
substantially equivalent ordinance or resolution, or of any substantially
equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of another state;
         (c)   Violation of a law of this state or an ordinance or resolution
relating to traffic-control, other than a parking violation, or of any
substantially equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of
another state, that results in a fatal accident;
         (d)   Violation of R.C. § 4506.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or of any substantially
equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of another state, that
involves the operation of a commercial motor vehicle without a valid commercial
driver’s license with the proper class or endorsement for the specific vehicle
group being operated or for the passengers or type of cargo being transported;
         (e)   Violation of R.C. § 4506.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or of any substantially
equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of another state, that
involves the operation of a commercial motor vehicle without a valid commercial
driver’s license being in the person’s possession;
         (f)   Violation of R.C. § 4511.33 or R.C. § 4511.34, or any municipal
ordinance or county or township resolution substantially equivalent to either
of those sections, or any substantially equivalent law of another state or
political subdivision of another state; and
         (g)   Violation of any other law of this state, any law of another
state, or any ordinance or resolution of a political subdivision of this state
or another state that meets both of the following requirements:
            1.   It relates to traffic-control, other than a parking violation;
and
            2.   It is determined to be a serious traffic violation by the
United States Secretary of Transportation and is designated by the director as
such by rule.
   STATE. A state of the United States and includes the District of Columbia.
   TANK VEHICLE. Any commercial motor vehicle that is designed to transport any
liquid or gaseous materials within a tank or tanks that are either permanently
or temporarily attached to the vehicle or its chassis and have an individual
rated capacity of more than 119 gallons and an aggregate rated capacity of
1,000 gallons or more. The term does not include a commercial motor vehicle
transporting an empty storage container tank that is not designed for
transportation, has a rated capacity of 1,000 gallons or more, and is
temporarily attached to a flatbed trailer.
   TESTER. A person or entity acting pursuant to a valid agreement entered into
pursuant to R.C. § 4506.09(B).
   TEXTING. Manually entering alphanumeric text into, or reading text from, an
electronic device. TEXTING includes short message service (SMS), e-mail,
instant messaging, a command or request to access a world wide web page,
pressing more than a single button to initiate or terminate a voice
communication using a mobile telephone or engaging in any other form of
electronic text retrieval or entry, for present or future communication.
TEXTING does not include the following:
      (1)   Using voice commands to initiate, receive or terminate a voice
communication using a mobile telephone;
      (2)   Inputting, selecting or reading information on a global positioning
system or navigation system;
      (3)   Pressing a single button to initiate or terminate a voice
communication using a mobile telephone; or
      (4)   Using, for a purpose that is not otherwise prohibited by law, a
device capable of performing multiple functions, such as a fleet management
system, a dispatching device, a mobile telephone, a citizens band radio or a
music player.
   TEXTING WHILE DRIVING. Texting while operating a commercial motor vehicle,
with the motor running, including while temporarily stationary because of
traffic, a traffic-control device or other momentary delays. Texting while
driving does not include operating a commercial motor vehicle with or without
the motor running when the driver has moved the vehicle to the side of, or off,
a highway and is stopped in a location where the vehicle can safely remain
stationary.
   UNITED STATES. The 50 states and the District of Columbia.
   UPGRADE. A change in the class of vehicles, endorsements or self-certified
status as described in R.C. § 4506.10(A)(1) that expands the ability of a
current commercial driver’s license holder to operate commercial motor vehicles
under this chapter or R.C. Chapter 4506.
   USE OF A HANDHELD MOBILE TELEPHONE. Means:
      (1)   Using at least one hand to hold a mobile telephone to conduct a
voice communication;
      (2)   Dialing or answering a mobile telephone by pressing more than a
single button; or
      (3)   Reaching for a mobile telephone in a manner that requires a driver
to maneuver so that the driver is no longer in a seated driving position, or
restrained by a seat belt that is installed in accordance with 49 C.F.R. §
393.93 and adjusted in accordance with the vehicle manufacturer’s instructions.
   VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 4506.01)
§ 71.36 USE OF ACTUAL GROSS WEIGHT IN LIEU OF RATING.
   For purposes of this subchapter, the actual gross weight of a vehicle or
combination of vehicles may be used in lieu of a gross vehicle weight rating to
determine whether a vehicle or combination of vehicles qualifies as a
commercial motor vehicle if the gross vehicle weight rating specified by the
manufacturer for the vehicle of combination of vehicles is not determinable, or
if the manufacturer of the vehicle has not specified a gross vehicle weight
rating.
(R.C. § 4506.011)
§ 71.37 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having in the person’s
possession or otherwise under the person’s control more than one valid driver’s
license issued by this state, any other state or by a foreign jurisdiction;
      (2)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle on a highway in this municipality
in violation of an out-of-service order while the person’s driving privilege is
suspended, revoked or cancelled, or while the person is subject to
disqualification;
      (3)   Drive a motor vehicle on a highway in the municipality under the
authority of a commercial driver’s license issued by another state or a foreign
jurisdiction, after having been a resident of this state for 30 days or longer;
and/or
      (4)   Knowingly give false information in any application or
certification required by R.C. § 4506.07.
   (B)   The municipality shall give every conviction occurring out of this
state and notice of which was received by the state Department of Public Safety
after December 31, 1989, full faith and credit and treat it for sanctioning
purposes under this chapter as though the conviction had occurred in this
state.
(R.C. § 4506.04(A), (B))
   (C)   No person shall drive any commercial motor vehicle for which an
endorsement is required under R.C. § 4506.12 unless the proper endorsement
appears on the person’s commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit. No person shall drive a commercial motor
vehicle in violation of a restriction established under R.C. § 4506.12 that
appears on the person’s commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit.
(R.C. § 4506.12(I))
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3) above is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) above is guilty of falsification,
a misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition, the provisions of R.C. §
4507.19 apply.
(R.C. § 4506.04(C))
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (C) above is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   The offenses established under division (C) above are strict
liability offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of these
offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be construed to imply that any
other offense for which there is no specified degree of culpability, whether in
this section or another section of this code or the Ohio Revised Code, is not a
strict liability offense.
(R.C. § 4506.12(J))
§ 71.38 PREREQUISITES TO OPERATION OF COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   Except as provided in divisions (B) or (C) below, the following shall
apply:
      (1)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle on a highway in
this state unless the person holds, and has in the person’s possession, any of
the following:
         (a)   A valid commercial driver’s license with proper endorsements for
the motor vehicle being driven, issued by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or by
another jurisdiction recognized by this state;
         (b)   A valid examiner’s commercial driving permit issued under R.C. §
4506.13;
         (c)   A valid restricted commercial driver’s license and waiver for
farm-related service industries issued under R.C. § 4506.24; and
         (d)   A valid commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit
issued by the Registrar, provided that the person is accompanied by an
authorized state driver’s license examiner or tester or a person who has been
issued and has in the person’s immediate possession a current, valid commercial
driver’s license and who meets the requirements of R.C. § 4506.06(B).
      (2)   No person’s commercial driver’s license temporary instruction
permit shall be upgraded, and no commercial driver’s license shall be upgraded,
renewed or issued to a person until the person surrenders to the registrar of
motor vehicles all valid licenses and permits issued to the person by this
state or by another jurisdiction recognized by this state. If the license or
permit was issued by any other state or another jurisdiction recognized by this
state, the Registrar shall report the surrender of a license or permit to the
issuing authority, together with information that a license or permit is now
issued in this state. The Registrar shall destroy any such license or permit
that is not returned to the issuing authority.
      (3)   No person who has been a resident of this state for 30 days or
longer shall drive a commercial motor vehicle under the authority of a
commercial driver’s license issued in another jurisdiction.
   (B)   Nothing in division (A) above applies to any qualified person when
engaged in the operation of any of the following:
      (1)   A farm truck;
      (2)   Fire equipment for a fire department, volunteer or nonvolunteer
fire company, fire district, joint fire district, or the State Fire Marshal;
      (3)   A public safety vehicle used to provide transportation or emergency
medical service for ill or injured persons;
      (4)   A recreational vehicle;
      (5)   A commercial motor vehicle within the boundaries of an eligible
unit of local government, if the person is employed by the eligible unit of
local government and is operating the commercial motor vehicle for the purpose
of removing snow or ice from a roadway by plowing, sanding, or salting, but
only if either the employee who holds a commercial driver’s license issued
under R.C. Chapter 4506 and ordinarily operates a commercial motor vehicle for
these purposes is unable to operate the vehicle, or the employing eligible unit
of local government determines that a snow or ice emergency exists that
requires additional assistance;
      (6)   A vehicle operated for military purposes by any member or uniformed
employee of the armed forces of the United States or their reserve components,
including the Ohio National Guard. This exception does not apply to United
States reserve technicians;
      (7)   A commercial motor vehicle that is operated for nonbusiness
purposes. “Operated for nonbusiness purposes” means that the commercial motor
vehicle is not used in commerce as “commerce” is defined in 49 C.F.R. § 383.5,
as amended, and is not regulated by the Public Utilities Commission pursuant to
R.C. Chapter 4905, 4921 or 4923;
      (8)   A motor vehicle that is designed primarily for the transportation
of goods and not persons, while that motor vehicle is being used for the
occasional transportation of personal property by individuals not for
compensation and not in the furtherance of a commercial enterprise;
      (9)   A police SWAT team vehicle; and
      (10)   A police vehicle used to transport prisoners.
   (C)   Nothing contained in division (B)(5) above shall be construed as
preempting or superseding any law, rule or regulation of this state concerning
the safe operation of commercial motor vehicles.
(R.C. § 4506.03(A) - (C))
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a person may drive a
commercial motor vehicle on a highway in this municipality if all of the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   The person has a valid commercial driver’s license or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit issued by any state or
jurisdiction in accordance with the minimum standards adopted by the Federal
Motor Carrier Safety Administration under the “Commercial Motor Vehicle Safety
Act of 1986”, 100 Stat. 3207-171, 49 U.S.C. App., for issuance of commercial
driver’s licenses;
      (2)   The person’s commercial driver’s license or temporary instruction
permit is not suspended, revoked or canceled, and the person has the
appropriate endorsements for the vehicle that is being driven;
      (3)   The person is not disqualified from driving a commercial motor
vehicle;
      (4)   The person is not subject to an out-of-service order; and
      (5)   The person is medically certified as physically qualified to
operate a commercial motor vehicle in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4506.
         (a)   A person who submitted a medical examiner’s certificate to the
Registrar in accordance with R.C. § 4506.10(A)(1) and whose medical
certification information is maintained in the commercial driver’s license
information system is not required to have the medical examiner’s certificate
in the person’s possession when on duty.
         (b)   A person whose medical certification information is not
maintained in the commercial driver’s license information system shall have in
the person’s possession when on duty the original or a copy of the current
medical examiner’s certificate that was submitted to the Registrar. However,
the person may operate a commercial motor vehicle with such proof of medical
certification for not more than 15 days after the date the current medical
examiner’s certificate was issued to the person.
         (c)   A person who has a medical variance shall have in the person’s
possession the original or copy of the medical variance documentation at all
times while on duty.
   (E)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle on a highway in this
municipality if the person does not meet the conditions specified in division
(D) above.
   (F)   Except as set forth in 49 C.F.R. §§ 390.3(f), 391.2, 391.62, 391.67
and 391.68, no person holding a commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit or a commercial driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter
4506 may drive a commercial motor vehicle in interstate commerce until the
person is at least 21 years of age.
(R.C. § 4506.05(A) - (C))
   (G)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (2)   The offenses established under divisions (D), (E) and (F) above are
strict liability offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of
these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be construed to imply
that any other offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability,
is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. §§ 4506.03(D), 4506.05(D))
§ 71.39 PHYSICAL QUALIFICATION TO OPERATE COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person who holds a valid commercial driver’s license shall drive a
commercial motor vehicle unless the person is physically qualified to do so.
      (1)   Any person applying for a commercial driver’s license or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit, the renewal or upgrade of a
commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit, or the transfer of a commercial driver’s license from out
of state shall self-certify to the Registrar for purposes of 49 C.F.R. § 383.71
one of the following in regard to the applicant’s operation of a commercial
motor vehicle, as applicable.
         (a)   1.   If the applicant operates or expects to operate a
commercial motor vehicle in interstate or foreign commerce and is subject to
and meets the requirements under 49 C.F.R. part 391, the applicant shall self-
certify that the applicant is non-excepted interstate and shall provide the
Registrar with the original or a copy of a medical examiner’s certificate and
each subsequently issued medical examiner’s certificate prepared by a qualified
medical examiner to maintain a medically certified status on the applicant’s
commercial driver licensing system driver record.
            2.   If the applicant operates or expects to operate a commercial
motor vehicle in interstate commerce, but engages in transportation or
operations excepted under 49 C.F.R. §§ 390.3(f), 391.2, 391.68 or 398.3 from
all or parts of the qualification requirements of 49 C.F.R. part 391, the
applicant shall self-certify that the applicant is excepted interstate and is
not required to obtain a medical examiner’s certificate.
         (b)   1.   If the applicant operates only in intrastate commerce and
is subject to state driver qualification requirements, the applicant shall
self-certify that the applicant is non-excepted intrastate.
            2.   If the applicant operates only in intrastate commerce and is
excepted from all or parts of the state driver qualification requirements, the
applicant shall self-certify that the applicant is excepted intrastate.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the expiration date on a person’s commercial
driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit,
every commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit holder shall provide the Registrar with the certification
required by this section on or after January 30, 2012, but prior to January 30,
2014.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4506.10(A), (E))
§ 71.40 CRIMINAL OFFENSES.
   (A)   No person who holds a commercial driver’s license or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit or who operates a motor vehicle
for which a commercial driver’s license or permit is required shall do any of
the following:
      (1)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having a measurable or
detectable amount of alcohol or of a controlled substance in the person’s
blood, breath or urine;
      (2)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of 0.04% or more by whole blood or breath;
      (3)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of .048% or more by blood serum or blood plasma;
      (4)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of .056% or more by urine;
      (5)   Drive a motor vehicle while under the influence of a controlled
substance;
      (6)   Drive a motor vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a municipal
OVI ordinance as defined in R.C. § 4511.181;
      (7)   Use a vehicle in the commission of a felony;
      (8)   Refuse to submit to a test under R.C. § 4506.17 or R.C. § 4511.191,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (9)   Operate a commercial motor vehicle while the person’s commercial
driver’s license or permit or other commercial driving privileges are revoked,
suspended, cancelled or disqualified;
      (10)   Cause a fatality through the negligent operation of a commercial
motor vehicle, including, but not limited to, the offenses of aggravated
vehicular homicide, vehicular homicide and vehicular manslaughter;
      (11)   Fail to stop after an accident in violation of R.C. §§ 4549.02 to
4549.03, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (12)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle in violation of any provision of
R.C. §§ 4511.61 through 4511.63 or any federal or local law or ordinance
pertaining to railroad-highway grade crossings; and/or
      (13)   Use a motor vehicle in the commission of a felony involving the
manufacture, distribution or dispensing of a controlled substance as defined in
R.C. § 3719.01 or the possession with intent to manufacture, distribute or
dispense a controlled substance.
(R.C. § 4506.15(A))
   (B)   No person shall refuse to immediately surrender the person’s
commercial driver’s license or permit to a peace officer when required to do so
by R.C. § 4506.17.
(R.C. § 4506.17(H))
   (C)   (1)   Within the jurisdictional limits of the appointing authority,
any peace officer shall stop and detain any person found violating division (A)
above without obtaining a warrant. When there is reasonable ground to believe
that a violation of division (A) above has been committed and a test or tests
of the person’s whole blood, blood plasma or blood serum, breath or urine is
necessary, the peace officer shall take the person to an appropriate place for
testing. If a person refuses to submit to a test after being warned as provided
in R.C. § 4506.17(C), or submits to a test that discloses the presence of a
controlled substance or an alcohol concentration of 0.04% or more by whole
blood or breath, an alcohol concentration of .048% or more by blood serum or
blood plasma, or an alcohol concentration of .056% or more by urine, the peace
officer shall require that the person immediately surrender the person’s
commercial driver’s license to the peace officer.
      (2)   As used in this division (C), JURISDICTIONAL LIMITS means the
limits within which a peace officer may arrest and detain a person without a
warrant under R.C. § 2935.03, except that the Superintendent and the troopers
of the State Highway Patrol may stop and detain, without warrant, any person
who, in the presence of the Superintendent or any trooper, is engaged in a
violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter or R.C. Chapter 4506.
(R.C. § 4506.23)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. §§ 4506.15(B), 4506.17(N))
Statutory reference:
   Alcohol or controlled substance testing, disqualification of drivers, see
R.C. § 4506.17
   Disqualification of drivers for violations, see R.C. § 4506.16
§ 71.41 APPLICATION OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of 49 C.F.R. part 383, subpart C (Notification
Requirements and Employer Responsibilities), as amended, shall apply to all
commercial drivers or persons who apply for employment as commercial drivers.
No person shall fail to make a report to the person’s employer as required by
this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4506.19)
§ 71.42 EMPLOYMENT OF DRIVERS OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   Each employer shall require every applicant for employment as a driver
of a commercial vehicle to provide the applicant’s employment history for the
ten years preceding the date the employment application is submitted to the
prospective employer. The following information shall be submitted:
      (1)   A list of the names and addresses of the applicant’s previous
employers for which the applicant was the operator of a commercial motor
vehicle;
      (2)   The dates the applicant was employed by these employers; and
      (3)   The reason for leaving each of these employers.
   (B)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize any driver employed by
the employer to drive a commercial motor vehicle during any period in which any
of the following apply:
      (1)   The driver’s commercial driver’s license is suspended, revoked or
cancelled by any state or a foreign jurisdiction;
      (2)   The driver has lost the privilege to drive, or currently is
disqualified from driving, a commercial motor vehicle in any state or foreign
jurisdiction;
      (3)   The driver, the commercial motor vehicle the driver is driving or
the motor carrier operation is subject to an out-of-service order in any state
or a foreign jurisdiction; and
      (4)   The driver has more than one driver’s license.
   (C)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a
commercial motor vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4506.15.
   (D)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a
commercial motor vehicle if the driver does not hold a valid, current
commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit bearing the proper class or endorsements for the vehicle. No
employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a commercial
motor vehicle in violation of the restrictions on the driver’s commercial
driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A), (B) or (D) above is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) above is guilty of a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 4506.20)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty
otherwise is provided in the section that contains the provision violated is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. §§ 4506.99, 4507.99)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
General Provisions
   
72.001   Speed limits
   
72.002   Posted speed limits
   
72.003   Drag racing prohibited
   
72.004   Slow-moving vehicles
   
72.005   Speed regulations on bridges
   
72.006   Proper lane for travel
   
72.007   Vehicles passing in opposite directions
   
72.008   Rules governing overtaking and passing vehicles
   
72.009   Overtaking and passing on the right
   
72.010   Driving to left of center line
   
72.011   Driving to left of center line forbidden, when
   
72.012   Hazardous zones
   
72.013   One-way traffic
   
72.014   Passing traffic islands
   
72.015   Multiple lane traffic
   
72.016   Space between moving vehicles
   
72.017   Driving on divided roadways
   
72.018   Turn, proper lane
   
72.019   Turning in road prohibited
   
72.020   Starting vehicles
   
72.021   Limitations on backing
   
72.022   Signals before stopping, turning or changing course
   
72.023   Hand and arm signals
   
72.024   Intersections to be kept clear
   
72.025   Speed limits; emergency vehicles
   
72.026   Emergency vehicles to proceed cautiously past red or stop signal
   
72.027   Operating motorcycle, number of passengers
   
72.028   Riding motorcycles abreast
   
72.029   Signal devices on bicycle
   
72.030   Distracted driving
   
72.031   Driving through safety zone
Right-of-Way
   
72.045   Right-of-way at intersections
   
72.046   Right-of-way when vehicle turning left
   
72.047   Right-of-way at through highways; stop signs; yield signs
   
72.048   Right-of-way on public highway
   
72.049   Emergency vehicles; right-of-way
   
72.050   Pedestrians yield right-of-way to public safety vehicle
   
72.051   Funeral procession has right-of-way
   
72.052   Processions and parades; permit required
   
72.053   Funeral processions to use right side of street
   
72.054   Pedestrian on crosswalk has right-of-way
   
72.055   Passing stopped vehicles at crosswalks prohibited
   
72.056   Right-of-way yielded to blind person
   
72.057   Right-of-way yielded by pedestrians
   
72.058   Pedestrians yield right-of-way to public safety vehicle
   
72.059   Stop at sidewalk area; stop signs on private roads and driveways
   
72.060   Pedestrian on sidewalk has right-of-way
Pedestrians
   
72.075   Right half of crosswalk to be used
   
72.076   Duty of pedestrians to look in both directions
   
72.077   Use of walks, crosswalks and the like
   
72.078   Intoxicated or drugged pedestrian hazard on highway
   
72.079   Pedestrian on bridge or railroad crossing
   
72.080   Persons operating motorized wheelchairs
   
72.081   Operation of electric personal assistive mobility devices
   
72.082   Operation of personal delivery device on sidewalks or crosswalks
   
72.083   Low-speed micromobility devices
Grade Crossings
   
72.095   Stop signs at grade crossings
   
72.096   Obedience to signal indicating approach of railroad train
   
72.097   Special provisions for buses and hazardous cargoes
   
72.098   Slow moving vehicles or equipment crossing railroad tracks
   
72.099   Obstruction of roads by railroads
School Buses
   
72.110   Operating school buses
   
72.111   Action against violators
   
72.112   State school bus regulations
   
72.113   Display of inspection decal
   
72.114   Registration and identification required
   
72.115   School bus not used for school purposes
   
72.116   School bus marking
   
72.117   Light requirements
   
72.118   Lights and sign requirements for transportation of preschool children
   
72.119   Restriction on the operation of school buses
   
72.120   Licensing by Department of Public Safety
   
72.121   Occupant restraining device for operator
Prohibitions
   
72.135   Driving on closed streets prohibited
   
72.136   Following emergency vehicles prohibited
   
72.137   Crossing fire hose
   
72.138   Occupying travel trailer while in motion
   
72.139   Driving upon sidewalk area or paths exclusively for bicycles
   
72.140   Obstructing passage of other vehicles
   
72.141   Placing an injurious material on highway or depositing litter from
motor vehicle
   
72.142   Occupant restraining devices
   
72.143   Use of engine brakes prohibited
   
72.144   Operating motor vehicle while wearing earphones or earplugs
   
72.145   Chauffeured limousines and livery services
   
72.146   Cracking exhaust noises; peeling out
   
72.147   Shortcutting across private property
   
72.148   Texting while driving prohibited
   
72.149   Use of electronic wireless communication devices by minors or
probationary drivers while driving prohibited
Statutory reference:
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.001 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, trackless trolley or
streetcar at a speed greater or less than is reasonable or proper, having due
regard to the traffic, surface and width of the street or highway and any other
conditions and no person shall drive any motor vehicle, trackless trolley or
streetcar in and upon any street or highway at a greater speed than will permit
the person to bring it to a stop within the assured clear distance ahead.
   (B)   It is prima-facie lawful, in the absence of a lower limit declared or
established pursuant to this section by the director of transportation or local
authorities, for the operator of a motor vehicle, trackless trolley or
streetcar to operate the same at a speed not exceeding the following.
      (1)   (a)   Twenty mph in school zones during school recess and while
children are going to or leaving school during the opening or closing hours,
and when 20 mph school speed limit signs are erected; except that, on
controlled-access highways and expressways, if the right-of-way line fence has
been erected without pedestrian opening, the speed shall be governed by
division (B)(4) below and on freeways, if the right-of-way line fence has been
erected without pedestrian opening, the speed shall be governed by divisions
(B)(10) and (11) below. The end of every school zone may be marked by a sign
indicating the end of the zone. Nothing in this section or in the manual and
specifications for a uniform system of traffic-control devices shall be
construed to require school zones to be indicated by signs equipped with
flashing or other lights, or giving other special notice of the hours in which
the school zone speed limit is in effect.
         (b)   As used in this section and in R.C. § 4511.212, SCHOOL means all
of the following:
            1.   Any school chartered under R.C. § 3301.16;
            2.   Any nonchartered school that during the preceding year filed
with the department of education in compliance with rule 3301-35-08 of the
O.A.C., a copy of the school’s report for the parents of the school’s pupils
certifying that the school meets the state minimum standards for nonchartered,
nontax-supported schools and presents evidence of this filing to the
jurisdiction from which it is requesting the establishment of a school zone;
            3.   Any special elementary school that in writing requests the
county engineer of the county in which the special elementary school is located
to create a school zone at the location of that school. Upon receipt of such a
written request, the county engineer shall create a school zone at that
location by erecting the appropriate signs; and
            4.   Any preschool education program operated by an educational
service center that is located on a street or highway with a speed limit of 45
mph or more, when the educational service center in writing requests that the
county engineer of the county in which the program is located create a school
zone at the location of that program. Upon receipt of such a written request,
the county engineer shall create a school zone at that location by erecting the
appropriate signs.
         (c)   1.   As used in this section, SCHOOL ZONE means that portion of
a street or highway passing a school fronting upon the street or highway that
is encompassed by projecting the school property lines to the fronting street
or highway, and also includes that portion of a state highway. Upon request
from local authorities for streets and highways under their jurisdiction and
that portion of a state highway under the jurisdiction of the director of
transportation or a request from a county engineer in the case of a school zone
for a special elementary school, the director may extend the traditional school
zone boundaries. The distances in divisions (B)(1)(c)1.a., b. and c. below
shall not exceed three hundred feet per approach per direction and are bounded
by whichever of the following distances or combinations thereof the director
approves as most appropriate:
               a.   The distance encompassed by projecting the school building
lines normal to the fronting highway and extending a distance of three hundred
feet on each approach direction;
               b.   The distance encompassed by projecting the school property
lines intersecting the fronting highway and extending a distance of three
hundred feet on each approach direction; and
               c.   The distance encompassed by the special marking of the
pavement for a principal school pupil crosswalk plus a distance of three
hundred feet on each approach direction of the highway.
            2.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to invalidate the
director’s initial action on August 9, 1976, establishing all school zones at
the traditional school zone boundaries defined by projecting school property
lines, except when those boundaries are extended as provided in divisions (B)
(1)(a) and (c) above.
         (d)   1.   As used in this division, CROSSWALK has the meaning given
that term in R.C. § 4511.01(LL)(2).
            2.   The director may, upon request by resolution of the
legislative authority of a municipal corporation, the board of trustees of a
township or a county board of developmental disabilities created pursuant to
R.C. Chapter 5126, and upon submission by the municipal corporation, township
or county board of such engineering, traffic, and other information as the
director considers necessary, designate a school zone on any portion of a state
route lying within the municipal corporation, lying within the unincorporated
territory of the township, or lying adjacent to the property of a school that
is operated by such county board, that includes a crosswalk customarily used by
children going to or leaving a school during recess and opening and closing
hours, whenever the distance, as measured in a straight line, from the school
property line nearest the crosswalk to the nearest point of the crosswalk is no
more than 1,320 feet. Such a school zone shall include the distance encompassed
by the crosswalk and extending 300 feet on each approach direction of the state
route.
         (e)   As used in this section, SPECIAL ELEMENTARY SCHOOL means a
school that meets all of the following criteria.
            1.   It is not chartered and does not receive tax revenue from any
source.
            2.   It does not educate children beyond the eighth grade.
            3.   It is located outside the limits of a municipal corporation.
            4.   A majority of the total number of students enrolled at the
school are not related by blood.
            5.   The principal or other person in charge of the special
elementary school annually sends a report to the superintendent of the school
district in which the special elementary school is located indicating the total
number of students enrolled at the school, but otherwise the principal or other
person in charge does not report any other information or data to the
superintendent.
      (2)   Twenty-five mph in all other portions of a municipal corporation,
except on state routes outside business districts, through highways outside
business districts and alleys;
      (3)   Thirty-five mph on all state routes or through highways within
municipal corporations outside business districts, except as provided in
divisions (B)(4) and (B)(6) below;
      (4)   Fifty mph on controlled-access highways and expressways within
municipal corporations, except as provided in divisions (B)(12), (B)(13), (B)
(14), (B)(15) and (B)(16) below;
      (5)   Fifty-five mph on highways outside municipal corporations, other
than highways within island jurisdictions as provided in division (B)(8) below,
highways as provided in divisions (B)(9) and (10) below, and highways,
expressways and freeways as provided in divisions (B)(12), (B)(13), (B)(14) and
(B)(16) below;
      (6)   Fifty mph on state routes within municipal corporations outside
urban districts unless a lower prima-facie speed is established as further
provided in this section;
      (7)   Fifteen mph on all alleys within the municipal corporation;
      (8)   Thirty-five mph on highways outside municipal corporations that are
within an island jurisdiction;
      (9)   Thirty-five mph on through highways, except state routes, that are
outside municipal corporations and that are within a national park with
boundaries extending through two or more counties;
      (10)   Sixty mph on two-lane state routes outside municipal corporations
as established by the director under division (H)(2) below;
      (11)   Fifty-five mph on freeways with paved shoulders inside municipal
corporations, other than freeways as provided in divisions (B)(14) and (B)(16)
below;
      (12)   Sixty mph on rural expressways with traffic-control signals and on
all portions of rural divided highways, except as provided in divisions (B)(13)
and (B)(14) below;
      (13)   Sixty-five mph on all rural expressways without traffic-control
signals;
      (14)   Seventy mph on all rural freeways;
      (15)   Fifty-five mph on all portions of freeways or expressways in
congested areas as determined by the director and that are located within a
municipal corporation or within an interstate freeway outerbelt, except as
provided in division (B)(16) below; and
      (16)   Sixty-five mph on all portions of freeways or expressways without
traffic-control signals in urbanized areas.
   (C)   It is prima-facie unlawful for any person to exceed any of the speed
limitations in divisions (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)
(8) and (B)(9) above, or any declared or established pursuant to this section
by the director or local authorities and it is unlawful for any person to
exceed any of the speed limitations in division (D) below. No person shall be
convicted of more than one violation of this section for the same conduct,
although violations of more than one provision of this section may be charged
in the alternative in a single affidavit.
   (D)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, trackless trolley or
streetcar upon a street or highway as follows:
      (1)   At a speed exceeding 55 mph, except upon a two-lane state route as
provided in division (B)(10) above and upon a highway, expressway or freeway as
provided in divisions (B)(12), (B)(13), (B)(14) and (B)(16) above;
      (2)   At a speed exceeding 60 mph upon a two-lane state route as provided
in division (B)(10) above and upon a highway as provided in division (B)(12)
above;
      (3)   At a speed exceeding 65 mph upon an expressway as provided in
division (B)(13) or upon a freeway as provided in division (B)(16) above,
except upon a freeway as provided in division (B)(14) above;
      (4)   At a speed exceeding 70 mph upon a freeway as provided in division
(B)(14) above; and
      (5)   At a speed exceeding the posted speed limit upon a highway,
expressway or freeway for which the director has determined and declared a
speed limit pursuant to division (I)(2) or (L)(2) below.
   (E)   In every charge of violation of this section the affidavit and warrant
shall specify the time, place and speed at which the defendant is alleged to
have driven, and in charges made in reliance upon division (C) above also the
speed which division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8)
or (B)(9) above of, or a limit declared or established pursuant to, this
section declares is prima-facie lawful at the time and place of such alleged
violation, except that in affidavits where a person is alleged to have driven
at a greater speed than will permit the person to bring the vehicle to a stop
within the assured clear distance ahead the affidavit and warrant need not
specify the speed at which the defendant is alleged to have driven.
   (F)   When a speed in excess of both a prima-facie limitation and a
limitation in division (D) above is alleged, the defendant shall be charged in
a single affidavit, alleging a single act, with a violation indicated of both
divisions (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9)
above, or of a limit declared or established pursuant to this section by the
director or local authorities, and of the limitation in division (D) above. If
the court finds a violation of division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)
(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) above of, or a limit declared or established
pursuant to, this section has occurred, it shall enter a judgment of conviction
under such division and dismiss the charge under division (D) above. If it
finds no violation of division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6), (B)
(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) above of, or a limit declared or established pursuant to,
this section, it shall then consider whether the evidence supports a conviction
under division (D) above.
   (G)   Points shall be assessed for violation of a limitation under division
(D) above in accordance with R.C. § 4510.036.
   (H)   (1)   Whenever the director determines upon the basis of criteria
established by an engineering study, as defined by the director, that any speed
limit set forth in divisions (B)(1)(a) to (D) above is greater or less than is
reasonable or safe under the conditions found to exist at any portion of a
street or highway under the jurisdiction of the director, the director shall
determine and declare a reasonable and safe prima-facie speed limit, which
shall be effective when appropriate signs giving notice of it are erected at
the location.
      (2)   Whenever the director determines upon the basis of criteria
established by an engineering study, as defined by the director, that the speed
limit of 55 mph on a two-lane state route outside a municipal corporation is
less than is reasonable or safe under the conditions found to exist at that
portion of the state route, the director may determine and declare a speed
limit of 60 mph for that portion of the state route, which shall be effective
when appropriate signs giving notice of it are erected at the location.
      (3)   (a)   For purposes of the safe and orderly movement of traffic upon
any portion of a street or highway under the jurisdiction of the director, the
director may establish a variable speed limit that is different than the speed
limit established by or under this section on all or portions of interstate
670, interstate 275, and interstate 90 commencing at the intersection of that
interstate with interstate 71 and continuing to the border of the state with
the state of Pennsylvania. The director shall establish criteria for
determining the appropriate use of variable speed limits and shall establish
variable speed limits in accordance with the criteria. The director may
establish variable speed limits based upon the time of day, weather conditions,
traffic incidents or other factors that affect the safe speed on a street or
highway. The director shall not establish a variable speed limit that is based
on a particular type or class of vehicle. A variable speed limit established by
the director under this section is effective when appropriate signs giving
notice of the speed limit are displayed at the location.
         (b)   Except for variable speed limits established under division (H)
(3)(a) above, the director shall establish a variable speed limit under the
authority granted to the director by this section on not more than two
additional highways and only pursuant to criteria established in rules adopted
in accordance with R.C. Chapter 119. The rules shall be based on the criteria
described in division (H)(3)(a) above. The rules also shall establish the
parameters of any engineering study necessary for determining when variable
speed limits are appropriate.
      (4)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the authority
of the director to establish speed limits within a construction zone as
authorized under R.C. § 4511.98.
   (I)   (1)   Except as provided in divisions (I)(2), (J), (K) and (N) below,
whenever local authorities determine upon the basis of criteria established by
an engineering study, as defined by the director, that the speed permitted by
divisions (B)(1)(a) to (D) above, on any part of a highway under their
jurisdiction, is greater than is reasonable and safe under the conditions found
to exist at such location, the local authorities may by resolution request the
director to determine and declare a reasonable and safe prima-facie speed
limit. Upon receipt of such request the director may determine and declare a
reasonable and safe prima-facie speed limit at such location, and if the
director does so, then such declared speed limit shall become effective only
when appropriate signs giving notice thereof are erected at such location by
the local authorities. The director may withdraw the declaration of a prima-
facie speed limit whenever in the director’s opinion the altered prima-facie
speed limit becomes unreasonable. Upon such withdrawal, the declared prima-
facie speed limit shall become ineffective and the signs relating thereto shall
be immediately removed by the local authorities.
      (2)   A local authority may determine on the basis of criteria
established by an engineering study, as defined by the director, that the speed
limit of 65 or 70 mph on a portion of a freeway under its jurisdiction is
greater than is reasonable or safe under the conditions found to exist at that
portion of the freeway. If the local authority makes such a determination, the
local authority by resolution may request the director to determine and declare
a reasonable and safe speed limit of not less than 55 mph for that portion of
the freeway. If the director takes such action, the declared speed limit
becomes effective only when appropriate signs giving notice of it are erected
at such location by the local authority.
   (J)   (1)   Local authorities in their respective jurisdictions may
authorize by ordinance higher prima-facie speeds than those stated in this
section upon through highways, or upon highways or portions thereof where there
are no intersections, or between widely spaced intersections, provided signs
are erected giving notice of the authorized speed, but local authorities shall
not modify or alter the basic rule set forth in division (A) above or in any
event authorize by ordinance a speed in excess of the maximum speed permitted
by division (D) above for the specified type of highway.
      (2)   Alteration of prima-facie limits on state routes by local
authorities shall not be effective until the alteration has been approved by
the director. The director may withdraw approval of any altered prima-facie
speed limits whenever in the director’s opinion any altered prima-facie speed
becomes unreasonable, and upon such withdrawal, the altered prima-facie speed
shall become ineffective and the signs relating thereto shall be immediately
removed by the local authorities.
   (K)   (1)   As used in divisions (K)(1), (K)(2), (K)(3) and (K)(4) below,
UNIMPROVED HIGHWAY means a highway consisting of any of the following:
         (a)   Unimproved earth;
         (b)   Unimproved graded and drained earth; and
         (c)   Gravel.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (K)(4) and (K)(5) below,
whenever a board of township trustees determines upon the basis of criteria
established by an engineering study, as defined by the director, that the speed
permitted by division (B)(5) above on any part of an unimproved highway under
its jurisdiction and in the unincorporated territory of the township is greater
than is reasonable or safe under the conditions found to exist at the location,
the board may by resolution declare a reasonable and safe prima-facie speed
limit of 55 but not less than 25 mph. An altered speed limit adopted by a board
of township trustees under this division becomes effective when appropriate
traffic-control devices, as prescribed in R.C. § 4511.11, giving notice thereof
are erected at the location, which shall be no sooner than 60 days after
adoption of the resolution.
      (3)   (a)   Whenever, in the opinion of a board of township trustees, any
altered prima-facie speed limit established by the board under this division
becomes unreasonable, the board may adopt a resolution withdrawing the altered
prima-facie speed limit. Upon the adoption of such a resolution, the altered
prima-facie speed limit becomes ineffective and the traffic-control devices
relating thereto shall be immediately removed.
         (b)   Whenever a highway ceases to be an unimproved highway and the
board has adopted an altered prima-facie speed limit pursuant to division (K)
(2) above, the board shall, by resolution, withdraw the altered prima-facie
speed limit as soon as the highway ceases to be unimproved. Upon the adoption
of such a resolution, the altered prima-facie speed limit becomes ineffective
and the traffic-control devices relating thereto shall be immediately removed.
      (4)   (a)   If the boundary of two townships rests on the centerline of
an unimproved highway in unincorporated territory and both townships have
jurisdiction over the highway, neither of the boards of township trustees of
such townships may declare an altered prima-facie speed limit pursuant to
division (K)(2) above on the part of the highway under their joint jurisdiction
unless the boards of township trustees of both of the townships determine, upon
the basis of criteria established by an engineering study, as defined by the
director, that the speed permitted by division (B)(5) above is greater than is
reasonable or safe under the conditions found to exist at the location and both
boards agree upon a reasonable and safe prima-facie speed limit of less than 55
but not less than 25 mph for that location. If both boards so agree, each shall
follow the procedure specified in division (K)(2) above for altering the prima-
facie speed limit on the highway. Except as otherwise provided in division (K)
(4)(b) below, no speed limit altered pursuant to this division (K)(4)(a) may be
withdrawn unless the boards of township trustees of both townships determine
that the altered prima-facie speed limit previously adopted becomes
unreasonable and each board adopts a resolution withdrawing the altered prima-
facie speed limit pursuant to the procedure specified in division (K)(3)(a)
above.
         (b)   Whenever a highway described in division (K)(4)(a) above ceases
to be an unimproved highway and two boards of township trustees have adopted an
altered prima-facie speed limit pursuant to division (K)(4)(a) above, both
boards shall, by resolution, withdraw the altered prima-facie speed limit as
soon as the highway ceases to be unimproved. Upon the adoption of the
resolution, the altered prima-facie speed limit becomes ineffective and the
traffic-control devices relating thereto shall be immediately removed.
      (5)   As used in this division (K)(5):
         (a)   COMMERCIAL SUBDIVISION means any platted territory outside the
limits of a municipal corporation and fronting a highway where, for a distance
of 300 feet or more, the frontage is improved with buildings in use for
commercial purposes, or where the entire length of the highway is less than
three hundred feet long and the frontage is improved with buildings in use for
commercial purposes.
         (b)   1.   RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION means any platted territory outside
the limits of a municipal corporation and fronting a highway, where, for a
distance of three hundred feet or more, the frontage is improved with
residences or residences and buildings in use for business, or where the entire
length of the highway is less than three hundred feet long and the frontage is
improved with residences or residences and buildings in use for business.
            2.   Whenever a board of township trustees finds upon the basis of
criteria established by an engineering study, as defined by the director, that
the prima-facie speed permitted by this division (B)(5) above on any part of a
highway under its jurisdiction that is located in a commercial or residential
subdivision, except on highways or portions thereof at the entrances to which
vehicular traffic from the majority of intersecting highways is required to
yield the right-of-way to vehicles on such highways in obedience to stop or
yield signs or traffic-control signals, is greater than is reasonable and safe
under the conditions found to exist at the location, the board may by
resolution declare a reasonable and safe prima-facie speed limit of less than
fifty-five but not less than 25 mph at the location. An altered speed limit
adopted by a board of township trustees under this division shall become
effective when appropriate signs giving notice thereof are erected at the
location by the township. Whenever, in the opinion of a board of township
trustees, any altered prima-facie speed limit established by it under this
division becomes unreasonable, it may adopt a resolution withdrawing the
altered prima-facie speed, and upon such withdrawal, the altered prima-facie
speed shall become ineffective, and the signs relating thereto shall be
immediately removed by the township.
   (L)   (1)   The director of transportation, based upon an engineering study,
as defined by the director, of a highway, expressway or freeway described in
division (B)(12), (B)(13), (B)(14), (B)(15) or (B)(16) above, in consultation
with the director of public safety and, if applicable, the local authority
having jurisdiction over the studied highway, expressway or freeway, may
determine and declare that the speed limit established on such highway,
expressway or freeway under division (B)(12), (B)(13), (B)(14), (B)(15) or (B)
(16) of this section either is reasonable and safe or is more or less than that
which is reasonable and safe.
      (2)   If the established speed limit for a highway, expressway or freeway
studied pursuant to division (L)(1) above is determined to be more or less than
that which is reasonable and safe, the director of transportation, in
consultation with the director of public safety and, if applicable, the local
authority having jurisdiction over the studied highway, expressway or freeway,
shall determine and declare a reasonable and safe speed limit for that highway,
expressway or freeway.
   (M)   (1)   (a)   If the boundary of two local authorities rests on the
centerline of a highway and both authorities have jurisdiction over the
highway, the speed limit for the part of the highway within their joint
jurisdiction shall be either one of the following as agreed to by both
authorities:
            1.   Either prima-facie speed limit permitted by division (B)
above; and
            2.   An altered speed limit determined and posted in accordance
with this section.
         (b)   If the local authorities are unable to reach an agreement, the
speed limit shall remain as established and posted under this section.
      (2)   Neither local authority may declare an altered prima-facie speed
limit pursuant to this section on the part of the highway under their joint
jurisdiction unless both of the local authorities determine, upon the basis of
criteria established by an engineering study, as defined by the director, that
the speed permitted by this section is greater than is reasonable or safe under
the conditions found to exist at the location and both authorities agree upon a
uniform reasonable and safe prima-facie speed limit of less than 55 but not
less than 25 mph for that location. If both authorities so agree, each shall
follow the procedure specified in this section for altering the prima-facie
speed limit on the highway, and the speed limit for the part of the highway
within their joint jurisdiction shall be uniformly altered. No altered speed
limit may be withdrawn unless both local authorities determine that the altered
prima-facie speed limit previously adopted becomes unreasonable and each adopts
a resolution withdrawing the altered prima-facie speed limit pursuant to the
procedure specified in this section.
   (N)   The legislative authority of a municipal corporation or township in
which a boarding school is located, by resolution or ordinance, may establish a
boarding school zone. The legislative authority may alter the speed limit on
any street or highway within the boarding school zone and shall specify the
hours during which the altered speed limit is in effect. For purposes of
determining the boundaries of the boarding school zone, the altered speed limit
within the boarding school zone, and the hours the altered speed limit is in
effect, the legislative authority shall consult with the administration of the
boarding school and with the county engineer or other appropriate engineer, as
applicable. A boarding school zone speed limit becomes effective only when
appropriate signs giving notice thereof are erected at the appropriate
locations.
   (O)   As used in this section:
      COMMERCIAL BUS. A motor vehicle designed for carrying more than nine
passengers and used for the transportation of persons for compensation.
      DIVIDED. A roadway having two or more travel lanes for vehicles moving in
opposite directions and that is separated by a median of more than four feet,
excluding turn lanes.
      INTERSTATE SYSTEM. Has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. 101.
      NONCOMMERCIAL BUS. Includes, but is not limited to, a school bus or a
motor vehicle operated solely for the transportation of persons associated with
a charitable or nonprofit organization.
      OUTERBELT. A portion of a freeway that is part of the interstate system
and is located in the outer vicinity of a major municipal corporation or group
of municipal corporations, as designated by the director.
      RURAL. An area outside urbanized areas and outside of a business or urban
district, and areas that extend within urbanized areas where the roadway
characteristics remain mostly unchanged from those outside the urbanized areas.
      URBANIZED AREA. Has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. 101.
   (P)   (1)   A violation of any provision of this section is one of the
following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (P)(1)(b), (P)(1)(c),
(P)(2) and (P)(3) below, a minor misdemeanor;
         (b)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of any provision of this
section or of any provision of a municipal ordinance that is substantially
similar to any provision of this section, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
and
         (c)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of any
provision of this section or of any provision of a municipal ordinance that is
substantially similar to any provision of this section, a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
      (2)   If the offender has not previously been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of any provision of this section or of any provision of a
municipal ordinance that is substantially similar to this section and operated
a motor vehicle faster than 35 mph in a business district of a municipal
corporation, faster than 50 mph in other portions of a municipal corporation,
or faster than 35 mph in a school zone during recess or while children are
going to or leaving school during the school’s opening or closing hours, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (3)   Notwithstanding division (P)(1) above, if the offender operated a
motor vehicle in a construction zone where a sign was then posted in accordance
with R.C. § 4511.98, the court, in addition to all other penalties provided by
law, shall impose upon the offender a fine of two times the usual amount
imposed for the violation. No court shall impose a fine of two times the usual
amount imposed for the violation upon an offender if the offender alleges, in
an affidavit filed with the court prior to the offender’s sentencing, that the
offender is indigent and is unable to pay the fine imposed pursuant to this
division and if the court determines that the offender is an indigent person
and unable to pay the fine.
      (4)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under R.C. §
4511.991.
(R.C. § 4511.21) (Prior Code, § 7.04.01)
§ 72.002 POSTED SPEED LIMITS.
   Wherever appropriate signs are erected giving notice that the speed limits
established in the preceding section have been altered either lower or higher,
in accordance with the provisions of the Ohio Revised Code, it shall be prima
facie unlawful for any person to exceed any such posted speed limits.
(Prior Code, § 7.04.02)
§ 72.003 DRAG RACING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section, STREET RACING means the operation of two or
more vehicles from a point side by side at accelerating speeds in a competitive
attempt to outdistance each other, or the operation of one or more vehicles
over a common selected course, from the same point to the same point, wherein
timing is made of the participating vehicles involving competitive
accelerations or speeds.
      (1)   Persons rendering assistance in any manner to such competitive use
of vehicles shall be equally charged as the participants.
      (2)   The operation of two or more vehicles side by side either at speeds
in excess of prima facie lawful speeds established by R.C. § 4511.21(B)(1)(a)
through (B)(9) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or rapidly
accelerating from a common starting point to a speed in excess of such prima
facie lawful speeds shall be prima facie evidence of street racing.
   (B)   No person shall participate in street racing upon any public road,
street or highway in this municipality.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of street racing, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition to any other sanctions, the court
shall suspend the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident operating
privileges for not less than 30 days or more than three years. No judge shall
suspend the first 30 days of any suspension of an offender’s license, permit,
or privilege imposed under this division.
(R.C. § 4511.251) (Prior Code, § 7.04.03)
§ 72.004 SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall stop or operate a vehicle at such an unreasonably slow
speed as to impede or block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic,
except when stopping or reduced speed is necessary for safe operation or to
comply with law.
   (B)   When, in accordance with R.C. § 4511.22(B), the minimum speed limit of
a controlled access highway, expressway or freeway has been declared and the
appropriate signs giving notice have been erected as required, the operator of
motor vehicles shall be governed by the speed limitations set forth on such
signs. No person shall operate a motor vehicle below the speed limits posted
upon such signs except when necessary for safe operation or in compliance with
law.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall operate an under speed motor vehicle, including,
but not limited to, a golf cart, on any public roadway where the posted speed
limit for such roadway is greater than 35 mph, except when crossing such
roadway is necessary to comply with mis section.
      (2)   No person shall operate an under speed motor vehicle on any public
sidewalk or other leisure path.
      (3)   For purposes of this section, an under speed vehicle is any four
wheeled vehicle, other than a truck, that is either originally designed and
constructed with a top attainable speed of 25 mph or less, or is not originally
designed and constructed for operation on a street or highway.
   (D)   In a case involving a violation of this section, the trier of fact, in
determining whether the vehicle was being operated at an unreasonably slow
speed, shall consider the capabilities of the vehicle and its operator.
   (E)   Prior to operation on a city street, a golf cart or other under speed
motor vehicle shall be inspected by the City Police Department for compliance
with state minimum liability insurance and R.C. §§ 4503.21, 4507.02, 4509.101,
4513.05, 4513.06, 4513.071, 4513.16, 4513.21, 4513.23, 4513.24 and 4513.261 and
charged a $50 inspection fee.
   (F)   Operation of a golf cart, or under speed motor vehicle, on city
streets shall comply with all motor vehicle laws set forth in the Ohio Revised
Code and the city code, including having a valid operator’s license.
   (G)   Whosoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If,
within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of,
or pleaded guilty to, a motor vehicle or traffic offense, violation of this
section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of, or pleaded guilty to,
two or more motor vehicle or traffic offenses, violation of this section is a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(Prior Code, § 7.04.04) (Ord. 50-16, passed 12-26-2016)
§ 72.005 SPEED REGULATIONS ON BRIDGES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle over any bridge or other
elevated structure constituting a part of a highway at a speed which is greater
than the maximum speed that can be maintained with safety to such bridge or
structure, when such structure is posted with signs as provided in this
section.
      (2)   The Department of Transportation upon request from any local
authority shall, or upon its own initiative may, conduct an investigation of
any bridge or other elevated structure constituting a part of a highway, and if
it finds that such structure cannot with safety withstand traffic traveling at
the speed otherwise permissible under this traffic code, the Department shall
determine and declare the maximum speed of traffic which such structure can
withstand, and shall cause or permit suitable signs stating such maximum speed
to be erected and maintained at a distance of a least 100 feet before each end
of the structure.
      (3)   Upon the trial of any person charged with a violation of this
section, proof of such determination of the maximum speed by the Department and
the existence of such signs shall constitute prima facie evidence of the
maximum speed which can be maintained with safety to such bridge or structure.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.23) (Prior Code, § 7.04.05)
§ 72.006 PROPER LANE FOR TRAVEL.
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction, or when making a left turn under the rules governing such movements;
      (2)   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the highway; provided any person so doing shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the highway within such distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard;
      (3)   When driving upon a roadway divided into three or more marked lanes
for traffic under the rules applicable thereon;
      (4)   When driving upon a roadway designated and posted with signs for
one-way traffic; and
      (5)   When otherwise directed by a police officer or traffic-control
device.
   (B)   (1)   Upon all roadways any vehicle proceeding at less than the
prevailing and lawful speed of traffic at the time and place and under the
conditions then existing shall be driven in the right-hand lane then available
for traffic, and far enough to the right to allow passing by faster vehicles if
such passing is safe and reasonable, except under any of the following
circumstances:
         (a)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction;
         (b)   When preparing for a left turn; and
         (c)   When the driver must necessarily drive in a lane other than the
right-hand lane to continue on the driver’s intended route.
      (2)   Nothing in division (B)(1) above requires a driver of a slower
vehicle to compromise the driver’s safety to allow overtaking by a faster
vehicle.
   (C)   Upon any roadway having four or more lanes for moving traffic and
providing for two-way movement of traffic, no vehicle shall be driven to the
left of the center line of the roadway, except when authorized by official
traffic-control devices designating certain lanes to the left of the center of
the roadway for use by traffic not otherwise permitted to use the lanes, or
except as permitted under division (A)(2) above. This division shall not be
construed as prohibiting the crossing of the center line in making a left turn
into or from an alley, private road or driveway.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.25) (Prior Code, § 7.04.06)
§ 72.007 VEHICLES PASSING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   Operators of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass
each other to the right, and upon roadways having width for not more than one
line of traffic in each direction, each operator shall give to the other one-
half of the main traveled portion of the roadway or as nearly one-half as is
reasonably possible.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.26) (Prior Code, § 7.04.07)
§ 72.008 RULES GOVERNING OVERTAKING AND PASSING VEHICLES.
   (A)   The following rules govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles
proceeding in the same direction:
      (1)   The operator of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in
the same direction shall, except as provided in division (A)(3) below, signal
to the vehicle to be overtaken, shall pass to the left thereof at a safe
distance, and shall not again drive to the right side of the roadway until
safely clear of the overtaken vehicle. When a motor vehicle overtakes and
passes a bicycle or electric bicycle, three feet or greater is considered a
safe passing distance.
      (2)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
operator of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle at the latter’s audible signal, and the operator shall not
increase the speed of the operator’s vehicle until completely passed by the
overtaking vehicle.
      (3)   The operator of a vehicle overtaking and passing another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction on a divided highway as defined in R.C. §
4511.35, a limited access highway as defined in R.C. § 5511.02 or a highway
with four or more traffic lanes is not required to signal audibly to the
vehicle being overtaken and passed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.27) (Prior Code, § 7.04.08)
§ 72.009 OVERTAKING AND PASSING ON THE RIGHT.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass on the right of another
vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
or
      (2)   Upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width for
two or more lines of vehicles moving lawfully in the direction being traveled
by the overtaking vehicle.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle only
under conditions permitting the movement in safety. The movement shall not be
made by driving off the roadway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.28) (Prior Code, § 7.04.09)
§ 72.010 DRIVING TO LEFT OF CENTER LINE.
   (A)   (1)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left of the center of the
roadway in overtaking and passing traffic proceeding in the same direction,
unless the left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a
sufficient distance ahead to permit the overtaking and passing to be completely
made without interfering with the safe operation of any traffic approaching
from the opposite direction or any traffic overtaken.
      (2)   In every event, the overtaking vehicle must return to an authorized
lane of travel as soon as practicable, and in the event the passing movement
involves the use of a lane authorized for the traffic approaching from the
opposite direction, before coming within 200 feet of any approaching vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.29) (Prior Code, § 7.04.10)
§ 72.011 DRIVING TO LEFT OF CENTER LINE FORBIDDEN, WHEN.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven upon the left side of the roadway under the
following conditions:
      (1)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
highway, where the operator’s view is obstructed within such a distance as to
create a hazard in the event traffic might approach from the opposite
direction;
      (2)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of any
bridge, viaduct or tunnel; or
      (3)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any intersection
or railroad grade crossing.
   (B)   This section does not apply to vehicles upon a one-way roadway, upon a
roadway where traffic is lawfully directed to be driven to the left side, or
under the conditions described in R.C. § 4511.25(A)(2) or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.30) (Prior Code, § 7.04.11)
§ 72.012 HAZARDOUS ZONES.
   (A)   (1)   The Department of Transportation may determine those portions of
any state highway where overtaking and passing other traffic or driving to the
left of the center or center line of the roadway would be especially hazardous,
and may, by appropriate signs or markings on the highway, indicate the
beginning and end of such zones.
      (2)   When signs or markings are in place and clearly visible, every
operator of a vehicle shall obey the directions of the signs or markings,
notwithstanding the distances set out in R.C. § 4511.30.
   (B)   Division (A) above does not apply when all of the following apply.
      (1)   The slower vehicle is proceeding at less than half the speed of the
speed limit applicable to that location.
      (2)   The faster vehicle is capable of overtaking and passing the slower
vehicle without exceeding the speed limit.
      (3)   There is sufficient clear sight distance to the left of the center
or center line of the roadway to meet the overtaking and passing provisions of
R.C. § 4511.29, considering the speed of the slower vehicle.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.31) (Prior Code, § 7.04.12)
§ 72.013 ONE-WAY TRAFFIC.
   (A)   Upon a roadway designated and posted with signs for one-way traffic, a
vehicle shall be driven only in the direction designated.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.32) (Prior Code, § 7.04.13)
§ 72.014 PASSING TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven only to the
right of the rotary traffic island.
(R.C. § 4511.32) (Prior Code, § 7.04.14)
§ 72.015 MULTIPLE LANE TRAFFIC.
   (A)   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for traffic, or wherever within the municipality traffic is lawfully
moving in two or more substantially continuous lines in the same direction, the
following rules apply.
      (1)   A vehicle shall be driven, as nearly as is practicable, entirely
within a single lane or line of traffic and shall not be moved from the lane or
line until the driver has first ascertained that the movement can be made with
safety.
      (2)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes and provides for
the two-way movement of traffic, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center
lane, except when overtaking and passing another vehicle where the roadway is
clearly visible and the center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance,
or when preparing for a left turn, or where the center lane is at the time
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the direction the vehicle is
proceeding, and is posted with signs to give notice of such allocation.
      (3)   Official signs may be erected directing specified traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction, regardless of the center of the roadway, or restricting
the use of a particular lane to only buses during certain hours or during all
hours, and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of such signs.
      (4)   Official traffic-control devices may be installed prohibiting the
changing of lanes on sections of roadway, and drivers of vehicles shall obey
the directions of every such device.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.33) (Prior Code, § 7.04.15)
§ 72.016 SPACE BETWEEN MOVING VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle
more closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of
the vehicle and the traffic upon and the condition of the highway.
      (2)   The driver of any truck, or motor vehicle drawing another vehicle,
when traveling upon a roadway outside a business or residence district, shall
maintain a sufficient space, whenever conditions permit, between the vehicle
and another vehicle ahead so an overtaking motor vehicle may enter and occupy
the space without danger. This division does not prevent overtaking and passing
nor does it apply to any lane specially designated for use by trucks.
      (3)   Motor vehicles being driven upon any roadway outside of a business
or residence district in a caravan or motorcade shall maintain a sufficient
space between the vehicles so an overtaking vehicle may enter and occupy the
space without danger. This division shall not apply to funeral processions.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.34) (Prior Code, § 7.04.16)
§ 72.017 DRIVING ON DIVIDED ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Whenever any highway has been divided into two roadways by an
intervening space, or by a physical barrier, or a clearly indicated dividing
section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle shall be
driven only upon the right-hand roadway, and no vehicle shall be driven over,
across or within any dividing space, barrier or section, except through an
opening, crossover or intersection established by public authority. This
section does not prohibit the occupancy of the dividing space, barrier or
section for the purpose of an emergency stop, or in compliance with an order of
a police officer.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.35) (Prior Code, § 7.04.17)
§ 72.018 TURN, PROPER LANE.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall be
governed by the following rules:
      (1)   Approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway;
      (2)   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both
directions on each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left
turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
center line thereof and by passing to the right of the center line where it
enters the intersection, and, after entering the intersection, the left turn
shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the center line
of the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be made
in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the
intersection; and
      (3)   At any intersection where traffic is restricted to one direction on
one or more of the roadways, the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at
any such intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand
lane lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of the
vehicle, and, after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so
as to leave the intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the left hand lane
of the roadway being entered lawfully available to traffic moving in that lane.
   (B)   The Department of Transportation and local authorities may cause
markers, buttons or signs to be placed within or adjacent to intersections, and
thereby require and direct that a different course from that specified in this
section be traveled by vehicles turning at an intersection, and when markers,
buttons or signs are so placed, no operator of a vehicle shall turn the vehicle
at an intersection other than as directed and required by the markers, buttons
or signs.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.36) (Prior Code, § 7.04.18)
§ 72.019 TURNING IN ROAD PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as provided in R.C. § 4511.13 and division (B) below, no
vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon any
curve, or upon the approach to or near the crest of a grade, if such vehicle
cannot be seen within 500 feet by the driver of any other vehicle approaching
from either direction.
   (B)   The driver of an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call, may turn the vehicle so as to proceed in the
opposite direction. This division applies only when the emergency vehicle or
public safety vehicle is responding to an emergency call, is equipped with and
displaying at least one flashing, rotating or oscillating light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle, and when the driver of the vehicle is giving an audible signal by
siren, exhaust whistle or bell. This division does not relieve the driver of an
emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.37) (Prior Code, § 7.04.19)
§ 72.020 STARTING VEHICLES.
   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing or parked until
the movement can be made with reasonable safety.
(R.C. § 4511.38) (Prior Code, § 7.04.22)
§ 72.021 LIMITATIONS ON BACKING.
   (A)   (1)   Before backing, operators of vehicles shall give ample warning,
and while backing they shall exercise vigilance not to injure person or
property on the street or highway.
      (2)   No person shall back a motor vehicle on a freeway, except:
         (a)   In a rest area;
         (b)   In the performance of public works or official duties; and
         (c)   As a result of an emergency caused by an accident or breakdown
of a motor vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.38) (Prior Code, § 7.04.23)
§ 72.022 SIGNALS BEFORE STOPPING, TURNING OR CHANGING COURSE.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall turn a vehicle or move right or left upon a
highway unless and until the person has exercised due care to ascertain that
the movement can be made with reasonable safety, nor without giving an
appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter provided.
      (2)   When required, a signal of intention to turn or move right or left
shall be given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by
the vehicle before turning, except that in the case of a person operating a
bicycle or electric bicycle, the signal shall be made not less than one time
but is not required to be continuous. A bicycle or electric bicycle operator is
not required to make a signal if the bicycle is in a designated turn lane, and
a signal shall not be given when the operator’s hands are needed for the safe
operation of the bicycle or electric bicycle.
      (3)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear, when there is opportunity to
give a signal.
      (4)   Any stop or turn signal required by this section shall be given
either by means of the hand and arm, or by signal lights that clearly indicate
to both approaching and following traffic the intention to turn or move right
or left, except that any motor vehicle in use on a highway shall be equipped
with, and the required signal shall be given by, signal lights when the
distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the left outside
limit of the body, cab or load of such motor vehicle exceeds 24 inches, or when
the distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the rear limit
of the body or load thereof exceeds 14 feet, whether a single vehicle or a
combination of vehicles.
      (5)   The signal lights required by this section shall not be flashed on
one side only on a disabled vehicle, flashed as a courtesy or “do pass” signal
to operators of other vehicles approaching from the rear, nor be flashed on one
side only of a parked vehicle except as may be necessary for compliance with
this section.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.39) (Prior Code, § 7.04.24)
§ 72.023 HAND AND ARM SIGNALS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, all signals required by the
provisions of this traffic code, when given by hand and arm, shall be given
from the left side of the vehicle in the following manner, and the signals
shall indicate as follows:
      (1)   Left turn, hand and arm extended horizontally;
      (2)   Right turn, hand and arm extended upward; and
      (3)   Stop or decrease speed, hand and arm extended downward.
   (B)   As an alternative to division (A)(2) above, a person operating a
bicycle or electric bicycle may give a right turn signal by extending the right
hand and arm horizontally and to the right side of the bicycle or electric
bicycle.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.40) (Prior Code, § 7.04.25)
§ 72.024 INTERSECTIONS TO BE KEPT CLEAR.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle the driver is operating without obstructing the passage
of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic-control signal
indication to proceed.
(Prior Code, § 7.04.30)
§ 72.025 SPEED LIMITS; EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The prima facie speed limitations set forth in R.C. § 4511.21 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance do not apply to emergency vehicles
or public safety vehicles when they are responding to emergency calls and are
equipped with and displaying at least one flashing, rotating or oscillating
light visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet
to the front of the vehicle, and when the drivers thereof sound audible signals
by bell, siren or exhaust whistle. This section does not relieve the driver of
an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons using the street or highway.
(R.C. § 4511.24) (Prior Code, § 7.04.32)
§ 72.026 EMERGENCY VEHICLES TO PROCEED CAUTIOUSLY PAST RED OR STOP SIGNAL.
   (A)   The driver of any emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call, upon approaching a red or stop signal or any
stop sign, shall slow down as necessary for safety to traffic, but may proceed
cautiously past the red or stop sign or signal with due regard for the safety
of all persons using the street or highway.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.03) (Prior Code, § 7.04.33)
§ 72.027 OPERATING MOTORCYCLE, NUMBER OF PASSENGERS.
   (A)   As used in this section, SNOWMOBILE has the same meaning as given that
term in R.C. § 4519.01.
   (B)   (1)   No person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall ride
other than upon or astride the permanent and regular seat attached thereto or
carry any other person upon such bicycle or electric bicycle other than upon a
firmly attached and regular seat thereon, and no person shall ride upon a
bicycle or electric bicycle other than upon such a firmly attached and regular
seat.
      (2)   No person operating a motorcycle shall ride other than upon or
astride the permanent and regular seat or saddle attached thereto, or carry any
other person upon such motorcycle other than upon a firmly attached and regular
seat or saddle thereon, and no person shall ride upon a motorcycle other than
upon such a firmly attached and regular seat or saddle.
      (3)   No person shall ride upon a motorcycle that is equipped with a
saddle other than while sitting astride the saddle, facing forward, with one
leg on each side of the motorcycle.
      (4)   No person shall ride upon a motorcycle that is equipped with a seat
other than while sitting upon the seat.
      (5)   No person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall carry any
package, bundle or article that prevents the driver from keeping at least one
hand upon the handlebars.
      (6)   No bicycle, electric bicycle or motorcycle shall be used to carry
more persons at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
No motorcycle shall be operated on a highway when the handlebars rise higher
than the shoulders of the operator when the operator is seated in the
operator’s seat or saddle.
   (C)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(3) below, no person shall
operate or be a passenger on a snowmobile or motorcycle without using safety
glasses or other protective eye device.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (C)(3) below, no person who is under
the age of 18 years, or who holds a motorcycle operator’s endorsement or
license bearing a “novice” designation that is currently in effect as provided
in R.C. § 4507.13, shall operate a motorcycle on a highway, or be a passenger
on a motorcycle, unless wearing a protective helmet on the person’s head, and
no other person shall be a passenger on a motorcycle operated by such a person
unless similarly wearing a protective helmet.
      (3)   The helmet, safety glasses or other protective eye device shall
conform with rules adopted by the State Director of Public Safety. The
provisions of this paragraph or a violation thereof shall not be used in the
trial of any civil action.
      (4)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(3) below, no person shall
operate a motorcycle with a valid temporary instruction permit and temporary
instruction permit identification card issued by the Registrar of Motor
Vehicles pursuant to R.C. § 4507.05 unless the person, at the time of such
operation, is wearing on the person’s head a protective helmet that conforms
with rules adopted by the State Director of Public Safety.
         (b)   No person shall operate a motorcycle with a valid temporary
instruction permit and temporary instruction permit identification card issued
by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles pursuant to R.C. § 4507.05 in any of the
following circumstances:
            1.   At any time when lighted lights are required by R.C. § 4513.03
(A)(1);
            2.   While carrying a passenger; and
            3.   On any limited access highway or heavily congested roadway.
      (5)   Divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2)(a) above do not apply to a person who
operates or is a passenger in an autocycle or cab-enclosed motorcycle when the
occupant compartment top is in place enclosing the occupants.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting the carrying
of a child in a seat or trailer that is designed for carrying children and is
firmly attached to the bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (B) or (C)(1) or (C)(2) above is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If,
within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of
or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates division (B) or (C)(1) or (C)(2) above is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses,
whoever violates division (B) or (C)(1) or (C)(2) above is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.53) (Prior Code, § 7.04.64)
§ 72.028 RIDING MOTORCYCLES ABREAST.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle upon a roadway
shall ride as near to the right side of the roadway as practicable obeying all
traffic rules applicable to vehicles and exercising due care when passing a
standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Persons riding bicycles, electric bicycles or motorcycles upon a
roadway shall ride not more than two abreast in a single lane, except on paths
or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, electric
bicycles or motorcycles.
   (C)   This section does not require a person operating a bicycle or electric
bicycle to ride at the edge of the roadway when it is unreasonable or unsafe to
do so. Conditions that may require riding away from the edge of the roadway
include when necessary to avoid fixed or moving objects, parked or moving
vehicles, surface hazards, or if it otherwise is unsafe or impracticable to do
so, including if the lane is too narrow for the bicycle or electric bicycle and
an overtaking vehicle to travel safely side by side within the lane.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.55) (Prior Code, § 7.04.65)
§ 72.029 SIGNAL DEVICES ON BICYCLE.
   (A)   Every bicycle or electric bicycle when in use at the times specified
in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance shall be
equipped with the following:
      (1)   A lamp mounted on the front of either the bicycle or electric
bicycle or the operator that shall emit a white light visible from a distance
of at least 500 feet to the front and 300 feet to the sides. A generator-
powered lamp that emits light only when the bicycle or electric bicycle is
moving may be used to meet this requirement.
      (2)   A red reflector on the rear that shall be visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet to the rear when directly in front of
lawful lower beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle; and
      (3)   A lamp emitting either flashing or steady red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear shall be used in addition to the red
reflector. If the red lamp performs as a reflector in that it is visible as
specified in division (A)(2) of this section, the red lamp may serve as the
reflector and a separate reflector is not required.
   (B)   Additional lamps and reflectors may be used in addition to those
required under division (A) above, except that red lamps and red reflectors
shall not be used on the front of the bicycle or electric bicycle and white
lamps and white reflectors shall not be used on the rear of the bicycle or
electric bicycle.
   (C)   A bicycle or electric bicycle may be equipped with a device capable of
giving an audible signal, except that a bicycle or electric bicycle shall not
be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a bicycle or electric bicycle
any siren or whistle.
   (D)   Every bicycle and electric bicycle shall be equipped with an adequate
brake when used on a street or highway.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.56) (Prior Code, § 7.04.66)
§ 72.030 DISTRACTED DRIVING.
   (A)   As used in this section and each section referenced in division (B)
below, all of the following apply:
      DISTRACTED. Doing either of the following while operating a vehicle:
         (a)   1.   Using a handheld electronic wireless communications device,
as defined in R.C. § 4511.204, except when utilizing any of the following:
               a.   The device’s speakerphone function;
               b.   A wireless technology standard for exchanging data over
short distances;
               c.   A “voice-operated or hands-free” device that allows the
person to use the electronic wireless communications device without the use of
either hand except to activate, deactivate or initiate a feature or function;
and
               d.   Any device that is physically or electronically integrated
into the motor vehicle.
            2.   Engaging in any activity that is not necessary to the
operation of a vehicle and impairs, or reasonably would be expected to impair,
the ability of the operator to drive the vehicle safely.
         (b)   DISTRACTED does not include operating a motor vehicle while
wearing an earphone or earplug over or in both ears at the same rime. A person
who so wears earphones or earplugs may be charged with a violation of R.C. §
4511.84.
         (c)   DISTRACTED does not include conducting any activity while
operating a utility service vehicle or a vehicle for or on behalf of a utility;
provided that the driver of the vehicle is acting in response to an emergency,
power outage or a circumstance affecting the health or safety of individuals.
            1.   As used in division (A)(3) above:
               UTILITY. An entity specified in R.C. § 4905.03(A), (C), (D), (E)
or (G).
               UTILITY SERVICE VEHICLE. A vehicle owned or operated by a
utility.
   (B)   If the offender violates any section of this chapter, while distracted
and the distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the
violation, the offender is subject to the applicable penalty for the violation
and, notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28, is subject to an additional fine of not
more than $100 as follows:
      (1)   (a)   Subject to Traffic Rule 13, if a law enforcement officer
issues an offender a ticket, citation or summons for a violation of any of the
aforementioned sections of the Ohio Revised Code that indicates that the
offender was distracted while committing the violation and that the distracting
activity was a contributing factor to the commission of the violation, the
offender may enter a written plea of guilty and waive the offender’s right to
contest the ticket, citation or summons in a trial provided that the offender
pays the total amount of the fine established for the violation and pays the
additional fine of $100.
         (b)   In lieu of payment of the additional fine of $100, the offender
instead may elect to attend a distracted driving safety course, the duration
and contents of which shall be established by the Director of Public Safety. If
the offender attends and successfully completes the course, the offender shall
be issued written evidence that the offender successfully completed the course.
The offender shall be required to pay the total amount of the fine established
for the violation but shall not be required to pay the additional fine of $100,
so long as the offender submits to the court both the offender’s payment in
full and such written evidence.
(Ord. 08-19, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 72.031 DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall at any time be driven through or within a safety
zone.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender commits the offense while
distracted and the distracting activity is a contributing factor to the
commission of the offense, the offender is subject to the additional fine
established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.60)
RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 72.045 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection from different
streets or highways at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle
on the left shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
   (B)   The right-of-way rule declared in division (A) above is modified at
through highways and otherwise as stated in this traffic code or R.C. Chapter
4511.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.41) (Prior Code, § 7.04.26)
§ 72.046 RIGHT-OF-WAY WHEN VEHICLE TURNING LEFT.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an
intersection or into an alley, private road or driveway shall yield the right-
of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is within
the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.42) (Prior Code, § 7.04.27)
§ 72.047 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT THROUGH HIGHWAYS; STOP SIGNS; YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   Except when directed to proceed by a law enforcement officer, every
driver of a vehicle approaching a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line, but, if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or, if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering it. After having stopped, the driver shall yield the right-of-
way to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another roadway so
closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the time the driver is
moving across or within the intersection or junction of roadways.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall slow down to a
speed reasonable for the existing conditions, and if required for safety to
stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but, if none, before entering
the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or, if none, then at the
point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering it. After
slowing, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection or junction of roadways. Whenever a driver is involved in a
collision with a vehicle in the intersection or junction of roadways, after
driving past a yield sign without stopping, the collision shall be prima facie
evidence of the driver’s failure to yield the right-of-way.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.43) (Prior Code, § 7.04.28)
§ 72.048 RIGHT-OF-WAY ON PUBLIC HIGHWAY.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from any
place other than another roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all traffic
approaching on the roadway to be entered or crossed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender violates division (A) above while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.44) (Prior Code, § 7.04.29)
§ 72.049 EMERGENCY VEHICLES; RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Upon the approach of a public safety vehicle or coroner’s vehicle,
equipped with at least one flashing, rotating or oscillating light visible
under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of
the vehicle, and the driver is giving an audible signal by siren, exhaust
whistle or bell, no driver of any other vehicle shall fail to yield the right-
of-way, immediately drive if practical to a position parallel to and as close
as possible to, the right edge or curb of the highway clear of any
intersection, and stop and remain in that position until the public safety
vehicle or coroner’s vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a
police officer.
   (B)   This section does not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle or
coroner’s vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons and property upon the highway.
   (C)   This section applies to a coroner’s vehicle only when the vehicle is
operated in accordance with R.C. § 4513.171, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance. As used in this section, CORONER’S VEHICLE means a vehicle
used by a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator that is equipped
with a flashing, oscillating or rotating red or blue light and a siren, exhaust
whistle or bell capable of giving an audible signal.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division or division (E) below,
whoever violates division (A) above is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree on a first offense. On a second offense within one year after the first
offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree, and, on
each subsequent offense within one year after the first offense, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 4511.45)
   (E)   (1)   When the failure of a motor vehicle operator to yield the right-
of-way to a public safety vehicle as required by division (A) above impedes the
ability of the public safety vehicle to respond to an emergency, any emergency
personnel in the public safety vehicle may report the license plate number and
a general description of the vehicle and the operator of the vehicle to the law
enforcement agency exercising jurisdiction over the area where the alleged
violation occurred.
      (2)   (a)   Upon receipt of a report under division (E)(1) above, the law
enforcement agency may conduct an investigation to attempt to determine or
confirm the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time of the alleged
violation.
         (b)   If the identity of the operator at the time of an alleged
violation of division (A) above is established, the law enforcement agency has
probable cause to issue either a written warning or a citation for that
violation, and the agency shall issue a written warning or a citation to the
operator.
         (c)   If the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time of
the alleged violation cannot be established, the law enforcement agency may
issue a written warning to the person who owned the vehicle at the time of the
alleged violation. However, in the case of a leased or rented vehicle, the law
enforcement agency shall issue the written warning to the person who leased or
rented the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A) above based on a report filed under
division (E)(1) above is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined $150.
If a person who is issued a citation for a violation of division (A) above
based on a report filed under division (E)(1) above does not enter a written
plea of guilty and does not waive the person’s right to contest the citation
but instead appears in person in the proper court to answer the charge, the
trier of fact cannot find beyond a reasonable doubt that the person committed
that violation unless the emergency personnel who filed the report appears in
person in the court and testifies.
      (4)   As used in this division (E):
         LICENSE PLATE. Includes any temporary motor vehicle license
registration issued under R.C. § 4503.182 or similar law of another
jurisdiction.
         PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. Does not include an unmarked public safety
vehicle or a vehicle used by a public law enforcement officer or other person
sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state or a vehicle used
by the motor carrier enforcement unit for the enforcement of orders and rules
of the public utilities commission.
(R.C. § 4511.454) (Prior Code, § 7.04.34)
§ 72.050 PEDESTRIANS YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY TO PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of a public safety vehicle, as stated in
R.C. § 4511.45 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, every
pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to the public safety vehicle.
   (B)   This section shall not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle
from the duty to exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.452) (Prior Code, § 7.04.35)
§ 72.051 FUNERAL PROCESSION HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   As used in this section, FUNERAL PROCESSION means two or more vehicles
accompanying the cremated remains or the body of a deceased person in the
daytime when each of the vehicles has its headlights lighted and is displaying
a purple and white or an orange and white pennant attached to each vehicle in
such a manner as to be clearly visible to traffic approaching from any
direction.
   (B)   (1)   Excepting public safety vehicles proceeding in accordance with
R.C. § 4511.45 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or when
directed otherwise by a police officer, pedestrians and the operators of all
vehicles shall yield the right-of-way to each vehicle that is a part of a
funeral procession.
      (2)   Whenever the lead vehicle in a funeral procession lawfully enters
an intersection, the remainder of the vehicles in the procession may continue
to follow the lead vehicle through the intersection, notwithstanding any
traffic-control devices or right-of-way provisions of the Ohio Revised Code,
provided that the operator of each vehicle exercises due care to avoid
colliding with any other vehicle or pedestrian.
   (C)   No person shall operate any vehicle as a part of a funeral procession
without having the headlights of the vehicle lighted and without displaying a
purple and white or an orange and white pennant in such a manner as to be
clearly visible to traffic approaching from any direction.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.451) (Prior Code, § 7.04.38)
§ 72.052 PROCESSIONS AND PARADES; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Funeral or other processions and parades shall not be conducted
without having first procured a written permit from the Chief of Police,
designating the date, time and exact route and direction of march or travel for
which the permit is allowed.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or participate in any
procession or parade in violation of this section; except that the provisions
hereof shall not apply to the marching or maneuvering of members of the
military forces of the United States.
(Prior Code, § 7.04.39)
§ 72.053 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS TO USE RIGHT SIDE OF STREET.
   Funeral processions and each vehicle comprising the same shall, at all
times, be kept as near to the right curb of the roadway as is practicable.
(Prior Code, § 7.04.40)
§ 72.054 PEDESTRIAN ON CROSSWALK HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   When traffic-control signals are not in place, not in operation or are
not clearly assigning the right-of-way, the driver of a vehicle shall yield the
right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if need be to so yield, or, if required
by R.C. § 4511.132 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, to a
pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk when the pedestrian is upon
the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is traveling, or when the
pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite half of the roadway as
to be in danger.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and
walk or run into the path of a vehicle which is so close as to constitute an
immediate hazard.
   (C)   Division (A) above does not apply under the conditions stated in R.C.
§ 4511.48(B), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 4511.46) (Prior Code, § 7.04.41)
§ 72.055 PASSING STOPPED VEHICLES AT CROSSWALKS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass the stopped vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.46) (Prior Code, § 7.04.42)
§ 72.056 RIGHT-OF-WAY YIELDED TO BLIND PERSON.
   (A)   (1)   As used in this section BLIND PERSON or BLIND PEDESTRIAN means a
person having not more than 20/200 visual acuity in the better eye with
correcting lenses, or visual acuity greater than 20/200, but with a limitation
in the fields of vision such that the widest diameter of the visual field
subtends an angle no greater than 20 degrees.
      (2)   The driver of every vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to every
blind pedestrian guided by a guide dog, or carrying a cane which is
predominantly white or metallic in color, with or without a red tip.
   (B)   No person, other than a blind person, while on any public highway,
street, alley or other public thoroughfare, shall carry a white or metallic
cane, with or without a red tip.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.47) (Prior Code, § 7.04.43)
§ 72.057 RIGHT-OF-WAY YIELDED BY PEDESTRIANS.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all traffic upon the roadway.
   (C)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
   (D)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway intersection diagonally unless
authorized by official traffic-control devices; and when authorized to cross
diagonally, pedestrians shall cross only in accordance with the official
traffic-control devices pertaining to such crossing movements.
   (E)   This section does not relieve the operator of a vehicle from
exercising due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any roadway.
   (F)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.48) (Prior Code, § 7.04.44)
§ 72.058 PEDESTRIANS YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY TO PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of a public safety vehicle, as stated in
R.C. § 4511.45 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, every
pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to the public safety vehicle.
   (B)   This section shall not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle
from the duty to exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.452) (Prior Code, § 7.04.45)
§ 72.059 STOP AT SIDEWALK AREA; STOP SIGNS ON PRIVATE ROADS AND DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, building, private road
or driveway within a business or residence district shall stop the vehicle
immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area
extending across the alley, building entrance, road or driveway, or in the
event there is no sidewalk area, shall stop at the point nearest the street to
be entered where the driver has a view of approaching traffic thereon.
(R.C. § 4511.431(A))
   (B)   The owner of a private road or driveway located in a private
residential area containing 20 or more dwelling units may erect stop signs at
places where the road or driveway intersects with another private road or
driveway in the residential area, in compliance with all of the following
requirements:
      (1)   The stop sign is sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily
observant person and meets the specifications of and is placed in accordance
with the manual adopted by the Department of Transportation pursuant to R.C. §
4511.09.
      (2)   The owner has posted a sign at the entrance of the private road or
driveway that is in plain view and clearly informs persons entering the road or
driveway that they are entering private property, stop signs have been posted
and must be obeyed, and the signs are enforceable by law enforcement officers
under state law. The sign required by this division, where appropriate, may be
incorporated with the sign required by R.C. § 4511.211(A)(2), or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   The provisions of R.C. § 4511.43(A) and R.C. § 4511.46, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be deemed to apply to the
driver of a vehicle on a private road or driveway where a stop sign is placed
in accordance with division (B) above and to a pedestrian crossing such a road
or driveway at an intersection where a stop sign is in place.
   (D)   When a stop sign is placed in accordance with division (B) above, any
law enforcement officer may apprehend a person found violating the stop sign
and may stop and charge the person with violating the stop sign.
   (E)   As used in this section, and for the purpose of applying R.C. §
4511.43(A) and R.C. § 4511.46, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, to conduct under this section:
      INTERSECTION. Means:
         (a)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two private roads or driveways which join one another at, or
approximately at, right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling
upon different private roads or driveways joining at any other angle may come
in conflict; and
         (b)   Where a private road or driveway includes two roadways 30 feet
or more apart, then every crossing of two roadways of such private roads or
driveways shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
      OWNER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.211.
      PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL AREA CONTAINING 20 OR MORE DWELLING UNITS. Has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.211.
      ROADWAY. The portion of a private road or driveway improved, designed or
ordinarily used for vehicular travel, except the berm or shoulder. If a private
road or driveway includes two or more separate roadways, the term means any
such roadway separately but not all such roadways collectively.
(R.C.§ 4511.432(A) - (C), (E))
   (F)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. §§ 4511.431(B), 4511.432(D))
   (G)   If the offender violates division (A) above while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. §§ 4511.431(B))
§ 72.060 PEDESTRIAN ON SIDEWALK HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian
on a sidewalk.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.441)
PEDESTRIANS
§ 72.075 RIGHT HALF OF CROSSWALK TO BE USED.
   (A)   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.49) (Prior Code, § 7.04.46)
§ 72.076 DUTY OF PEDESTRIANS TO LOOK IN BOTH DIRECTIONS.
   Pedestrians shall not step into or upon a public road or highway without
looking in both directions to see what is approaching.
(Prior Code, § 7.04.47)
§ 72.077 USE OF WALKS, CROSSWALKS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Where a sidewalk is provided and its use is practicable, it shall be
unlawful for any pedestrian to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Where a sidewalk is not available, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall walk only on a shoulder, as far as practicable from the
edge of the roadway.
   (C)   Where neither a sidewalk nor a shoulder is available, any pedestrian
walking along and upon a highway shall walk as near as practicable to an
outside edge of the roadway, and, if on a two-way roadway, shall walk only on
the left side of the roadway.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. §§ 4511.13 and 4511.46, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, any pedestrian upon a roadway
shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.50) (Prior Code, § 7.04.48)
§ 72.078 INTOXICATED OR DRUGGED PEDESTRIAN HAZARD ON HIGHWAY.
   (A)   A pedestrian who is under the influence of alcohol, any drug of abuse
or any combination of them to a degree that renders the pedestrian a hazard
shall not walk or be upon a highway.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.481) (Prior Code, § 7.04.49)
§ 72.079 PEDESTRIAN ON BRIDGE OR RAILROAD CROSSING.
   (A)   No pedestrian shall enter or remain upon any bridge or approach
thereto beyond the bridge signal, gate or barrier after a bridge operation
signal indication has been given. No pedestrian shall pass through, around,
over or under any crossing gate or barrier at a railroad grade crossing or
bridge while the gate or barrier is closed or is being opened or closed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.511)
§ 72.080 PERSONS OPERATING MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIRS.
   Every person operating a motorized wheelchair shall have all of the rights
and duties applicable to a pedestrian that are contained in this chapter,
except those provisions which by their nature can have no application.
(R.C. § 4511.491)
§ 72.081 OPERATION OF ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   Electric personal assistive mobility devices may be operated on
the public streets, highways, sidewalks and paths and portions of roadways set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles in accordance with this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, those sections of
this traffic code that by their nature are applicable to an electric personal
assistive mobility device apply to the device and the person operating it
whenever it is operated upon any public street, highway, sidewalk or path or
upon any portion of a roadway set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
      (3)   The municipality may regulate or prohibit the operation of electric
personal assistive mobility devices on public streets, highways, sidewalks and
paths, or portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles,
under its jurisdiction.
   (B)   No operator of an electric personal assistive mobility device shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians and human-powered
vehicles at all times;
      (2)   Fail to give an audible signal before overtaking and passing a
pedestrian;
      (3)   Operate the device at night unless the device or its operator is
equipped with or wearing both of the following:
         (a)   A lamp pointing to the front that emits a white light visible
from a distance of not less than 500 feet; and
         (b)   A red reflector facing the rear that is visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet when directly in front of lawful lower
beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle.
      (4)   Operate the device on any portion of a street or highway that has
an established speed limit of 55 mph or more;
      (5)   Operate the device upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of
pedestrians or other specialized use when an appropriate sign giving notice of
the specialized use is posted on the path;
      (6)   If under 18 years of age, operate the device unless wearing a
protective helmet on the person’s head with the chin strap properly fastened;
and
      (7)   If under 16 years of age, operate the device unless, during the
operation, the person is under the direct visual and audible supervision of
another person who is 18 years of age or older and is responsible for the
immediate care of the person under 16 years of age.
   (C)   No person who is under 14 years of age shall operate an electric
personal assistive mobility device.
   (D)   No person shall distribute or sell an electric personal assistive
mobility device unless the device is accompanied by a written statement that is
substantially equivalent to the following: “WARNING: TO REDUCE THE RISK OF
SERIOUS INJURY, USE ONLY WHILE WEARING FULL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT – HELMET,
WRIST GUARDS, ELBOW PADS, AND KNEE PADS”.
   (E)   Nothing in this section affects or shall be construed to affect any
rule of the Director of Natural Resources or a Board of Park District
Commissioners governing the operation of vehicles on lands under the control of
the Director or board, as applicable.
   (F)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (B) or (C) above is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor and shall be punished as follows.
         (a)   The offender shall be fined $10.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (B) or (C) above or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, the court, in addition to imposing
the fine required under division (F)(1)(a) above, shall do one of the
following:
            1.   Order the impoundment for not less than one day but not more
than 30 days of the electric personal assistive mobility device that was
involved in the current violation of that division. The court shall order the
device to be impounded at a safe indoor location designated by the court and
may assess storage fees of not more than $5 per day; provided the total
storage, processing and release fees assessed against the offender or the
device in connection with the device’s impoundment or subsequent release shall
not exceed $50; or
            2.    If the court does not issue an impoundment order pursuant to
division (F)(1)(b)1. above, issue an order prohibiting the offender from
operating any electric personal assistive mobility device on the public
streets, highways, sidewalks and paths and portions of roadways set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles for not less than one day but not more than 30
days.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (D) above is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.512)
   (G)   As used in this code, ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE
means a self-balancing two non-tandem wheeled device that is designed to
transport only one person, has an electric propulsion system of an average of
750 watts, and when ridden on a paved level surface by an operator who weighs
170 pounds has a maximum speed of less than 20 mph.
(R.C. § 4501.01(TT))
§ 72.082 OPERATION OF PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE ON SIDEWALKS OR CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ELIGIBLE ENTITY. A corporation, partnership, association, firm, sole
proprietorship or other entity engaged in business.
      PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE. An electrically powered device to which all of
the following apply.
         (a)   The device is intended primarily to transport property and cargo
on sidewalks and crosswalks.
         (b)   The device weighs less than 250 pounds excluding any property or
cargo being carried in the device.
         (c)   The device has a maximum speed of ten mph.
         (d)   The device is equipped with technology that enables the
operation of the device with active control or monitoring by a person, without
active control or monitoring by a person, or both with or without active
control or monitoring by a person.
      PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE OPERATOR. An agent of an eligible entity who
exercises direct physical control over, or monitoring of, the navigation and
operation of a personal delivery device. The phrase does not include, with
respect to a delivery or other service rendered by a personal delivery device,
the person who requests the delivery or service. The phrase also does not
include a person who only arranges for and dispatches a personal delivery
device for a delivery or other service.
   (B)   An eligible entity may operate a personal delivery device on sidewalks
and crosswalks so long as all of the following requirements are met.
      (1)   The personal delivery device is operated in accordance with all
regulations, if any, established by each local authority within which the
personal delivery device is operated.
      (2)   A personal delivery device operator is actively controlling or
monitoring the navigation and operation of the personal delivery device.
      (3)   The eligible entity maintains an insurance policy that includes
general liability coverage of not less than $100,000 for damages arising from
the operation of the personal delivery device by the eligible entity and any
agent of the eligible entity.
      (4)   The device is equipped with all of the following:
         (a)   A marker that clearly identifies the name and contact
information of the eligible entity operating the personal delivery device and a
unique identification number;
         (b)   A braking system that enables the personal delivery device to
come to a controlled stop; and
         (c)   If the personal delivery device is being operated between sunset
and sunrise, a light on both the front and rear of the personal delivery device
that is visible in clear weather from a distance of at least 500 feet to the
front and rear of the personal delivery device when directly in front of low
beams of headlights on a motor vehicle.
   (C)   No personal delivery device operator shall allow a personal delivery
device to do any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to comply with traffic or pedestrian control devices and
signals;
      (2)   Unreasonably interfere with pedestrians or traffic;
      (3)   Transport any hazardous material that would require a permit issued
by the Public Utilities Commission; and
      (4)   Operate on a street or highway, except when crossing the street or
highway within a crosswalk.
   (D)   A personal delivery device has all of the rights and obligations
applicable to a pedestrian under the same circumstances, except that a personal
delivery device shall yield the right-of-way to human pedestrians on sidewalks
and crosswalks.
   (E)   (1)   No person shall operate a personal delivery device unless the
person is authorized to do so under this section and complies with the
requirements of this section.
      (2)   An eligible entity is responsible for both of the following:
         (a)   Any violation of this section that is committed by a personal
delivery device operator; and
         (b)   Any other circumstance, including a technological malfunction,
in which a personal delivery device operates in a manner prohibited by
divisions (C)(1) to (C)(4) above.
(R.C. § 4511.513)
§ 72.083 LOW-SPEED MICROMOBILITY DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   A low-speed micromobility device may be operated on the public
streets, highways, sidewalks and shared-use paths, and may be operated on any
portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles in accordance
with this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, those sections of
this title that by their nature could apply to a low-speed micromobility device
do apply to the device and the person operating it whenever it is operated upon
any public street, highway, sidewalk or shared-use path, or upon any portion of
a roadway set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (B)   No operator of a low-speed micromobility device shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Fail to yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians at all times;
      (2)   Fail to give an audible signal before overtaking and passing a
pedestrian; or
      (3)   Operate the device at night unless the device or its operator is
equipped with or wearing both of the following:
         (a)   A lamp pointing to the front that emits a white light visible
from a distance of not less than 500 feet; and
         (b)   A red reflector facing the rear that is visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet when directly in front of lawful lower
beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle.
   (C)   (1)   No person who is under 16 years of age shall rent a low-speed
micromobility device.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly rent a low-speed micromobility device to
a person who is under 16 years of age.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly rent a low-speed micromobility device on
behalf of a person who is under 16 years of age.
   (D)   No person shall operate a low-speed micromobility device at a speed
greater than 20 mph.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Unless a mens rea is otherwise specified in this section, an
offense established under this section is a strict liability offense and R.C. §
2901.20 does not apply. The designation of that offense as a strict liability
offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for which there
is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
   (F)   Notwithstanding division (A)(1) above, the municipality, county,
township, metropolitan park district, township park district, recreation
district or any division of the State Department of Natural Resources if the
division has the approval of the State Director of Natural Resources may do any
of the following:
      (1)   Regulate or prohibit the operation of low-speed micromobility
devices on public streets, highways, sidewalks and shared-use paths, and
portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, under its
jurisdiction;
      (2)   Include low-speed micromobility devices that are adapted to expand
access for people with various physical limitations into a shared bicycle,
shared electric bicycle or similar vehicle sharing program, under its
jurisdiction; or
      (3)   Require the owner or operator of a low-speed micromobility device
rental service or low-speed micromobility device sharing program to maintain
commercial general liability insurance related to the operation of the devices,
with limits of up to $1,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 per aggregate.
(R.C. § 4511.514)
GRADE CROSSINGS
§ 72.095 STOP SIGNS AT GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   As used in this section, ACTIVE GRADE CROSSING WARNING DEVICE means
signs, signals, gates or other protective devices erected or installed at a
public highway-railway crossing at common grade and activated by an electrical
circuit.
   (B)   The Department of Transportation and local authorities, with the
approval of the Department, may designate dangerous highway crossings over
railroad tracks and erect stop signs thereat.
   (C)   (1)   The Department and local authorities shall erect stop signs at a
railroad highway grade crossing in either of the following circumstances:
         (a)   New warning devices that are not active grade crossing warning
devices are being installed at the grade crossing, and railroad crossbucks were
the only warning devices at the grade crossing prior to the installation of the
new warning devices; and
         (b)   The grade crossing is constructed after July 1, 2013, and only
warning devices that are not active grade crossing warning devices are
installed at the grade crossing.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) above does not apply to a railroad highway grade
crossing that the Director of Transportation has exempted from that division
because of traffic flow or other considerations or factors.
   (D)   When stop signs are erected pursuant to division (B) or (C) above, the
operator of any vehicle shall stop within 50, but not less than 15, feet from
the nearest rail of the railroad tracks and shall exercise due care before
proceeding across such grade crossing.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (D) above is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (F)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.61) (Prior Code, § 7.04.50)
§ 72.096 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNAL INDICATING APPROACH OF RAILROAD TRAIN.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad
grade crossing, the person shall stop within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet
from the nearest rail of the railroad if any of the following circumstances
exist at the crossing:
         (a)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a train;
         (b)   A crossing gate is lowered;
         (c)   A flagperson gives or continues to give a signal of the approach
or passage of a train;
         (d)   There is insufficient space on the other side of the railroad
grade crossing to accommodate the vehicle the person is operating without
obstructing the passage of other vehicles, pedestrians or railroad trains,
notwithstanding any traffic-control signal indication to proceed;
         (e)   An approaching train is emitting an audible signal or is plainly
visible, and is in hazardous proximity to the crossing; and
         (f)   There is insufficient undercarriage clearance to safely
negotiate the crossing.
      (2)   A person who is driving a vehicle and who approaches a railroad
grade crossing shall not proceed as long as any of the circumstances described
in divisions (A)(1)(a) through (A)(1)(f) above exist at the crossing.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while the gate or barrier is
closed, or is being opened or closed unless the person is signaled by a law
enforcement officer or flagperson that it is permissible to do so.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.62) (Prior Code, § 7.04.51)
§ 72.097 SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR BUSES AND HAZARDOUS CARGOES.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B) below, the operator of any
bus, any school vehicle or any vehicle transporting material required to be
placarded under 49 C.F.R. parts 100 through 185, before crossing at grade any
track of a railroad, shall stop the vehicle, and while so stopped, shall listen
through an open door or open window, and look in both directions along the
track for any approaching train and for signals indicating the approach of a
train, and shall proceed only upon exercising due care after stopping, looking
and listening as required by this section.
      (2)   Upon proceeding, the operator of such a vehicle shall cross only in
a gear that will ensure there will be no necessity for changing gears while
traversing the crossing, and shall not shift gears while crossing the tracks.
   (B)   This section does not apply at grade crossings when any local
authority has filed an application with the Public Utilities Commission
requesting the approval of an exempt crossing, and the Public Utilities
Commission has authorized and approved an exempt crossing as provided in R.C. §
4511.63(B).
   (C)   As used in this section:
      BUS. Any vehicle originally designed by its manufacturer to transport 16
or more passengers, including the driver, or carries 16 or more passengers,
including the driver.
      EXEMPT CROSSING. A highway rail grade crossing authorized and approved by
the Public Utilities Commission under R.C. § 4511.63(B) at which vehicles may
cross without making the stop otherwise required by this section.
      SCHOOL VEHICLE. Any vehicle used for the transportation of pupils to and
from a school or school-related function if the vehicle is owned or operated
by, or operated under contract with, a public or nonpublic school.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. §§ 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, 4511.77 or 4511.79, or
a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of those
sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.63) (Prior Code, § 7.04.52)
§ 72.098 SLOW MOVING VEHICLES OR EQUIPMENT CROSSING RAILROAD TRACKS.
   (A)   No person shall operate or move any crawler-type tractor, steam
shovel, derrick, roller or any equipment or structure having a normal operating
speed of six or less mph or a vertical body or load clearance of less than nine
inches above the level surface of a roadway, upon or across any tracks at a
railroad grade crossing without first complying with divisions (A)(1) and (A)
(2) below.
      (1)   Before making any such crossing, the person operating or moving any
such vehicle or equipment shall first stop the same, and while stopped, the
person shall listen and look in both directions along the track for any
approaching train and for signals indicating the approach of a train, and shall
proceed only upon exercising due care.
      (2)   No such crossing shall be made when warning is given by automatic
signal, crossing gates, or a flagperson, or otherwise of the immediate approach
of a railroad train or car.
   (B)   If the normal sustained speed of the vehicle, equipment or structure
is not more than three mph, the person owning, operating or moving the same
shall also give notice of the intended crossing to a station agent or
superintendent of the railroad, and a reasonable time shall be given to the
railroad to provide proper protection for the crossing. Where the vehicles or
equipment are being used in constructing or repairing a section of highway
lying on both sides of a railroad grade crossing, and in this construction or
repair it is necessary to repeatedly move the vehicles or equipment over the
crossing, one daily notice specifying when the work will start and stating the
hours during which it will be prosecuted is sufficient.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.64) (Prior Code, § 7.04.53)
§ 72.099 OBSTRUCTION OF ROADS BY RAILROADS.
   (A)   No railroad company shall obstruct, or permit or cause to be
obstructed, a public street, road or highway, by permitting a railroad car,
locomotive or other obstruction to remain upon or across it for longer than
five minutes, to the hindrance or inconvenience of travelers or a person
passing along or upon such street, road or highway. No railroad company shall
fail, at the end of each five-minute period of obstruction of a public street,
road or highway, to cause such railroad car, locomotive or other obstruction to
be removed for sufficient time, not less than three minutes, to allow the
passage of persons and vehicles waiting to cross.
   (B)   This section does not apply to obstruction of a public street, road or
highway by a continuously moving-through train or caused by circumstances
wholly beyond the control of the railroad company, but does apply to other
obstructions, including, without limitation, those caused by stopped trains and
trains engaged in switching, loading or unloading operations.
   (C)   The maximum speed a railroad train may travel through the city is 20
mph.
(Prior Code, § 7.04.54)
SCHOOL BUSES
§ 72.110 OPERATING SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle, upon meeting or overtaking from either
direction any school bus stopped for the purpose of receiving or discharging
any school child, person attending programs offered by community boards of
mental health and county boards of developmental disabilities or child
attending a program offered by a head start agency, shall stop at least ten
feet from the front or rear of the school bus and shall not proceed until such
school bus resumes motion, or until signaled by the school bus driver to
proceed. It is no defense to a charge under this division that the school bus
involved failed to display or be equipped with an automatically extended stop
warning sign as required by division (B) below.
   (B)   (1)   Every school bus shall be equipped with amber and red visual
signals meeting the requirements of R.C. § 4511.771 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, and an automatically extended stop warning sign
of a type approved by the state Board of Education, which shall be actuated by
the driver of the bus whenever but only whenever the bus is stopped or stopping
on the roadway for the purpose of receiving or discharging school children,
persons attending programs offered by community boards of mental health and
county boards of developmental disabilities or children attending programs
offered by head start agencies.
      (2)   A school bus driver shall not actuate the visual signals or the
stop warning sign in designated school bus loading areas where the bus is
entirely off the roadway or at school buildings when children or persons
attending programs offered by community boards of mental health and county
boards of developmental disabilities are loading or unloading at curb-side or
at buildings when children attending programs offered by head start agencies
are loading or unloading at curb-side. The visual signals and stop warning sign
shall be synchronized or otherwise operated as required by rule of the Board.
   (C)   Where a highway has been divided into four or more traffic lanes, a
driver of a vehicle need not stop for a school bus approaching from the
opposite direction which has stopped for the purpose of receiving or
discharging any school child, persons attending programs offered by community
boards of mental health and county boards of developmental disabilities or
children attending programs offered by head start agencies. The driver of any
vehicle overtaking the school bus shall comply with division (A) above.
   (D)   School buses operating on divided highways or on highways with four or
more traffic lanes shall receive and discharge all school children, persons
attending programs offered by community boards of mental health and county
boards of developmental disabilities and children attending programs offered by
head start agencies on their residence side of the highway.
   (E)   No school bus driver shall start the driver’s bus until after any
child, person attending programs offered by community boards of mental health
and county boards of developmental disabilities, or child attending a program
offered by a head start agency who may have alighted therefrom has reached a
place of safety on the child’s or person’s residence side of the road.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) above may be fined an amount not
to exceed $500. A person who is issued a citation for a violation of division
(A) above is not permitted to enter a written plea of guilty and waive the
person’s right to contest the citation in a trial but instead must appear in
person in the proper court to answer the charge.
      (2)   In addition to and independent of any other penalty provided by
law, the court or mayor may impose upon an offender who violates this section a
class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7). When a
license is suspended under this section, the court or mayor shall cause the
offender to deliver the license to the court, and the court or clerk of the
court immediately shall forward the license to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles,
together with notice of the court’s action.
   (G)   As used in this section:
      HEAD START AGENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3301.32.
      SCHOOL BUS. As used in relation to children who attend a program offered
by a head start agency, means a bus that is owned and operated by a head start
agency, is equipped with an automatically extended stop warning sign of a type
approved by the State Board of Education, is painted the color and displays the
markings described in R.C. § 4511.77 and is equipped with amber and red visual
signals meeting the requirements of R.C. § 4511.77, irrespective of whether or
not the bus has 15 or more children aboard at any time. The term does not
include a van owned and operated by a head start agency, irrespective of its
color, lights or markings.
(R.C. § 4511.75) (Prior Code, § 7.04.55)
§ 72.111 ACTION AGAINST VIOLATORS.
   (A)   As used in this section, LICENSE PLATE includes, but is not limited
to, any temporary motor vehicle license registration issued under R.C. §
4503.182 or substantially equivalent law of another jurisdiction.
   (B)   When the operator of a school bus believes that a motorist has
violated R.C. § 4511.75(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
the operator shall report the license plate number and general description of
the vehicle and of the operator of the vehicle to the law enforcement agency
exercising jurisdiction over the area where the alleged violation occurred. The
information contained in the report relating to the license plate number and to
the general description of the vehicle and the operator of the vehicle at the
time of the alleged violation may be supplied by any person with first-hand
knowledge of the information. Information of which the operator of the school
bus has first-hand knowledge also may be corroborated by any other person.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the report of the alleged violation of R.C. § 4511.75
(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the law enforcement
agency shall conduct an investigation to attempt to determine the identity of
the operator of the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation. If the
identity of the operator at the time of the alleged violation is established,
the reporting of the license plate number of the vehicle shall establish
probable cause for the law enforcement agency to issue a citation for the
violation of R.C. § 4511.75(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance. However, if the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time
of the alleged violation cannot be established, the law enforcement agency
shall issue a warning to the owner of the vehicle at the time of the alleged
violation, except in the case of a leased or rented vehicle when the warning
shall be issued to the lessee at the time of the alleged violation.
(R.C. § 4511.751) (Prior Code, § 7.04.56)
§ 72.112 STATE SCHOOL BUS REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Department of Public Safety, by and with the advice of the
superintendent of public instruction, shall adopt and enforce rules relating to
the construction, design and equipment, including lighting equipment required
by R.C. § 4511.771, of all school buses both publicly and privately owned and
operated in this state.
   (B)   The Department of Education, by and with the advice of the Director of
Public Safety, shall adopt and enforce rules relating to the operation of all
vehicles used for pupil transportation.
   (C)   No person shall operate a vehicle used for pupil transportation within
this state in violation of the rules of the Department of Education or the
Department of Public Safety. No person, being the owner thereof or having the
supervisory responsibility therefor, shall permit the operation of a vehicle
used for pupil transportation within this state in violation of the rules of
the Department of Education or the Department of Public Safety.
   (D)   The Department of Public Safety shall adopt and enforce rules relating
to the issuance of a license under R.C. § 4511.763. The rules may relate to the
condition of the equipment to be operated; the liability and property damage
insurance carried by the applicant; the posting of satisfactory and sufficient
bond; and such other rules as the director of public safety determines
reasonably necessary for the safety of the pupils to be transported.
   (E)   A chartered nonpublic school may own and operate, or contract with a
vendor that supplies, a vehicle originally designed for not more than nine
passengers, not including the driver, to transport students to and from
regularly scheduled school sessions when one of the following applies:
      (1)   A student’s school district of residence has declared the
transportation of the student impractical pursuant to R.C. § 3327.02; or
      (2)   A student does not live within thirty minutes of the chartered
nonpublic school and the student’s school district is not required to transport
the student under R.C. § 3327.01.
   (F)   As used in this section, VEHICLE USED FOR PUPIL TRANSPORTATION means
any vehicle that is identified as such by the department of education by rule
and that is subject to O.A.C. Chapter 3301-83.
   (G)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. §§ 4511.63, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, 4511.77 or 4511.79 or a
municipal ordinance that is substantially similar to any of those sections,
whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.76) (Prior Code, § 7.04.57)
§ 72.113 DISPLAY OF INSPECTION DECAL.
   (A)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person being the owner thereof,
or having supervisory responsibility therefor, permit the operation of, a
school bus within this municipality, unless there is displayed thereon the
decals issued by the state highway patrol bearing the proper date of inspection
for the calendar year for which the inspection decals were issued.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. §§ 4511.761, or R.C. §§ 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.762, 4511.764, 4511.77 or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (C)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a violation
of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may suspend for any period of time not exceeding
three years, or cancel the license of any person, partnership, association or
corporation, issued under R.C. § 4511.763.
(R.C. § 4511.761) (Prior Code, § 7.04.58)
§ 72.114 REGISTRATION AND IDENTIFICATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person being the owner thereof
or having supervisory responsibility therefor, permit the operation of a school
bus within this municipality unless there is displayed thereon an identifying
number in accordance with R.C. § 4511.764.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of R.C. §§ 4511.63,
4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.77 or 4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that
is substantially equivalent to any of those sections, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.764) (Prior Code, § 7.04.59)
§ 72.115 SCHOOL BUS NOT USED FOR SCHOOL PURPOSES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, no person who is the owner
of a bus that previously was registered as a school bus that is used or is to
be used exclusively for purposes other than the transportation of children
shall operate the bus or permit it to be operated within this municipality
unless the bus has been painted a color different from that prescribed for
school buses by R.C. § 4511.77 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance and painted in such a way that the words “stop” and “school bus” are
obliterated.
   (B)   Any church bus that previously was registered as a school bus and is
registered under R.C. § 4503.07 may retain the paint color prescribed for
school buses by R.C. § 4511.77 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance if the bus complies with all of the following:
      (1)   The words “school bus” required by R.C. § 4511.77 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance are covered or obliterated and the
bus is marked on the front and rear with the words “church bus” painted in
black lettering not less than ten inches in height;
      (2)   The automatically extending stop warning sign required by R.C. §
4511.75 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance is removed and the
word “stop” required by R.C. § 4511.77 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance is covered or obliterated;
      (3)   The flashing red and amber lights required by R.C. § 4511.771 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance are covered or removed;
      (4)   The inspection decal required by R.C. § 4511.761 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance is covered or removed; and
      (5)   The identification number assigned under R.C. § 4511.764 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance and marked in black lettering on
the front and rear of the bus is covered or obliterated.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.762, or R.C. §§ 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.764, 4511.77 or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (D)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a violation
of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may suspend for any period of time not exceeding
three years, or cancel the license of any person, partnership, association or
corporation, issued under R.C. § 4511.763.
(R.C. § 4511.762) (Prior Code, § 7.04.60)
§ 72.116 SCHOOL BUS MARKING.
   (A)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person being the owner thereof
or having supervisory responsibility therefor permit the operation of, a school
bus within this municipality unless it is painted national school bus yellow
and is marked on both front and rear with the words “school bus” in black
lettering not less than eight inches in height and on the rear of the bus with
the word “stop” in black lettering not less than ten inches in height.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.77, or R.C. §§ 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764 or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (C)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a violation
of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may suspend, for any period of time not exceeding
three years, or cancel the license of any person, partnership, association or
corporation issued under R.C. § 4511.763.
(R.C. § 4511.77) (Prior Code, § 7.04.61)
§ 72.117 LIGHT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every school bus shall, in addition to any other equipment and
distinctive markings required pursuant to R.C. §§ 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.764
and 4511.77, and any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, be equipped
with signal lamps mounted as high as practicable, which shall display to the
front two alternately flashing red lights and two alternately flashing amber
lights located at the same level and to the rear two alternately flashing red
lights and alternately flashing amber lights located at the same level, and
these lights shall be visible at 500 feet in normal sunlight. The alternately
flashing red lights shall be spaced as widely as practicable, and the
alternately flashing amber lights shall be located next to them.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.771) (Prior Code, § 7.04.62)
§ 72.118 LIGHTS AND SIGN REQUIREMENTS FOR TRANSPORTATION OF PRESCHOOL CHILDREN.
   (A)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle owned, leased or hired by a
nursery school, kindergarten or day-care center, while transporting preschool
children to or from such an institution unless the motor vehicle is equipped
with and displaying two amber flashing lights mounted on a bar attached to the
top of the vehicle, and a sign bearing the designation “caution – children”,
which shall be attached to the bar carrying the amber flashing lights in such a
manner as to be legible to persons both in front of and behind the vehicle. The
lights and sign shall meet standards and specifications adopted by the director
of public safety. The director, subject to R.C. Chapter 119, shall adopt
standards and specifications for the lights and sign, which shall include, but
are not limited to, requirements for the color and size of lettering to be used
on the sign, the type of material to be used for the sign, and the method of
mounting the lights and sign so that they can be removed from a motor vehicle
being used for purposes other than those specified in this section.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle displaying the lights and sign
required by this section for any purpose other than the transportation of
preschool children as provided in this section.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section shall be punished as provided in R.C. §
4513.99.
(R.C. § 4513.182) (Prior Code, § 7.04.63)
§ 72.119 RESTRICTION ON THE OPERATION OF SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a vehicle used for pupil transportation within
this municipality in violation of the rules of the Department of Education of
the Department of Public Safety. No person, being the owner thereof, or having
the supervisory responsibility therefor, shall permit the operation of a
vehicle used for pupil transportation within this municipality in violation of
the rules of the Department of Education or the Department of Public Safety.
   (B)   As used in this section, VEHICLE USED FOR PUPIL TRANSPORTATION means
any vehicle that is identified as such by the Department of Education by rule
and that is subject to O.A.C. Chapter 3301-83.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.76, or R.C. §§ 4511.63, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, 4511.77 or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.76(C), (F), (G))
§ 72.120 LICENSING BY DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY.
   (A)   No person, partnership, association or corporation shall transport
pupils to or from school on a school bus or enter into a contract with a board
of education of any school district for the transportation of pupils on a
school bus without being licensed by the Department of Public Safety.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.763)
§ 72.121 OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE FOR OPERATOR.
   (A)   On and after May 6, 1986, no person, school board or governmental
entity shall purchase, lease or rent a new school bus unless the school bus has
an occupant restraining device, as defined in R.C. § 4513.263, installed for
use in its operator’s seat.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.772)
PROHIBITIONS
§ 72.135 DRIVING ON CLOSED STREETS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall drive upon, along or across a street or highway, or
any part of a street or highway that has been closed in the process of its
construction, reconstruction or repair, and posted with appropriate signs by
the authority having jurisdiction to close the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.71(A))
   (B)   No person shall operate a vehicle on or onto a public street or
highway that is temporarily covered by a rise in water level, including
groundwater or an overflow of water, and that is clearly marked by a sign that
specifies that the road is closed due to the rise in water level and that any
person who uses the closed portion of the road may be fined up to $2,000. A
person who is issued a citation for a violation of division (B)(1) above is not
permitted to enter a written plea of guilty and waive the person’s right to
contest the citation in court, but instead must appear in person in the proper
court to answer the charge.
(R.C. § 4511.714(A), (B))
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever
violates division (A) above is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (A) above is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within
one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or
more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates division (A)
above is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
         (b)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.71(B))
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B) above is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
         (b)   In addition to the financial sanctions authorized or required
under R.C. § 2929.28 and to any costs otherwise authorized or required under
any provision of law, the court imposing the sentence upon an offender who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of division (B) above shall order
the offender to reimburse one or more rescuers for the cost any such rescuer
incurred in rescuing the person, excluding any cost of transporting the rescued
person to a hospital or other facility for treatment of injuries, up to a
cumulative maximum of $2,000.
         (c)   If more than one rescuer was involved in the emergency response,
the court shall allocate the reimbursement proportionately, according to the
cost each rescuer incurred. A financial sanction imposed under this section is
a judgment in favor of the rescuer and, subject to a determination of indigency
under R.C. § 2929.28(B), a rescuer may collect the financial sanction in the
same manner as provided in R.C. § 2929.28.
(R.C. § 4511.714(C))
   (D)   As used in this section:
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICE ORGANIZATION. Has the same meanings as in R.C.
§ 9.60.
      FIREFIGHTING AGENCY. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 9.60.
      PRIVATE FIRE COMPANY. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 9.60.
      RESCUER. A state agency, political subdivision, firefighting agency,
private fire company or emergency medical service organization.
(R.C. § 4511.714(D)) (Prior Code, § 7.04.31)
§ 72.136 FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Following an emergency or public vehicle prohibited. The driver of any
vehicle, other than an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle on official
business, shall not follow any emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle
traveling in response to an alarm closer than 500 feet, or drive into or park
the vehicle within the block where the fire apparatus has stopped in answer to
a fire alarm, unless directed to do so by a police officer or a firefighter.
(R.C. § 4511.72(A))
   (B)   Approaching stationary public safety vehicle with caution.
      (1)   The driver of a motor vehicle, upon approaching a stationary public
safety vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle, waste collection
vehicle, vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to conduct motor
vehicle inspections in accordance with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and 4923.06, or a
highway maintenance vehicle that is displaying the appropriate visual signals
by means of flashing, oscillating or rotating lights, as prescribed in R.C. §
4513.17, shall do either of the following.
         (a)   If the driver of the motor vehicle is traveling on a highway
that consists of at least two lanes that carry traffic in the same direction of
travel as that of the driver’s motor vehicle, the driver shall proceed with due
caution and, if possible and with due regard to the road, weather and traffic
conditions, shall change lanes into a lane that is not adjacent to that of the
stationary public safety vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle,
waste collection vehicle, vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to
conduct motor vehicle inspections in accordance with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and
4923.06 or a highway maintenance vehicle.
         (b)   If the driver is not traveling on a highway of a type described
in division (B)(1)(a) above, or if the driver is traveling on a highway of that
type but it is not possible to change lanes or if to do so would be unsafe, the
driver shall proceed with due caution, reduce the speed of the motor vehicle
and maintain a safe speed for the road, weather and traffic conditions.
      (2)   This division (B) does not relieve the driver of a public safety
vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle, waste collection vehicle,
vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to conduct motor vehicle
inspections in accordance with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and 4923.06, or a highway
maintenance vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of
all persons and property upon the highway.
      (3)   No person shall fail to drive a motor vehicle in compliance with
divisions (B)(1)(a) or (B)(1)(b) above when so required by this division (B).
(R.C. § 4511.213(A) - (C))
   (C)   Penalty.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Notwithstanding §
130.99 or R.C. § 2929.28, upon a finding that a person operated a motor vehicle
in violation of division (B)(3) above, the court, in addition to all other
penalties provided by law, shall impose a fine of two times the usual amount
imposed for the violation.
      (3)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. §§ 4511.213(D), 4511.72(B))
   (D)   (1)   The offense established under division (B) above is a strict
liability offense and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply.
      (2)   The designation of this offense as a strict liability offense shall
not be construed to imply that any other offense, for which there is no
specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. §§ 4511.213(E))
(Prior Code, § 7.04.36)
§ 72.137 CROSSING FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall, without the consent of the fire department official
in command, be driven over any unprotected hose of a fire department that is
laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any fire or alarm of
fire.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender commits the offense while
distracted and the distracting activity is a contributing factor to the
commission of the offense, the offender is subject to the additional fine
established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.73) (Prior Code, § 7.04.37)
§ 72.138 OCCUPYING TRAVEL TRAILER WHILE IN MOTION.
   (A)   No person shall occupy any travel trailer or manufactured or mobile
home while it is being used as a conveyance upon a street or highway.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.701)
§ 72.139 DRIVING UPON SIDEWALK AREA OR PATHS EXCLUSIVELY FOR BICYCLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall drive any vehicle, other than a bicycle or an
electric bicycle if the motor is not engaged, upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area,
except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway. This prohibition
does not apply to a law enforcement officer, or other person sworn to enforce
the criminal and traffic laws of the state, using an electric bicycle with the
motor engaged while in the performance of the officer’s duties.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting local
authorities from regulating the operation of bicycles or electric bicycles,
except that no local authority may require that bicycles or electric bicycles
be operated on sidewalks.
(R.C. § 4511.711(A))
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, snowmobile or all-purpose
vehicle upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, when an
appropriate sign giving notice of such use is posted on the path. Nothing in
this section shall be construed to affect any rule of the Director of Natural
Resources governing the operation of motor vehicles, snowmobiles, all-purpose
vehicles and bicycles on lands under the Director’s jurisdiction.
(R.C. § 4511.713(A))
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. §§ 4511.711(B), 4511.713(B))
§ 72.140 OBSTRUCTING PASSAGE OF OTHER VEHICLES.
   (A)   No driver shall enter an intersection or marked crosswalk, or drive
onto any railroad grade crossing, unless there is sufficient space on the other
side of the intersection, crosswalk or grade crossing to accommodate the
vehicle the driver is operating without obstructing the passage of other
vehicles, pedestrians or railroad trains, notwithstanding any traffic-control
signal indication to proceed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.712)
§ 72.141 PLACING AN INJURIOUS MATERIAL ON HIGHWAY OR DEPOSITING LITTER FROM
MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a
highway, lane, road, street or alley any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails or
other articles which may damage or injure any person, vehicle or animal
traveling along or upon the highway, except such substances that may be placed
upon the roadway by proper authority for the repair or construction thereof.
      (2)   Any person who drops or permits to be dropped or thrown upon any
highway any destructive or injurious material shall immediately remove the
same.
      (3)   Any person authorized to remove a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a
highway shall remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the
highway from such vehicle.
      (4)   No person shall place any obstruction in or upon a highway without
proper authority.
   (B)   No person, with intent to cause physical harm to a person or a
vehicle, shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a highway, lane, road,
street or alley any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails or other articles which
may damage or injure any person, vehicle or animal traveling along or upon such
highway, except such substances that may be placed upon the roadway by proper
authority for the repair or construction thereof.
(R.C. § 4511.74(A), (B))
   (C)   No operator or occupant of a motor vehicle shall, regardless of
intent, throw, drop, discard or deposit litter from any motor vehicle in
operation upon any street, road or highway, except into a litter receptacle in
a manner that prevents its being carried away or deposited by the elements.
   (D)   No operator of a motor vehicle in operation upon any street, road or
highway shall allow litter to be thrown, dropped, discarded or deposited from
the motor vehicle, except into a litter receptacle in a manner that prevents
its being carried away or deposited by the elements.
   (E)   As used in this section, LITTER means garbage, trash, waste, rubbish,
ashes, cans, bottles, wire, paper, cartons, boxes, automobile parts, furniture,
glass or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature.
(R.C. § 4511.82(A), (B), (D))
   (F)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) above is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates division (A) above
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates division (A) above is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) above is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
(R.C. § 4511.74(C))
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) above is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.82(C))
§ 72.142 OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICES.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      AUTOMOBILE. Any commercial tractor, passenger car, commercial car or
truck that is required to be factory-equipped with an occupant restraining
device for the operator or any passenger by regulations adopted by the United
States Secretary of Transportation pursuant to the “National Traffic and Motor
Vehicle Safety Act of 1966”, 80 Stat. 719, 15 U.S.C. § 1392.
      COMMERCIAL CAR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      COMMERCIAL TRACTOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE. A seat safety belt, shoulder belt, harness
or other safety device for restraining a person who is an operator of or
passenger in an automobile and that satisfies the minimum federal vehicle
safety standards established by the United States Department of Transportation.
      PASSENGER. Any person in an automobile, other than its operator, who is
occupying a seating position for which an occupant restraining device is
provided.
      PASSENGER CAR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      TORT ACTION.
         (a)   A civil action for damages for injury, death or loss to person
or property.
         (b)   The term includes a product liability claim, as defined in R.C.
§ 2307.71, and as asbestos claim, as defined in R.C. § 2307.91, but does not
include a civil action for damages for breach of contract or another agreement
between persons.
      VEHICLE and MOTOR VEHICLE. As used in the definitions of the terms set
forth above, VEHICLE and MOTOR VEHICLE have the same meanings as in R.C. §
4511.01.
   (B)   Prohibited acts. No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate an automobile on any street or highway unless he or she is
wearing all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant
restraining device, or operate a school bus that has an occupant restraining
device installed for use in its operator’s seat unless he or she is wearing all
of the available elements of the device, as properly adjusted;
      (2)   Operate an automobile on any street or highway unless each
passenger in the automobile who is subject to the requirement set forth in
division (B)(3) below is wearing all of the available elements of a properly
adjusted occupant restraining device;
      (3)   Occupy, as a passenger, a seating position on the front seat of an
automobile being operated on any street or highway unless he or she is wearing
all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining
device; or
      (4)   Operate a taxicab on any street or highway unless all factory-
equipped occupant restraining devices in the taxicab are maintained in usable
form.
   (C)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Division (B)(3) above does not apply to a person who is required by
R.C. § 4511.81 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to be secured
in a child restraint device or booster seat.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) above does not apply to a person who is an employee
of the United States Postal Service or of a newspaper home delivery service,
during any period in which the person is engaged in the operation of an
automobile to deliver mail or newspapers to addressees.
      (3)   Divisions (B)(1) and (B)(3) above do not apply to a person who has
an affidavit signed by a physician licensed to practice in this state under
R.C. Chapter 4731 or a chiropractor licensed to practice in this state under
R.C. Chapter 4734 that states the following:
         (a)   That the person has a physical impairment that makes use of an
occupant restraining device impossible or impractical;
         (b)   Whether the physical impairment is temporary, permanent or
reasonably expected to be permanent; and
         (c)   If the physical impairment is temporary, how long the physical
impairment is expected to make the use of an occupant restraining device
impossible or impractical.
      (4)   Divisions (B)(1) and (B)(3) above do not apply to a person who has
registered with the Registrar of Motor Vehicles in accordance with division (C)
(5) below.
      (5)   A person who has received an affidavit under division (C)(3) above
stating that the person has a permanent or reasonably expected to be permanent
physical impairment that makes use of an occupant restraining device impossible
or impracticable may register with the Registrar of Motor Vehicles attesting to
that fact. Upon such registration, the Registrar shall make that information
available in the law enforcement automated data system. A person included in
the database under this division (C)(5) is not required to have the affidavit
obtained in accordance with division (C)(3) above in their possession while
operating or occupying an automobile.
      (6)   A physician or chiropractor who issues an affidavit for the
purposes of division (C)(3) or (C)(4) above is immune from civil liability
arising from any injury or death sustained by the person who was issued the
affidavit due to the failure of the person to wear an occupant restraining
device unless the physician or chiropractor, in issuing the affidavit, acted in
a manner that constituted willful, wanton or reckless misconduct.
      (7)   The Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall adopt rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 establishing a process for a person to be included in the
database under division (C)(5) above. The information provided and included in
the database under division (C)(5) above is not a public record subject to
inspection or copying under R.C. § 149.43.
   (D)   Officers not permitted to stop cars to determine violation.
      (1)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause an operator of an automobile being operated on
any street or highway to stop the automobile for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (B) above has been or is being
committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation or summons for
the violation or for causing the arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a
person for the violation.
      (2)   No law enforcement officer shall view the interior or visually
inspect any automobile being operated on any street or highway for the sole
purpose of determining whether the violation has been or is being committed.
   (E)   Use of fines for educational program. All fines collected for
violations of division (B) above shall be forwarded to the State Treasurer for
deposit in the funds as set forth in R.C. § 4513.263(E).
   (F)   Limitations on evidence used for prosecution.
      (1)   Subject to division (F)(2) below, the failure of a person to wear
all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining
device in violation of division (B)(1) or (B)(3) above or the failure of a
person to ensure that each minor who is a passenger of an automobile being
operated by that person is wearing all of the available elements of a properly
adjusted occupant restraining device in violation of division (B)(2) above
shall not be considered or used by the trier of fact in a tort action as
evidence of negligence or contributory negligence. But the trier of fact may
determine based on evidence admitted consistent with the state’s Rules of
Evidence that the failure contributed to the harm alleged in the tort action
and may diminish a recovery of compensatory damages that represents non-
economic loss, as defined in R.C. § 2307.011, in a tort action that could have
been recovered but for the plaintiff’s failure to wear all of the available
elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device. Evidence of that
failure shall not be used as a basis for a criminal prosecution of the person
other than a prosecution for a violation of this section; and shall not be
admissible as evidence in a criminal action involving the person other than a
prosecution for a violation of this section.
      (2)   If, at the time of an accident involving a passenger car equipped
with occupant restraining devices, any occupant of the passenger car who
sustained injury or death was not wearing an available occupant restraining
device, was not wearing all of the available elements of such a device, or was
not wearing such a device as properly adjusted, then, consistent with the Rules
of Evidence, the fact that the occupant was not wearing the available occupant
restraining device, was not wearing all of the available elements of such a
device or was not wearing such a device as properly adjusted is admissible in
evidence in relation to any claim for relief in a tort action to the extent
that the claim for relief satisfies all of the following:
         (a)   It seeks to recover damages for injury or death to the occupant;
         (b)   The defendant in question is the manufacturer, designer,
distributor or seller of the passenger car; or
         (c)   The claim for relief against the defendant in question is that
the injury or death sustained by the occupant was enhanced or aggravated by
some design defect in the passenger car or that the passenger car was not
crashworthy.
   (G)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) above shall be fined $30.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) above shall be subject to the
penalty set forth in §
70.99(B).
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) above shall be fined $20.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (B)(4) above is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division
(B)(4) above, whoever violates division (B)(4) above is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4513.263)
Cross-reference:
   Child restraint systems, see §
74.038
   Installation and sale of seat safety belts, see §
74.046
   School bus operators, restraining devices, see §
72.121
§ 72.143 USE OF ENGINE BRAKES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The non-emergency use of engine brakes within the municipality is
prohibited.
   (B)   As used in this section, ENGINE BRAKES shall be defined to include,
but is not limited to, Jake Brakes, Jacobs Brakes, C Brakes, PacBrakes,
TekBrakes and any other type of engine retarders commonly utilized within the
trucking industry.
   (C)   This section does not apply to emergency vehicles operated by fire,
police or military units.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
§ 72.144 OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE WHILE WEARING EARPHONES OR EARPLUGS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      EARPHONES. Any device that covers all or a portion of both ears and that
does either of the following:
         (a)   Through either a physical connection to another device or a
wireless connection, provides the listener with radio programs, music or other
information; or
         (b)   Provides hearing protection.
      EARPHONES does not include speakers or other listening devices that are
built into protective headgear.
      EARPLUGS. Any device that can be inserted into one or both ears and that
does either of the following:
         (a)   Through either a physical connection to another device or a
wireless connection, provides the listener with radio programs, music or other
information; or
         (b)   Provides hearing protection.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle while wearing earphones over,
or earplugs in, both ears.
   (C)   This section does not apply to:
      (1)   Any person wearing a hearing aid;
      (2)   Law enforcement personnel while on duty;
      (3)   Fire Department personnel and emergency medical service personnel
while on duty;
      (4)   Any person engaged in the operation of equipment for use in the
maintenance or repair of any highway;
      (5)   Any person engaged in the operation of refuse collection equipment;
and
      (6)   Any person wearing earphones or earplugs for hearing protection
while operating a motorcycle.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.84)
§ 72.145 CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINES AND LIVERY SERVICES.
   (A)   The operator of a chauffeured limousine shall accept passengers only
on the basis of prearranged contracts, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01, and shall
not cruise in search of patronage unless the limousine is in compliance with
any statute or ordinance governing the operation of taxicabs or other similar
vehicles for hire. The operator of a chauffeured limousine may provide
transportation to passengers who arrange for the transportation through an
intermediary, including a digital dispatching service. Notwithstanding any law
to the contrary, when providing transportation arranged through an
intermediary, the operator of a chauffeured limousine may establish the fare
and method of fare calculation, so long as the method of fare calculation is
provided to the passenger upon request.
   (B)   No person shall advertise or hold himself or herself out as doing
business as a limousine service or livery service or other similar designation
unless each vehicle used by the person to provide the service is registered in
accordance with R.C. § 4503.24 and is in compliance with R.C. § 4509.80.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.85)
Statutory reference:
   Chauffeured limousine, motor vehicle licensing, see R.C. § 4503.24
   Proof of financial responsibility, see R.C. § 4509.80
§ 72.146 CRACKING EXHAUST NOISES; PEELING OUT.
   No person shall operate any motor vehicle, except when necessary for safe
operation, or in compliance with law, in such a manner that the vehicle is so
rapidly accelerated or started from a stopped position, or in the shifting of
gears while in motion, that the exhaust system emits a loud, cracking or
chattering noise unusual to its normal operation, or that the rubber tires of
such vehicle squeal or leave tire marks on the roadway, commonly known as
“peeling out”.
§ 72.147 SHORTCUTTING ACROSS PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No operator of a motor vehicle shall enter upon private property for the
sole purpose of driving across such property, between abutting streets or other
public ways thereof. The failure to stop on such property in connection with or
in furtherance of the enterprise or activities being conducted on the property
shall constitute prima facie evidence of the violation.
§ 72.148 TEXTING WHILE DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall drive a motor vehicle on any street, highway or
property open to the public for vehicular traffic while using a handheld
electronic wireless communications device to write, send or read a text-based
communication.
   (B)   Division (A) above does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   A person using a handheld electronic wireless communications device
in that manner for emergency purposes, including an emergency contact with a
law enforcement agency, hospital or health care provider, fire department or
other similar emergency agency or entity;
      (2)   A person driving a public safety vehicle who uses a handheld
electronic wireless communications device in that manner in the course of the
person’s duties;
      (3)   A person using a handheld electronic wireless communications device
in that manner whose motor vehicle is in a stationary position and who is
outside a lane of travel;
      (4)   A person reading, selecting or entering a name or telephone number
in a handheld electronic wireless communications device for the purpose of
making or receiving a telephone call;
      (5)   A person receiving wireless messages on a device regarding the
operation or navigation of a motor vehicle; safety-related information,
including emergency, traffic or weather alerts; or data used primarily by the
motor vehicle;
      (6)   A person receiving wireless messages via radio waves;
      (7)   A person using a device for navigation purposes;
      (8)   A person conducting wireless interpersonal communication with a
device that does not require manually entering letters, numbers or symbols or
reading text messages, except to activate, deactivate or initiate the device or
a feature or function of the device;
      (9)   A person operating a commercial truck while using a mobile data
terminal that transmits and receives data; and
      (10)   A person using a handheld electronic wireless communications
device in conjunction with a voice-operated or hands-free device feature or
function of the vehicle.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause an operator of an automobile being operated on
any street or highway to stop the automobile for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (A) above has been or is being
committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation or summons for
a violation of that nature or causing the arrest of or commencing a prosecution
of a person for a violation of that nature, and no law enforcement officer
shall view the interior or visually inspect any automobile being operated on
any street or highway for the sole purpose of determining whether a violation
of that nature has been or is being committed.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) above is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
   (E)   A prosecution for a violation of this section does not preclude a
prosecution for a violation of R.C. § 4511.204 based on the same conduct.
However, if an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of this
section and is also convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of R.C. §
4511.204 based on the same conduct, the two offenses are allied offenses of
similar import under R.C. § 2941.25.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Includes any of the following:
         (a)   A wireless telephone;
         (b)   A text-messaging device;
         (c)   A personal digital assistant;
         (d)   A computer, including a laptop computer and a computer tablet;
and
         (e)   Any other substantially similar wireless device that is designed
or used to communicate text.
      VOICE-OPERATED OR HANDS-FREE DEVICE. A device that allows the user to
vocally compose or send, or to listen to a text-based communication without the
use of either hand except to activate or deactivate a feature or function.
      WRITE, SEND, OR READ A TEXT-BASED COMMUNICATION. To manually write or
send, or read a text-based communication using an electronic wireless
communications device, including manually writing or sending, or reading
communications referred to as text messages, instant messages or electronic
mail.
(R.C. § 4511.204)
Statutory reference:
   No preemption for local regulations imposing greater penalties, see R.C. §
4511.204(E)
§ 72.149 USE OF ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATION DEVICES BY MINORS OR
PROBATIONARY DRIVERS WHILE DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No holder of a temporary instruction permit who has not attained the
age of 18 years and no holder of a probationary driver’s license shall drive a
motor vehicle on any street, highway or property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular traffic or parking while using in any manner an
electronic wireless communications device.
   (B)   Division (A) above does not apply to either of the following:
      (1)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device for
emergency purposes, including an emergency contact with a law enforcement
agency, hospital or health care provider, fire department or other similar
emergency agency or entity;
      (2)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device whose
motor vehicle is in a stationary position and the motor vehicle is outside a
lane of travel; or
      (3)   A person using a navigation device in a voice-operated or hands-
free manner who does not manipulate the device while driving.
   (C)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) below, whoever violates
division (A) above shall be fined $150. In addition, the court shall impose a
class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license or permit for a
definite period of 60 days.
      (2)   If the person previously has been adjudicated a delinquent child or
a juvenile traffic offender for a violation of this section, whoever violates
this section shall be fined $300. In addition, the court shall impose a class
seven suspension of the person’s driver’s license or permit for a definite
period of one year.
   (D)   The filing of a sworn complaint against a person for a violation of
this section does not preclude the filing of a sworn complaint for a violation
of R.C. § 4511.205 for the same conduct. However, if a person is adjudicated a
delinquent child or a juvenile traffic offender for a violation of this section
and is also adjudicated a delinquent child or a juvenile traffic offender for a
violation of R.C. § 4511.205 for the same conduct, the two offenses are allied
offenses of similar import under R.C. § 2941.25.
   (E)   As used in this section, ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE
includes any of the following:
      (1)   A wireless telephone;
      (2)   A personal digital assistant;
      (3)   A computer, including a laptop computer and a computer tablet;
      (4)   A text-messaging device; and
      (5)   Any other substantially similar electronic wireless device that is
designed or used to communicate via voice, image or written word.
(R.C. § 4511.205)
CHAPTER 73: MOTOR VEHICLE CRIMES
Section
General Provisions
   
73.01   Driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs
   
73.02   Implied consent
   
73.03   Physical control of vehicle while under the influence
   
73.04   Reckless operation of vehicles
   
73.05   Reckless operation off streets and highways; competitive operation
   
73.06   Operator to be in reasonable control
   
73.07   Immobilizing or disabling device violation
   
73.08   Speed limits
   
73.09   Presenting false name or information to officer
   
73.10   Prohibition against resisting officer
   
73.11   Operation restricted for mini-trucks and low-speed, under-speed or
utility vehicles
Stopping After Accident
   
73.25   Stopping after accident on other than public roads or highways
   
73.26   Failure to report accident
Statutory reference:
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 73.01 DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL OR DRUGS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate any vehicle within this municipality,
if, at the time of the operation, any of the following apply.
         (a)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse or
a combination of them.
         (b)   The person has a concentration of 0.08% or more but less than
0.17% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
         (c)   The person has a concentration of 0.096% or more but less than
0.204% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or
plasma.
         (d)   The person has a concentration of 0.08 grams or more but less
than 0.17 grams by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
         (e)   The person has a concentration of 0.11 grams or more but less
than 0.238 grams by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s
urine.
         (f)   The person has a concentration of 0.17% or more by weight per
unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
         (g)   The person has a concentration of 0.204% or more by weight per
unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or plasma.
         (h)   The person has a concentration of 0.17 grams or more by weight
of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
         (i)   The person has a concentration of 0.238 grams or more by weight
of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s urine.
         (j)   Except as provided in division (K) below, the person has a
concentration of any of the following controlled substances or metabolites of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma or
urine that equals or exceeds any of the following.
            1.   The person has a concentration of amphetamine in the person’s
urine of at least 500 nanograms of amphetamine per milliliter of the person’s
urine or has a concentration of amphetamine in the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma of at least 100 nanograms of amphetamine per milliliter
of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            2.   The person has a concentration of cocaine in the person’s
urine of at least 150 nanograms of cocaine per milliliter of the person’s urine
or has a concentration of cocaine in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma of at least 50 nanograms of cocaine per milliliter of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma.
            3.   The person has a concentration of cocaine metabolite in the
person’s urine of at least 150 nanograms of cocaine metabolite per milliliter
of the person’s urine or has a concentration of cocaine metabolite in the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 50 nanograms of
cocaine metabolite per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma.
            4.   The person has a concentration of heroin in the person’s urine
of at least 2,000 nanograms of heroin per milliliter of the person’s urine or
has a concentration of heroin in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma of at least 50 nanograms of heroin per milliliter of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma.
            5.   The person has a concentration of heroin metabolite (6-
monoacetyl morphine) in the person’s urine of at least ten nanograms of heroin
metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) per milliliter of the person’s urine or has
a concentration of heroin metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) in the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least ten nanograms of heroin
metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) per milliliter of the person’s whole blood
or blood serum or plasma.
            6.   The person has a concentration of L.S.D. in the person’s urine
of at least 25 nanograms of L.S.D. per milliliter of the person’s urine or a
concentration of L.S.D. in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of
at least ten nanograms of L.S.D. per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma.
            7.   The person has a concentration of marihuana in the person’s
urine of at least ten nanograms of marihuana per milliliter of the person’s
urine or has a concentration of marihuana in the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma of at least two nanograms of marihuana per milliliter of the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            8.   Either of the following applies:
               a.   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of
abuse or a combination of them, and the person has a concentration of marihuana
metabolite in the person’s urine of at least 15 nanograms of marihuana
metabolite per milliliter of the person’s urine or has a concentration of
marihuana metabolite in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at
least five nanograms of marihuana metabolite per milliliter of the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
               b.   The person has a concentration of marihuana metabolite in
the person’s urine of at least 35 nanograms of marihuana metabolite per
milliliter of the person’s urine or has a concentration of marihuana metabolite
in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 50 nanograms
of marihuana metabolite per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma.
            9.   The person has a concentration of methamphetamine in the
person’s urine of at least 500 nanograms of methamphetamine per milliliter of
the person’s urine or has a concentration of methamphetamine in the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 100 nanograms of
methamphetamine per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma.
            10.   The person has a concentration of phencyclidine in the
person’s urine of at least 25 nanograms of phencyclidine per milliliter of the
person’s urine or has a concentration of phencyclidine in the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma of at least ten nanograms of phencyclidine per
milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            11.   The State Board of Pharmacy has adopted a rule pursuant to
R.C. § 4729.041 that specifies the amount of salvia divinorum and the amount of
salvinorin A that constitute concentrations of salvia divinorum and salvinorin
A in a person’s urine, in a person’s whole blood or in a person’s blood serum
or plasma at or above which the person is impaired for purposes of operating
any vehicle within this state, the rule is in effect, and the person has a
concentration of salvia divinorum or salvinorin A of at least that amount so
specified by rule in the person’s urine, in the person’s whole blood or in the
person’s blood serum or plasma.
      (2)   No person who, within 20 years of the conduct described in division
(A)(2)(a) below, previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a
violation of this division or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, a violation of division (A)(1) above or division (B) below or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance or any other
equivalent offense shall do both of the following:
         (a)   Operate any vehicle within this municipality while under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse or a combination of them; and
         (b)   Subsequent to being arrested for operating the vehicle as
described in division (A)(2)(a) above, being asked by a law enforcement officer
to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191 or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and being advised by the officer
in accordance with R.C. § 4511.192 or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance of the consequences of the person’s refusal or submission to the test
or tests, refuse to submit to the test or tests.
   (B)   No person under 21 years of age shall operate any vehicle within this
municipality, if, at the time of the operation, any of the following apply.
      (1)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.02% but less than
0.08% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
      (2)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.03% but less than
0.096% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or
plasma.
      (3)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.02 grams but less than
0.08 grams by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
      (4)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.028 grams but less
than 0.11 grams by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s urine.
   (C)   In any proceeding arising out of one incident, a person may be charged
with a violation of divisions (A)(1)(a) or (A)(2) above and a violation of
division (B)(1), (B)(2) or (B)(3) above, but the person may not be convicted of
more than one violation of these divisions.
   (D)   (1)   (a)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding
for a violation of division (A)(1)(a) above or for an equivalent offense that
is vehicle-related, the result of any test of any blood or urine withdrawn and
analyzed at any health care provider, as defined in R.C. § 2317.02, may be
admitted with expert testimony to be considered with any other relevant and
competent evidence in determining the guilt or innocence of the defendant.
         (b)   In any criminal prosecution for a violation of division (A) or
(B) above or for an equivalent offense that is vehicle-related, the court may
admit evidence on the concentration of alcohol, drugs of abuse, controlled
substances, metabolites of a controlled substance or a combination of them in
the defendant’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, urine or other
bodily substance at the time of the alleged violation as shown by chemical
analysis of the substance withdrawn within three hours of the time of the
alleged violation. The three-hour time limit specified in this division
regarding the admission of evidence does not extend or affect the two-hour time
limit specified in R.C. § 4511.192(A) as the maximum period of time during
which a person may consent to a chemical test or tests as described in that
section. The court may admit evidence on the concentration of alcohol, drugs of
abuse or a combination of them as described in this division when a person
submits to a blood test at the request of a law enforcement officer under R.C.
§ 4511.191 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or a blood or
urine sample is obtained pursuant to a search warrant. Only a physician, a
registered nurse, an emergency medical technician-intermediate, an emergency
medical technician-paramedic or a qualified technician, chemist or phlebotomist
shall withdraw a blood sample for the purpose of determining the alcohol, drug,
controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance or combination
content of the whole blood, blood serum, or blood plasma. This limitation does
not apply to the taking of breath or urine specimens. A person authorized to
withdraw blood under this division may refuse to withdraw blood under this
division, if, in that person’s opinion, the physical welfare of the person
would be endangered by the withdrawing of blood. The bodily substance withdrawn
under this division (D)(1)(b) shall be analyzed in accordance with methods
approved by the Director of Health by an individual possessing a valid permit
issued by the Director pursuant to R.C. § 3701.143.
         (c)   As used in division (D)(1)(b) above, EMERGENCY MEDICAL
TECHNICIAN-INTERMEDIATE and EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-PARAMEDIC have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 4765.01.
      (2)   In a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (A) above or
for an equivalent offense that is vehicle-related, if there was at the time the
bodily substance was withdrawn a concentration of less than the applicable
concentration of alcohol specified in divisions (A)(1)(b), (A)(1)(c), (A)(1)(d)
and (A)(1)(e) above or less than the applicable concentration of a listed
controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance specified
for a violation of division (A)(1)(j) above, that fact may be considered with
other competent evidence in determining the guilt or innocence of the
defendant. This division does not limit or affect a criminal prosecution for a
violation of division (B) above.
      (3)   Upon the request of the person who was tested, the results of the
chemical test shall be made available to the person or the person’s attorney,
immediately upon the completion of the chemical test analysis. If the chemical
test was obtained pursuant to division (D)(1)(b) above, the person tested may
have a physician, a registered nurse or a qualified technician, chemist or
phlebotomist of the person’s own choosing administer a chemical test or tests,
at the person’s expense, in addition to any administered at the request of a
law enforcement officer. If the person was under arrest as described in R.C. §
4511.191(A)(5), the arresting officer shall advise the person at the time of
the arrest that the person may have an independent chemical test taken at the
person’s own expense. If the person was under arrest other than described in
R.C. § 4511.191(A)(5), the form to be read to the person to be tested, as
required under §
73.02, shall state that the person may have an independent test performed at
the person’s expense. The failure or inability to obtain an additional chemical
test by a person shall not preclude the admission of evidence relating to the
chemical test or tests taken at the request of a law enforcement officer.
      (4)   (a)   As used in division (D)(4)(b) and (D)(4)(c) below, NATIONAL
HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION means the National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration established as an administration of the United States Department
of Transportation under 49 U.S.C. § 105.
         (b)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of division (A) or (B) above, of a municipal ordinance relating to
operating a vehicle while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse or
alcohol and a drug of abuse, or of a municipal ordinance relating to operating
a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled substance or
a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole blood, blood serum or
plasma, breath or urine, if a law enforcement officer has administered a field
sobriety test to the operator of the vehicle involved in the violation and if
it is shown by clear and convincing evidence that the officer administered the
test in substantial compliance with the testing standards for any reliable,
credible and generally accepted field sobriety tests that were in effect at the
time the tests were administered, including, but not limited to, any testing
standards then in effect that were set by the National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration, all of the following apply.
            1.   The officer may testify concerning the results of the field
sobriety test so administered.
            2.   The prosecution may introduce the results of the field
sobriety test so administered as evidence in any proceedings in the criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding.
            3.   If testimony is presented or evidence is introduced under
division (D)(4)(b)1. or (D)(4)(b)2. above and if the testimony or evidence is
admissible under the Rules of Evidence, the court shall admit the testimony or
evidence and the trier of fact shall give it whatever weight the trier of fact
considers to be appropriate.
         (c)   Division (D)(4)(b) above does not limit or preclude a court, in
its determination of whether the arrest of a person was supported by probable
cause or its determination of any other matter in a criminal prosecution or
juvenile court proceeding of a type described in that division, from
considering evidence or testimony that is not otherwise disallowed by division
(D)(4)(b) above.
   (E)   (1)   Subject to division (E)(3) below, in any criminal prosecution or
juvenile court proceeding for a violation of division (A)(1)(b), (A)(1)(c), (A)
(1)(d), (A)(1)(e), (A)(1)(f), (A)(1)(g), (A)(1)(h), (A)(1)(i) or (A)(1)(j) or
(B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3) or (B)(4) above or for an equivalent offense that is
substantially equivalent to any of those divisions, a laboratory report from
any laboratory personnel issued a permit by the Department of Health
authorizing an analysis as described in this division that contains an analysis
of the whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, urine or other bodily
substance tested and that contains all of the information specified in this
division shall be admitted as prima facie evidence of the information and
statements that the report contains. The laboratory report shall contain all of
the following:
         (a)   The signature, under oath, of any person who performed the
analysis;
         (b)   Any findings as to the identity and quantity of alcohol, a drug
of abuse, a controlled substance, a metabolite of a controlled substance or a
combination of them that was found;
         (c)   A copy of a notarized statement by the laboratory director of a
designee of the director that contains the name of each certified analyst or
test performer involved with the report, the analyst’s or test performer’s
employment relationship with the laboratory that issued the report, and a
notation that performing an analysis of the type involved is part of the
analyst’s or test performer’s regular duties; and
         (d)   An outline of the analyst’s or test performer’s education,
training and experience in performing the type of analysis involved and a
certification that the laboratory satisfies appropriate quality control
standards in general and, in this particular analysis, under rules of the
Department of Health.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law regarding the admission
of evidence, a report of the type described in division (E)(1) above is not
admissible against the defendant to whom it pertains in any proceeding, other
than a preliminary hearing or a grand jury proceeding, unless the prosecutor
has served a copy of the report on the defendant’s attorney or, if the
defendant has no attorney, on the defendant.
      (3)   A report of the type described in division (E)(1) above shall not
be prima facie evidence of the contents, identity, or amount of any substance
if, within seven days after the defendant to whom the report pertains or the
defendant’s attorney receives a copy of the report, the defendant or the
defendant’s attorney demands the testimony of the person who signed the report.
The judge in the case may extend the seven-day time limit in the interest of
justice.
   (F)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, any physician,
registered nurse, emergency medical technician-intermediate, emergency medical
technician-paramedic or qualified technician, chemist, or phlebotomist who
withdraws blood from a person pursuant to this section or R.C. §§ 4511.19,
4511.191 or 4511.192, and any hospital, first-aid station, or clinic at which
blood is withdrawn from a person pursuant to this section or R.C. §§ 4511.19,
4511.191 or 4511.192, is immune from criminal liability and civil liability
based upon a claim of assault and battery or any other claim that is not a
claim of malpractice, for any act performed in withdrawing blood from the
person. The immunity provided in this division also extends to an emergency
medical service organization that employs an emergency medical technician-
intermediate or emergency medical technician-paramedic who withdraws blood
under this section. The immunity provided in this division is not available to
a person who withdraws blood if the person engages in willful or wanton
misconduct.
      (2)   As used in division (F)(1) above, EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-
INTERMEDIATE and EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-PARAMEDIC have the same meanings
as in R.C. § 4765.01.
   (G)   (1)   Whoever violates any provisions of divisions (A)(1)(a) through
(A)(1)(i) or (A)(2) above is guilty of operating a vehicle under the influence
of alcohol, a drug of abuse or a combination of them. Whoever violates division
(A)(1)(j) above is guilty of operating a vehicle while under the influence of a
listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance.
The court shall sentence the offender for either offense under R.C. Chapter
2929, except as otherwise authorized or required by divisions (G)(1)(a) through
(G)(1)(e) below:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(b), (G)(1)(c),
(G)(1)(d) or (G)(1)(e) below, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree, and the court shall sentence the offender to all of the penalties
and sanctions provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(a)(i) through (G)(1)(a)(iv).
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) below, an
offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been convicted of
or pleaded guilty to one violation of division (A) or (B) above or one other
equivalent offense is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. The court
shall sentence the offender to all of the penalties and sanctions provided in
R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(b)(i) through (G)(1)(b)(v).
         (c)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) below, an
offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been convicted of
or pleaded guilty to two violations of division (A) or (B) above or other
equivalent offenses is guilty of a misdemeanor. The court shall sentence the
offender to all of the penalties and sanctions provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)
(c)(i) through (G)(1)(c)(vi).
         (d)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) below, an
offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been convicted of
or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of division (A) or (B) above or
other equivalent offenses or an offender who, within 20 years of the offense,
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to five or more violations
of that nature is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
         (e)   An offender who previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) that was a felony, regardless of
when the violation and the conviction or guilty plea occurred, is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   An offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (A) above and who subsequently seeks reinstatement of the driver’s or
occupational driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege
suspended under this section or R.C. § 4511.19 as a result of the conviction or
guilty plea shall pay a reinstatement fee as provided in R.C. § 4511.191(F)(2).
      (3)   (a)   If an offender is sentenced to a jail term under R.C. §
4511.19(G)(1)(b)(i) or (G)(1)(b)(ii) or (G)(1)(c)(i) or (G)(1)(c)(ii) and if,
within 60 days of sentencing of the offender, the court issues a written
finding on the record that, due to the unavailability of space at the jail
where the offender is required to serve the term, the offender will not be able
to begin serving that term within the 60-day period following the date of
sentencing, the court may impose an alternative sentence as specified in R.C. §
4511.19(G)(3) that includes a term of house arrest with electronic monitoring,
with continuous alcohol monitoring, or with both electronic monitoring and
continuous alcohol monitoring.
         (b)   As an alternative to the mandatory jail terms as required by
R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1), the court may sentence the offender as provided in R.C. §
4511.19(G)(3).
      (4)   If an offender’s driver’s or occupational driver’s license or
permit or nonresident operating privilege is suspended under this division (G)
or R.C. § 4511.19(G) and if R.C. § 4510.13 permits the court to grant limited
driving privileges, the court may grant the limited driving privileges in
accordance with that section. If division (A)(7) of that section requires the
court impose as a condition of the privileges that the offender must display on
the vehicle that is driven subject to the privileges restricted license plates
that are issued under R.C. § 4503.231, except as provided in division (B)
above, the court shall impose that condition as one of the conditions of the
limited driving privileges granted to the offender, except as provided in R.C.
§ 4503.231(B).
      (5)   Fines imposed under this section for a violation of division (A)
above shall be distributed as provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(5).
      (6)   If title to a motor vehicle that is subject to an order of criminal
forfeiture under division (G)(1)(c), (G)(1)(d) or (G)(1)(e) above is assigned
or transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, in addition to or
independent of any other penalty established by law, the court may fine the
offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of the National
Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds of any fine so imposed shall be
distributed in accordance with division (C)(2) of that section.
      (7)   In all cases in which an offender is sentenced under this division
(G), the offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, the court, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for
any economic loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and
proximate result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or
after committing the offense for which the offender is sentenced under this
division (G).
      (8)   A court may order an offender to reimburse a law enforcement agency
for any costs incurred by the agency with respect to a chemical test or tests
administered to the offender if all of the following apply.
         (a)   The offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (A) above.
         (b)   The test or tests were of the offender’s whole blood, blood
serum or plasma or urine.
         (c)   The test or tests indicated that the offender had a prohibited
concentration of a controlled substance or a metabolite of a controlled
substance in the offender’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma or urine at the
time of the offense.
      (9)   As used in this division (G), ELECTRONIC MONITORING has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   (H)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of operating a
motor vehicle after underage alcohol consumption and shall be punished as
follows:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (H)(2) below, the offender
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. In addition to any other
sanction imposed for the offense, the court shall impose a class six suspension
of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6). The court may grant limited
driving privileges relative to the suspension under R.C. §§ 4510.021 and
4510.13. The court may grant unlimited driving privileges with an ignition
interlock device relative to the suspension and may reduce the period of
suspension as authorized under R.C. § 4510.022. If the court grants unlimited
driving privileges under R.C. § 4510.022, the court shall suspend any jail term
imposed under this division (H)(1) as required under that section.
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of division (A)
or (B) above or other equivalent offense or offenses, the offender is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the third degree. In addition to any other sanction imposed
for the offense, the court shall impose a class four suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4). The court may grant limited driving
privileges relative to the suspension under R.C. §§ 4510.021 and 4510.13.
      (3)   If the offender also is convicted of or also pleads guilty to a
specification of the type described in R.C. § 2941.1414 and if the court
imposes a jail term for the violation of division (B) above, the court shall
impose upon the offender an additional definite jail term pursuant to R.C. §
2929.24(E).
      (4)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during or after
committing the violation of division (B) of this section.
   (I)   (1)   No court shall sentence an offender to an alcohol treatment
program under this section unless the treatment program complies with the
minimum standards for alcohol treatment programs adopted under R.C. Chapter
5119 by the Director of Mental Health and Addiction Services.
      (2)   An offender who stays in a drivers’ intervention program or in an
alcohol treatment program under an order issued under this section shall pay
the cost of the stay in the program. However, if the court determines that an
offender who stays in an alcohol treatment program under an order issued under
this section is unable to pay the cost of the stay in the program, the court
may order that the cost be paid from the court’s Indigent Drivers’ Alcohol
Treatment Fund.
   (J)   If a person whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege is suspended under this section or R.C. §
4511.19 files an appeal regarding any aspect of the person’s trial or sentence,
the appeal itself does not stay the operation of the suspension.
   (K)   Division (A)(1)(j) above does not apply to a person who operates a
vehicle while the person has a concentration of a listed controlled substance
or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance in the person’s whole blood,
blood serum or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds the amount specified in
that division, if both of the following apply.
      (1)   The person obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs.
      (2)   The person injected, ingested or inhaled the controlled substance
in accordance with the health professional’s directions.
   (L)   The prohibited concentrations of a controlled substance or a
metabolite of a controlled substance listed in division (A)(1)(j) above also
apply in a prosecution of a violation of R.C. § 2923.16(D) in the same manner
as if the offender is being prosecuted for a prohibited concentration of
alcohol.
   (M)   All terms defined in R.C. § 4510.01 apply to this section. If the
meaning of a term defined in R.C. § 4510.01 conflicts with the meaning of the
same term as defined in R.C. § 4501.01 or 4511.01, the term as defined in R.C.
§ 4510.01 applies to this section.
(R.C. § 4511.19(A) - (M))
   (N)   As used in this section, §
73.02 and §
73.03:
      COMMUNITY RESIDENTIAL SANCTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2929.01.
      CONTINUOUS ALCOHOL MONITORING. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      DRUG OF ABUSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4506.01.
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE. Any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B);
         (b)   A violation of a municipal OVI ordinance;
         (c)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.04 in a case in which the offender
was subject to the sanctions described in division (D) of that section;
         (d)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.06(A)(1) or R.C. § 2903.08 or a
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to either of those
divisions;
         (e)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.06(A)(2), (A)(3), or (A)(4), R.C. §
2903.08(A)(2), or former R.C. § 2903.07, or a municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to any of those divisions or that former section, in a
case in which a judge or jury as the trier of fact found that the offender was
under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse or a combination of them;
         (f)   A violation of R.C. § 1547.11(A) or (B);
         (g)   A violation of a municipal ordinance prohibiting a person from
operating or being in physical control of any vessel underway or from
manipulating any water skis, aquaplane or similar device on the waters of this
state while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse or a combination of
them or prohibiting a person from operating or being in physical control of any
vessel underway or from manipulating any water skis, aquaplane or similar
device on the waters of this state with a prohibited concentration of alcohol,
a controlled substance or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath or urine;
         (h)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance, law of
another state or law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B) or R.C. § 1547.11(A) or (B); and/or
         (i)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B) or R.C. § 1547.11(A) or (B).
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE THAT IS VEHICLE-RELATED. An equivalent offense that is
any of the following:
         (a)   A violation described in division (a), (b), (c), (d) or (e) of
the definition for “equivalent offense” provided in this division (N);
         (b)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance, law of
another state or law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B); and/or
         (c)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B).
      JAIL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      MANDATORY JAIL TERM. The mandatory term in jail of three, six, ten, 20,
30 or 60 days that must be imposed under R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(a), (G)(1)(b), or
(G)(1)(c) upon an offender convicted of a violation of division (A) of that
section and in relation to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   Except as specifically authorized under R.C. § 4511.19, the term
must be served in a jail.
         (b)   Except as specifically authorized under R.C. § 4511.19, the term
cannot be suspended, reduced, or otherwise modified pursuant to R.C. §§ 2929.21
through 2929.28 or any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
      MANDATORY PRISON TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      MANDATORY TERM OF LOCAL INCARCERATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2929.01.
      MUNICIPAL OVI ORDINANCE and MUNICIPAL OVI OFFENSE. Any municipal
ordinance prohibiting a person from operating a vehicle while under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse or a combination of them or prohibiting a
person from operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a
controlled substance or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath or urine.
      PRISON TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      SANCTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
(R.C. § 4511.181)
Cross-reference:
   Endangering children, see §
139.03
Statutory reference:
   Mandatory suspension periods; immobilizing or disabling device; restricted
license, see R.C. § 4510.13
   Trial judge to suspend driver’s license, see R.C. § 4510.05
§ 73.02 IMPLIED CONSENT.
   (A)   (1)   As used in this section:
         ALCOHOL MONITORING DEVICE. Any device that provides for continuous
alcohol monitoring, any ignition interlock device, any immobilizing or
disabling device other than an ignition interlock device that is constantly
available to monitor the concentration of alcohol in a person’s system, or any
other device that provides for the automatic testing and periodic reporting of
alcohol consumption by a person and that a court orders a person to use as a
sanction imposed as a result of the person’s conviction of or plea of guilty to
an offense.
         COMMUNITY ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 5119.01.
         PHYSICAL CONTROL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.194.
      (2)   Any person who operates a vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for vehicular travel or parking within this
municipality or who is in physical control of a vehicle shall be deemed to have
given consent to a chemical test or tests of the person’s whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath or urine to determine the alcohol, drug of abuse,
controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance or combination
content of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine if
arrested for a violation of §
73.01(A) or (B), §
73.03, R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or any other municipal OVI ordinance.
      (3)   The chemical test or tests under division (A)(2) above shall be
administered at the request of a law enforcement officer having reasonable
grounds to believe the person was operating or in physical control of a vehicle
in violation of a division, section or ordinance identified in division (A)(2)
above. The law enforcement agency by which the officer is employed shall
designate which of the tests shall be administered.
      (4)   Any person who is dead or unconscious, or who otherwise is in a
condition rendering the person incapable of refusal, shall be deemed to have
consented as provided in division (A)(2) above, and the test or tests may be
administered, subject to R.C. §§ 313.12 through 313.16.
      (5)   (a)   If a law enforcement officer arrests a person for a violation
of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or a municipal OVI ordinance and if the person if
convicted would be required to be sentenced under R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(c), (d)
or (e), the law enforcement officer shall request the person to submit, and the
person shall submit, to a chemical test or tests of the person’s whole blood,
blood serum or plasma, breath or urine for the purpose of determining the
alcohol, drug of abuse, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled
substance or combination content of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or
plasma, breath or urine. A law enforcement officer who makes a request pursuant
to this division that a person submit to a chemical test or tests is not
required to advise the person of the consequences of submitting to, or refusing
to submit to, the test or tests and is not required to give the person the form
described in division (C) above, but the officer shall advise the person at the
time of the arrest that if the person refuses to take a chemical test the
officer may employ whatever reasonable means are necessary to ensure that the
person submits to a chemical test of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma. The officer shall also advise the person at the time of the arrest that
the person may have an independent chemical test taken at the person’s own
expense. Divisions (A)(3) and (A)(4) above apply to the administration of a
chemical test or tests pursuant to this division.
         (b)   If a person refuses to submit to a chemical test upon a request
made pursuant to division (A)(5)(a) above, the law enforcement officer who made
the request may employ whatever reasonable means are necessary to ensure that
the person submits to a chemical test of the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma. A law enforcement officer who acts pursuant to this division
to ensure that a person submits to a chemical test of the person’s whole blood
or blood serum or plasma is immune from criminal and civil liability based upon
a claim for assault and battery or any other claim for the acts, unless the
officer so acted with malicious purpose, in bad faith or in a wanton or
reckless manner.
(R.C. § 4511.191(A))
   (B)   Except as provided in division (A)(5) above, the arresting law
enforcement officer shall give advice in accordance with this section to any
person under arrest for a violation of §
73.01(A) or (B), §
73.03, R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or any other municipal OVI ordinance. The officer shall
give that advice in a written form that contains the information described in
division (C) below and shall read the advice to the person. The form shall
contain a statement that the form was shown to the person under arrest and read
to the person by the arresting officer. One or more persons shall witness the
arresting officer’s reading of the form, and the witnesses shall certify to
this fact by signing the form. The person must submit to the chemical test or
tests, subsequent to the request of the arresting officer, within two hours of
the time of the alleged violation and, if the person does not submit to the
test or tests within that two-hour time limit, the failure to submit
automatically constitutes a refusal to submit to the test or tests.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (A)(5) above, if a person is under
arrest as described in division (B) above, before the person may be requested
to submit to a chemical test or tests to determine the alcohol, drug of abuse,
controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance or combination
content of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath or urine,
the arresting officer shall read the following form to the person:
   You now are under arrest for (specifically state the offense under state law
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance for which the person was
arrested – operating a vehicle under the influence of alcohol, a drug, or a
combination of them; operating a vehicle while under the influence of a listed
controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance;
operating a vehicle after underage alcohol consumption; or having physical
control of a vehicle while under the influence).
   If you refuse to take any chemical test required by law, your Ohio driving
privileges will be suspended immediately, and you will have to pay a fee to
have the privileges reinstated. If you have a prior conviction of OVI, OVUAC,
or operating a vehicle while under the influence of a listed controlled
substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance under state or
municipal law within the preceding 20 years, you are now under arrest for state
OVI, and, if you refuse to take a chemical test, you will face increased
penalties if you subsequently are convicted of the state OVI.
   (Read this part unless the person is under arrest for solely having physical
control of a vehicle while under the influence.) If you take any chemical test
required by law and are found to be at or over the prohibited amount of
alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in
your whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine as set by law, your
Ohio driving privileges will be suspended immediately, and you will have to pay
a fee to have the privileges reinstated.
   If you take a chemical test, you may have an independent chemical test taken
at your own expense.
   (D)   If the arresting law enforcement officer does not ask a person under
arrest as described in division (B) above or division (A)(5) above to submit to
a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191 or this section, the arresting
officer shall seize the state or out-of-state driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or permit of the person and immediately forward it to the court in
which the arrested person is to appear on the charge. If the arrested person is
not in possession of the person’s license or permit or it is not in the
person’s vehicle, the officer shall order the person to surrender it to the law
enforcement agency that employs the officer within 24 hours after the arrest,
and, upon the surrender, the agency immediately shall forward the license or
permit to the court in which the person is to appear on the charge. Upon
receipt of the license or permit, the court shall retain it pending the
arrested person’s initial appearance and any action taken under R.C. §
4511.196.
   (E)   (1)   If a law enforcement officer asks a person under arrest as
described in division (A)(5) above to submit to a chemical test or tests under
that division and the test results indicate a prohibited concentration of
alcohol, a controlled substance or a metabolite of a controlled substance in
the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine at the time
of the alleged offense, or if a law enforcement officer asks a person under
arrest as described in division (B) above to submit to a chemical test or tests
under R.C. § 4511.191 or this section, if the officer advises the person in
accordance with this section of the consequences of the person’s refusal or
submission, and if either the person refuses to submit to the test or tests or,
unless the arrest was for a violation of §
73.03, R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the
person submits to the test or tests and the test results indicate a prohibited
concentration of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath
or urine at the time of the alleged offense, the arresting officer shall do all
of the following:
         (a)   On behalf of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, notify the person
that, independent of any penalties or sanctions imposed upon the person, the
person’s state driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privilege is suspended immediately, that the suspension will last at
least until the person’s initial appearance on the charge, which will be held
within five days after the date of the person’s arrest or the issuance of a
citation to the person, and that the person may appeal the suspension at the
initial appearance or during the period of time ending 30 days after that
initial appearance;
         (b)   Seize the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit of
the person and immediately forward it to the Registrar. If the arrested person
is not in possession of the person’s license or permit or it is not in the
person’s vehicle, the officer shall order the person to surrender it to the law
enforcement agency that employs the officer within 24 hours after the person is
given notice of the suspension, and, upon the surrender, the officer’s
employing agency immediately shall forward the license or permit to the
Registrar;
         (c)   Verify the person’s current residence and, if it differs from
that on the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit, notify
the Registrar of the change;
         (d)   Send to the Registrar, within 48 hours after the arrest of the
person, a sworn report that includes all of the following statements:
            1.   That the officer had reasonable grounds to believe that, at
the time of the arrest, the arrested person was operating a vehicle in
violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B) or a municipal OVI ordinance or for being
in physical control of a stationary vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.194 or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
            2.   That the person was arrested and charged with a violation of
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or a municipal OVI ordinance;
            3.   Unless division (E)(1)(d)5. below applies, that the officer
asked the person to take the designated chemical test or tests, advised the
person in accordance with this section of the consequences of submitting to, or
refusing to take, the test or tests and gave the person the form described in
division (C) above;
            4.   Unless division (E)(1)(d)5. below applies, that either the
person refused to submit to the chemical test or tests or, unless the arrest
was for a violation of R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, the person submitted to the chemical test or tests and the test
results indicate a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled substance
or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath or urine at the time of the alleged offense; and
            5.   If the person was under arrest as described in division (A)(5)
above and the chemical test or tests were performed in accordance with that
division, that the person was under arrest as described in that division, that
the chemical test or tests were performed in accordance with that division, and
that test results indicated a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled
substance or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the person’s whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath or urine at the time of the alleged
offense.
      (2)   Division (E)(1) above does not apply to a person who is arrested
for a violation of §
73.03, R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, who
is asked by a law enforcement officer to submit to a chemical test or tests
under this section, and who submits to the test or tests, regardless of the
amount of alcohol, a controlled substance or a metabolite of a controlled
substance that the test results indicate is present in the person’s whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath or urine.
   (F)   The arresting officer shall give the officer’s sworn report that is
completed under this section to the arrested person at the time of the arrest,
or the Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall send the report to the person by
regular first class mail as soon as possible after receipt of the report, but
not later than 14 days after receipt of it. An arresting officer may give an
unsworn report to the arrested person at the time of the arrest provided the
report is complete when given to the arrested person and subsequently is sworn
to by the arresting officer. As soon as possible, but not later than 48 hours
after the arrest of the person, the arresting officer shall send a copy of the
sworn report to the court in which the arrested person is to appear on the
charge for which the person was arrested.
   (G)   The sworn report of an arresting officer completed under this section
is prima facie proof of the information and statements that it contains. It
shall be admitted and considered as prima facie proof of the information and
statements that it contains in any appeal under R.C. § 4511.197 relative to any
suspension of a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege that results from the arrest covered by the
report.
(R.C. § 4511.192)
   (H)   (1)   A suspension of a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or permit or nonresident operating privilege under this section for the
time described in R.C. § 4511.191(B) or (C) is effective immediately from the
time at which the arresting officer serves the notice of suspension upon the
arrested person. Any subsequent finding that the person is not guilty of the
charge that resulted in the person’s being requested to take the chemical test
or tests under division (A) above does not affect the suspension.
      (2)   If a person arrested for operating a vehicle in violation of §
73.01(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), or any other municipal OVI
ordinance, or for being in physical control of a vehicle in violation of §
73.03 or R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
regardless of whether the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit or nonresident operating privilege is or is not suspended under R.C. §
4511.191(B) or (C) or R.C. Chapter 4510, the person’s initial appearance on the
charge resulting from the arrest shall be held within five days of the persons’
arrest or the issuance of the citation to him or her, subject to any
continuance granted by the court pursuant to R.C. § 4511.197 regarding the
issues specified in that section.
(R.C. § 4511.191(D))
Statutory reference:
   Continuous alcohol monitoring, see R.C. § 4511.198
   Disposition of fines, immobilization of vehicle and impoundment of license
plates, criminal forfeiture for municipal ordinance conviction, see R.C. §
4511.193
   Effect of refusal to submit to test, seizure of license, suspension periods,
appeal procedures, occupational driving privileges, and Indigent Drivers
Alcohol Treatment Funds, see R.C. § 4511.191
   Judicial pretrial suspension, initial appearance, see R.C. § 4511.196
   Mandatory suspension periods; immobilizing or disabling device; restricted
license, see R.C. § 4510.13
   Seizure of vehicles upon arrest, see R.C. § 4511.195
§ 73.03 PHYSICAL CONTROL OF VEHICLE WHILE UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   (A)   As used in this section, PHYSICAL CONTROL means being in the driver’s
position of the front seat of a vehicle and having possession of the vehicle’s
ignition key or other ignition device.
   (B)   No person shall be in physical control of a vehicle if, at the time of
the physical control, any of the following apply.
      (1)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse or a
combination of them.
      (2)   The person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath or urine
contains at least the concentration of alcohol specified in §
73.01(A)(1)(b), (A)(1)(c), (A)(1)(d) or (A)(1)(e).
      (3)   Except as provided in division (E) below, the person has a
concentration of a listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma or
urine that equals or exceeds the concentration specified in §
73.01(A)(1)(j).
   (C)   (1)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of this section, if a law enforcement officer has administered a
field sobriety test to the person in physical control of the vehicle involved
in the violation and if it is shown by clear and convincing evidence that the
officer administered the test in substantial compliance with the testing
standards for any reliable, credible, and generally acceptable field sobriety
tests that were in effect at the time the tests were administered, including
but not limited to any testing standards then in effect what were set by the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, all of the following apply.
         (a)   The officer may testify concerning the results of the field
sobriety test so administered.
         (b)   The prosecution may introduce the results of the field sobriety
test so administered as evidence in any proceedings in the criminal prosecution
or juvenile court proceeding.
         (c)   If testimony is presented or evidence is introduced under
division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) above and if the testimony or evidence is
admissible under the Rules of Evidence, the court shall admit the testimony or
evidence, and the trier of fact shall give it whatever weight the trier of fact
considers to be appropriate.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) above does not limit or preclude a court, in its
determination of whether the arrest of a person was supported by probable cause
or its determination of any other matter in a criminal prosecution or juvenile
court proceeding of a type described in that division, from considering
evidence or testimony that is not otherwise disallowed by division (C)(1)
above.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of having physical control of
a vehicle while under the influence, a misdemeanor of the first degree. In
addition to other sanctions imposed, the court may impose on the offender a
class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
   (E)   Division (B)(3) above does not apply to a person who is in physical
control of a vehicle while the person has a concentration of a listed
controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance in the
person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma or urine that equals or exceeds the
amount specified in §
73.01(A)(1)(j) if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs.
      (2)   The person injected, ingested or inhaled the controlled substance
in accordance with the health professional’s directions.
(R.C. § 4511.194)
§ 73.04 RECKLESS OPERATION OF VEHICLES.
   No person shall operate a vehicle on any street or highway in willful or
wanton disregard of the safety of persons or property. Except as otherwise
provided in this division, whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.20)
Cross-reference:
   License suspension, see §
71.17
§ 73.05 RECKLESS OPERATION OFF STREETS AND HIGHWAYS; COMPETITIVE OPERATION.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any public or private
property other than streets or highways in willful or wanton disregard of the
safety of persons or property.
      (2)   This section does not apply to the competitive operation of
vehicles on public or private property when the owner of such property
knowingly permits such operation thereon.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.201)
Cross-reference:
   License suspension, see §
71.17
§ 73.06 OPERATOR TO BE IN REASONABLE CONTROL.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, agricultural tractor or
agricultural tractor that is towing, pulling or otherwise drawing a unit of
farm machinery on any street, highway or property open to the public for
vehicular traffic without being in reasonable control of the vehicle,
agricultural tractor or unit of farm machinery.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operating a motor vehicle
or agricultural tractor without being in control of it, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.202)
§ 73.07 IMMOBILIZING OR DISABLING DEVICE VIOLATION.
   (A)   (1)   No offender who has been granted limited or unlimited driving
privileges, during any period that the offender is required to operate only a
motor vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device, shall request
or permit any other person to breathe into the device if it is an ignition
interlock device or another type of device that monitors the concentration of
alcohol in a person’s breath or to otherwise start the motor vehicle equipped
with the device, for the purpose of providing the offender with an operable
motor vehicle.
      (2)   No person shall breathe into an immobilizing or disabling device
that is an ignition interlock device or another type of device that monitors
the concentration of alcohol in a person’s breath or otherwise start a motor
vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device, for the purpose of
providing an operable motor vehicle to another person who has been granted
limited or unlimited driving privileges under the condition that the person
operate only a motor vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device.
      (3)   No unauthorized person shall tamper with or circumvent the
operation of an immobilizing or disabling device.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of an immobilizing or
disabling device violation, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4510.44)
§ 73.08 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle at a speed greater or less
than is reasonable or proper, having due regard for the traffic, surface and
width of the street or highway and any other conditions, and no person shall
drive any motor vehicle in and upon any street or highway at a greater speed
than will permit him or her to bring it to a stop within the assured clear
distance ahead.
   (B)   It is prima facie lawful, in the absence of a lower limit declared or
established pursuant to this section by the Director of Transportation or local
authorities, for the operator of a motor vehicle to operate the same at a speed
not exceeding the following:
      (1)   (a)   Twenty mph in school zones during school recess and while
children are going to or leaving school during the opening or closing hours,
and when 20 mph school speed limit signs are erected, except that on
controlled-access highways and expressways, if the right-of-way line fence has
been erected without pedestrian opening, the speed shall be governed by
division (B)(4) below, and on freeways, if the right-of-way line fence has been
erected without pedestrian opening, the speed shall be governed by divisions
(B)(10) and (B)(11) below. The end of every school zone may be marked by a sign
indicating the end of the zone. Nothing in this section or in the Manual and
Specifications for a Uniform System of Traffic-Control Devices shall be
construed to require school zones to be indicated by signs equipped with
flashing or other lights, or giving other special notice of the hours in which
the school zone speed limit is in effect.
         (b)   As used in this section, SCHOOL means all of the following:
            1.   Any school chartered under R.C. § 3301.16;
            2.   Any nonchartered school that during the preceding year filed
with the Department of Education in compliance with O.A.C. § 3301-35-08, a copy
of the school’s report for the parents of the school’s pupils certifying that
the school meets state minimum standards for nonchartered, nontax-supported
schools and presents evidence of this filing to the jurisdiction from which it
is requesting the establishment of a school zone;
            3.   Any special elementary school that in writing requests the
County Engineer to create a school zone at the location of the school. Upon
receipt of such written request, the County Engineer shall create a school zone
at that location by erecting appropriate signs; and
            4.   Any preschool education program operated by an educational
service center that is located on a street or highway with a speed limit of 45
mph or more, when the educational service center in writing requests that the
County Engineer create a school zone at the location of that program. Upon
receipt of such a written request, the County Engineer shall create a school
zone at that location by erecting the appropriate signs.
         (c)   As used in this section, SCHOOL ZONE means that portion of a
street or highway passing a school fronting upon the street or highway that is
encompassed by projecting the school property lines to the fronting street or
highway, and also includes that portion of a state highway. Upon request from
local authorities for streets and highways under their jurisdiction and that
portion of a state highway under the jurisdiction of the Director of
Transportation or a request from a County Engineer in the case of a school zone
for a special elementary school, the Director may extend the traditional school
zone boundaries. The distances in divisions (B)(1)(c)1. through (B)(1)(c)3.
below shall not exceed 300 feet per approach per direction, and are bounded by
whichever of the following distances or combination thereof the Director
approves as most appropriate:
            1.   The distance encompassed by projecting the school building
lines normal to the fronting highway and extending a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction;
            2.   The distance encompassed by projecting the school property
lines intersecting the fronting highway and extending a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction; and
            3.   The distance encompassed by the special marking of the
pavement for a principal school pupil crosswalk plus a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction of the highway.
         (d)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to invalidate the
Director’s initial action on August 9, 1976, establishing all school zones at
the traditional school zone boundaries defined by projecting school property
lines, except when those boundaries are extended as provided in divisions (B)
(1)(a) and (B)(1)(c) above.
         (e)   As used in this division, CROSSWALK has the meaning given that
term in R.C. § 4511.01(LL)(2).
         (f)   The Director may, upon request by resolution of the legislative
authority and upon submission by the municipality of such engineering, traffic
and other information as the Director considers necessary, designate a school
zone on any portion of a state route lying within the municipality that
includes a crosswalk customarily used by children going to or leaving a school
during recess and opening and closing hours, whenever the distance, as measured
in a straight line, from the school property line nearest the crosswalk to the
nearest point of a crosswalk is no more than 1,320 feet. Such a school zone
shall include the distance encompassed by the crosswalk and extending 300 feet
in each appropriate direction of the state route.
         (g)   As used in this section, SPECIAL ELEMENTARY SCHOOL means a
school that meets all of the following.
            1.   It is not chartered and does not receive tax revenue from any
source.
            2.   It does not educate children beyond the eighth grade.
            3.   It is located outside the limits of a municipal corporation.
            4.   A majority of the total number of students enrolled at the
school are not related by blood.
            5.   The principal or other person in charge of the special
elementary school annually sends a report to the superintendent of the school
district in which the special elementary school is located indicating the total
number of students enrolled at the school, but otherwise the principal or other
person in charge does not report any other information or data to the
superintendent.
      (2)   Twenty-five mph in all other portions of the municipality, except
on state routes outside business districts, through highways outside business
districts, and alleys;
      (3)   Thirty-five mph on all state routes or through highways within the
municipality outside business districts, except as provided in divisions (B)(4)
and (B)(6) below;
      (4)   Fifty mph on controlled-access highways and expressways within the
municipality, except as provided in divisions (B)(12), (B)(13), (B)(14), (B)
(15) and (B)(16) below;
      (5)   Fifty-five mph on highways outside the municipality, other than
highways within island jurisdictions as provided in division (B)(8) below,
highways as provided in divisions (B)(9) and (B)(10) below, and highways,
expressways and freeways as provided in divisions (B)(12), (B)(13), (B)(14) and
(B)(16) below;
      (6)   Fifty mph on state routes within the municipality outside urban
districts unless a lower prima facie speed is established as further provided
in this section;
      (7)   Fifteen mph on all alleys within the municipality;
      (8)   Thirty-five mph on highways outside the municipality that are
within an island jurisdiction;
      (9)   Thirty-five mph on through highways, except state routes, that are
outside municipal corporations and that are within a national park with
boundaries extending through two or more counties;
      (10)   Sixty mph on two-lane state routes outside municipal corporations
as established by the Director under R.C. § 4511.21(H)(2);
      (11)   Fifty-five mph on freeways with paved shoulders inside the
municipality, other than freeways as provided in divisions (B)(14) and (B)(16)
below;
      (12)   Sixty mph on rural expressways with traffic-control signals and on
all portions of rural divided highways, except as provided in divisions (B)(13)
and (B)(14) below;
      (13)   Sixty-five mph on all rural expressways without traffic-control
signals;
      (14)   Seventy mph on all rural freeways;
      (15)   Fifty-five mph on all portions of freeways or expressways in
congested areas as determined by the Director and that are located within a
municipal corporation or within an interstate freeway outerbelt, except as
provided in division (B)(16) below; and
      (16)   Sixty-five mph on all portions of freeways or expressways without
traffic-control signals in urbanized areas.
   (C)   It is prima facie unlawful for any person to exceed any of the speed
limitations in divisions (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)
(8) and (B)(9) above or any declared or established pursuant to this section by
the Director or local authorities and it is unlawful for any person to exceed
any of the speed limitations in division (D) below. No person shall be
convicted of more than one violation of this section for the same conduct,
although violations of more than one provision of this section may be charged
in the alternative in a single affidavit.
   (D)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon a street or highway as
follows:
      (1)   At a speed exceeding 55 mph, except upon a two-lane state route as
provided in division (B)(10) above and upon a highway, expressway or freeway as
provided in divisions (B)(12), (B)(13), (B)(14) and (B)(16) above;
      (2)   At a speed exceeding 60 mph upon a two-lane state route as provided
in division (B)(10) above and upon a highway as provided in division (B)(12)
above;
      (3)   At a speed exceeding 65 mph upon an expressway as provided in
division (B)(13) above or upon a freeway as provided in division (B)(16) above,
except upon a freeway as provided in division (B)(14) above;
      (4)   At a speed exceeding 70 mph upon a freeway as provided in division
(B)(14) of this section;
      (5)   At a speed exceeding the posted speed limit upon a highway,
expressway or freeway for which the Director has determined and declared a
speed limit pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(I)(2) or (L)(2).
   (E)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(E), in every charge of violating this
section, the affidavit and warrant shall specify the time, place and speed at
which the defendant is alleged to have driven, and in charges made in reliance
upon division (C) above also the speed which division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)
(3), (B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of, or a limit declared or
established pursuant to, this section or R.C. § 4511.21 declares is prima facie
lawful at the time and place of such alleged violation, except that in
affidavits where a person is alleged to have driven at a greater speed than
will permit the person to bring the vehicle to stop within the assured clear
distance ahead, the affidavit and warrant need not specify the speed at which
the defendant is alleged to have driven.
   (F)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(F), when a speed in excess of both a prima
facie limitation and a limitation in division (D) above is alleged, the
defendant shall be charged in a single affidavit, alleging a single act, with a
violation indicated of both division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6),
(B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) above, or of a limit declared or established pursuant
to this section or R.C. § 4511.21 by the Director or local authorities, and of
the limitation in division (D) above. If the court finds a violation of
division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9)
of, or a limit declared or established pursuant to, this section or R.C. §
4511.21 has occurred, it shall enter a judgment of conviction under such
division and dismiss the charge under division (D) above. If it finds no
violation of divisions (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)
(8) or (B)(9) above of, or a limit declared or established pursuant to, this
section or R.C. § 4511.21, it shall then consider whether the evidence supports
a conviction under division (D) above.
   (G)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(G), points shall be assessed for a
violation of a limitation under division (D) of this section in accordance with
R.C. § 4510.036.
(R.C. § 4511.21(A) - (G))
   (H)   Whenever, in accordance with R.C. § 4511.21(H) through (N), the
maximum prima facie speed limitations as established herein have been altered,
either higher or lower, and the appropriate signs giving notice have been
erected as required, operators of motor vehicles shall be governed by the speed
limitations set forth on such signs. It is prima facie unlawful for any person
to exceed the speed limits posted upon such signs.
   (I)   As used in this section:
      COMMERCIAL BUS. A motor vehicle designed for carrying more than nine
passengers and used for the transportation of persons for compensation.
      DIVIDED. A roadway having two or more travel lanes for vehicles moving in
opposite directions and that is separated by a median of more than four feet,
excluding turn lanes.
      INTERSTATE SYSTEM. Has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. § 101.
      NONCOMMERCIAL BUS. Includes but is not limited to a school bus, or a
motor vehicle operated solely for the transportation of persons associated with
a charitable or nonprofit organization.
      OUTERBELT. A portion of a freeway that is part of the interstate system
and is located in the outer vicinity of a major municipal corporation or group
of municipal corporations, as designated by the Director.
      RURAL. Means an area outside urbanized areas and outside of a business or
urban district, and areas that extend within urbanized areas where the roadway
characteristics remain mostly unchanged from those outside the urbanized areas.
      URBANIZED AREA. Has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. § 101.
(R.C. § 4511.21(O))
   (J)   Speed limits for private roads and driveways.
      (1)   The owner of a private road or driveway located in a private
residential area containing 20 or more dwelling units may establish a speed
limit on the road or driveway by complying with all of the following
requirements:
         (a)   The speed limit is not less than 25 mph and is indicated by a
sign that is in a proper position, is sufficiently legible to be seen by an
ordinarily observant person, and meets the specifications for the basic speed
limit sign included in the manual adopted by the Department of Transportation
pursuant to R.C. § 4511.09; and
         (b)   The owner has posted a sign at the entrance of the private road
or driveway that is in plain view and clearly informs persons entering the road
or driveway that they are entering private property, a speed limit has been
established for the road or driveway, and the speed limit is enforceable by law
enforcement officers under state law.
      (2)   No person shall operate a vehicle upon a private road or driveway
as provided in division (J)(1) above at a speed exceeding any speed limit
established and posted pursuant to division (J)(1) above.
      (3)   When a speed limit is established and posted in accordance with
division (J)(1) above, a law enforcement officer may apprehend a person
violating the speed limit of the residential area by utilizing any of the means
described in R.C. § 4511.091 or by any other accepted method of determining the
speed of a motor vehicle and may stop and charge the person with exceeding the
speed limit.
      (4)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.211(D), points shall be assessed for
violation of a speed limit established and posted in accordance with division
(J)(1) above in accordance with R.C. § 4510.036.
      (5)   As used in this division (J):
         OWNER. Includes, but is not limited to, a person who holds title to
the real property in fee simple, a condominium owners’ association, a property
owners’ association, a board of directors or trustees of a private community
and a nonprofit corporation governing a private community.
         PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL AREA CONTAINING 20 OR MORE DWELLING UNITS. Does
not include a Chautauqua assembly, as defined in R.C. § 4511.90.
(R.C. § 4511.211(A) - (E))
   (K)   Penalties.
      (1)   Divisions (A) through (I).
         (a)   A violation of any provision of divisions (A) through (I) above
is one of the following:
            1.   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (K)(1)(a)2., (K)(1)
(a)3., (K)(1)(b) and (K)(1)(c) below, a minor misdemeanor;
            2.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of any provision of
divisions (A) through (I) above, R.C. § 4511.21, or any provision of any other
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any provision of that
section, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
            3.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of any
provision of divisions (A) through (I) above, R.C. § 4511.21, or any provision
of any other municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any
provision of that section, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
         (b)   If the offender has not previously been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of any provision of division (A) through (I) above, R.C.
§ 4511.21, or any other municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to
any provision of that section, and operated a motor vehicle faster than 35
miles an hour in a business district of the municipality, faster than 50 miles
an hour in other portions of the municipality, or faster than 35 miles an hour
in a school zone during recess or while children are going to or leaving school
during the school’s opening or closing hours, a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
         (c)   Notwithstanding division (K)(1)(a) above, if the offender
operated a motor vehicle in a construction zone where a sign was then posted in
accordance with R.C. § 4511.98, the court, in addition to all other penalties
provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a fine of two times the usual
amount imposed for the violation. No court shall impose a fine of two times the
usual amount imposed for the violation upon an offender if the offender
alleges, in an affidavit filed with the court prior to the offender’s
sentencing, that the offender is indigent and is unable to pay the fine imposed
pursuant to this division and if the court determines that the offender is an
indigent person and unable to pay the fine.
         (d)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.21(P))
      (2)   Division (J).
         (a)   A violation of division (J)(2) above is one of the following:
            1.   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (K)(2)(a)2. and (K)
(2)(a)3. below, a minor misdemeanor;
            2.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of this division (J)
(2), R.C. § 4511.211(B), or any other municipal ordinance that is substantially
equivalent to that division, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
            3.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of this
division (J)(2), R.C. § 4511.211(B), or any other municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to that division, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
         (b)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.211(F))
Statutory reference:
   Alteration of speed limits with approval of Director, see R.C. § 4511.21(H)
through (N)
   Arrest pending warrant when radar, electrical or mechanical timing device
used to determine violation, see R.C. § 4511.091
§ 73.09 PRESENTING FALSE NAME OR INFORMATION TO OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly present, display or orally communicate a
false name, Social Security number or date of birth to a law enforcement
officer who is in the process of issuing to the person a traffic ticket or
complaint.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4513.361)
§ 73.10 PROHIBITION AGAINST RESISTING OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall resist, hinder, obstruct or abuse any sheriff,
constable or other official while that official is attempting to arrest
offenders under any provision of this Title VII. No person shall interfere with
any person charged under any provision of this Title VII with the enforcement
of the law relative to public highways.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.36)
   (C)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the hindrance,
obstruction, resistance or interference alleged consisted of constitutionally
protected speech only.
§ 73.11 OPERATION RESTRICTED FOR MINI-TRUCKS AND LOW-SPEED, UNDER-SPEED OR
UTILITY VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a low-speed vehicle upon any street or
highway having an established speed limit greater than 35 mph.
      (2)   No person shall operate an under-speed or utility vehicle or a
mini-truck upon any street or highway except as follows:
         (a)   Upon a street or highway having an established speed limit not
greater than 35 mph and only upon such streets or highways where the
municipality has granted permission for such operation in accordance with
division (E) below; and
         (b)   A state park or political subdivision employee or volunteer
operating a utility vehicle exclusively within the boundaries of state parks or
political subdivision parks for the operation or maintenance of state or
political subdivision park facilities.
      (3)   No person shall operate a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter upon
any street or highway having an established speed limit greater than 45 mph.
   (B)   This section does not prohibit either of the following:
      (1)   A person operating a low-speed, under-speed or utility vehicle or a
mini-truck from proceeding across an intersection of a street or highway having
a speed limit greater than 35 mph; or
      (2)   A person operating a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter from
proceeding across an intersection of a street or highway having a speed limit
greater than 45 mph.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the municipality from adopting
more stringent local ordinances, resolutions or regulations governing the
operation of a low-speed vehicle or a mini-truck, or a motor-driven cycle or
motor scooter.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) above is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.214)
   (E)   By ordinance or resolution, the municipality may authorize the
operation of under-speed or utility vehicles or mini-trucks on a public street
or highway under its jurisdiction. The municipality shall do all of the
following:
      (1)   Limit the operation of those vehicles to streets and highways
having an established speed limit not greater than 35 mph;
      (2)   Require the vehicle owner who wishes to operate an under-speed or
utility vehicle or a mini-truck on the public streets or highways to submit the
vehicle to an inspection conducted by a local law enforcement agency that
complies with inspection requirements established by the Department of Public
Safety under R.C. § 4513.02;
      (3)   Permit the operation on public streets or highways of only those
vehicles that successfully pass the required vehicle inspection, are registered
in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4503, and are titled in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 4505; and
      (4)   Notify the Director of Public Safety, in a manner the Director
determines, of the authorization for the operation of under-speed or utility
vehicles or mini-trucks.
   (F)   The municipality may establish additional requirements for the
operation of under-speed or utility vehicles or mini-trucks on its streets and
highways.
(R.C. § 4511.215)
   (G)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (F) above, a person may operate
a utility vehicle on any public roads or right-of-way, other than a freeway,
when traveling from one farm field to another for agricultural purposes if the
vehicle is displaying a triangular slow-moving vehicle emblem as described in
R.C. § 4513.11.
(R.C. § 4511.216)
   (H)   (1)   Except as provided in this division (H) and divisions (E) and
(F) above, no person shall operate a mini-truck within this municipality.
      (2)   A person may operate a mini-truck on a farm for agricultural
purposes only when the owner of the farm qualifies for the current agricultural
use valuation tax credit. A mini-truck may be operated by or on behalf of such
a farm owner on public roads and rights-of-way only when traveling from one
farm field to another.
      (3)   A person may operate a mini-truck on property owned or leased by a
dealer who sells mini-trucks at retail.
      (4)   Whoever violates this division (H) shall be penalized as provided
in division (D) above.
(R.C. § 4519.401)
STOPPING AFTER ACCIDENT
§ 73.25 STOPPING AFTER ACCIDENT ON OTHER THAN PUBLIC ROADS OR HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   (1)   In the case of a motor vehicle accident or collision resulting
in injury or damage to persons or property on any public or private property
other than a public road or highway, the operator of the motor vehicle, having
knowledge of the accident or collision, shall stop at the scene of the accident
or collision. Upon request of any person who is injured or damaged, or any
other person, the operator shall give that person the operator’s name and
address, and, if the operator is not the owner, the name and address of the
owner of that motor vehicle, together with the registered number of that motor
vehicle, and, if available, exhibit the operator’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license.
      (2)   If the operator of the motor vehicle involved in the accident or
collision does not provide the information specified in division (A)(1) above,
the operator shall give that information, within 24 hours after the accident or
collision, to the police department of the city or village in which the
accident or collision occurred, or if it occurred outside the corporate limits
of a city or village, to the sheriff of the county in which the accident or
collision occurred.
      (3)   If the accident or collision is with an unoccupied or unattended
motor vehicle, the operator who collides with the motor vehicle shall securely
attach the information required under division (A)(1) above, in writing, to a
conspicuous place in or on the unoccupied or unattended motor vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) above is guilty of failure to stop
after a nonpublic road accident. Except as otherwise provided in division (B)
(2) or (B)(3) below, failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the accident or collision results in serious physical harm to a
person, failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the accident or collision results in the death of a person,
failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (4)   In all cases, the court, in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a class five suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(5). No judge shall suspend the first six months
of suspension of an offender’s license, permit or privilege required by this
division.
      (5)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. §
2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during or after
committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.021)
§ 73.26 FAILURE TO REPORT ACCIDENT.
   (A)   No person shall fail to report a motor vehicle accident as required
under state or local law.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4509.74)
CHAPTER 74: EQUIPMENT AND LOADS
Section
Equipment
   
74.001   Applicability of chapter
   
74.002   Driving vehicles in unsafe condition
   
74.003   Lighted lights required
   
74.004   Headlights
   
74.005   Tail lights
   
74.006   Red reflectors required
   
74.007   Lighting of commercial vehicles
   
74.008   Obscured lights on vehicles
   
74.009   Red flag or light required
   
74.010   Lights on parked vehicles
   
74.011   Lights on slow moving vehicles
   
74.012   Spotlight and auxiliary driving lights
   
74.013   Cowl, fender and back-up lights
   
74.014   Two lights displayed
   
74.015   Headlights required
   
74.016   Lights of less intensity on slow moving vehicles
   
74.017   Number of lights permitted; red and flashing lights
   
74.018   Lights must be properly focused
   
74.019   Brake equipment
   
74.020   Horns, sirens and warning devices; quiet zones
   
74.021   Mufflers; excessive smoke or gas
   
74.022   Mirrors; visibility to be unobstructed
   
74.023   Signs on windshield; wipers required
   
74.024   Requirements for solid tires
   
74.025   Studded tires; prohibitions
   
74.026   Safety glass requirements
   
74.027   Requirements for vehicles transporting explosives
   
74.028   Wheel protectors or flaps
   
74.029   Display of warning devices on disabled vehicles
   
74.030   Projecting material; left side and rear of vehicle
   
74.031   All loads shall be properly secured
   
74.032   Towing requirements
   
74.033   Operation of vehicles in excess of prescribed weights; definitions
   
74.034   Weight of load; width of tire
   
74.035   Maximum axle load, wheel load and gross weights for solid-tired
vehicles
   
74.036   Maximum axle load, wheel load, gross weights, for pneumatic tired
vehicles
   
74.037   Maximum width and height
   
74.038   Child restraint system required
   
74.039   Earphones or earplugs on operator prohibited
   
74.040   Excessive music, noise or entertainment prohibited
   
74.041   Restriction on the use of tinted glass and other vision obscuring
materials
   
74.042   Moving buildings
   
74.043   Special engine brakes
   
74.044   Bumpers on motor vehicles
   
74.045   Stoplight regulations
   
74.046   Standards for lights on snow removal equipment and oversize vehicles
   
74.047   Flashing lights permitted for certain types of vehicles
   
74.048   Lights and sign on transportation for preschool children
   
74.049   Brake fluid
   
74.050   Minimum standards for brakes and components
   
74.051   Directional signals
   
74.052   Requirements for extra signal equipment
   
74.053   Requirements for vehicles transporting explosives
   
74.054   Safety inspection decals for buses
   
74.055   Air bags
Loads
   
74.070   Special permits for operation of vehicles exceeding size or weight
limits
   
74.071   Weighing of vehicle; removal of excess load
   
74.072   Operating traction engine upon improved highway
   
74.073   Load limits
   
74.074   Seat belts
   
74.075   Limitation of load extension on left side of vehicle
   
74.076   Statement of gross vehicle weight
   
74.077   Liability for damages; prosecution; application of monies
   
74.078   Weight exceptions for certain vehicles
Statutory reference:
   Exemption of certain vehicles from emission, noise control and fuel
standards, see R.C. § 4513.41
   Exemption of collector’s or historical vehicles from equipment standards,
see R.C. § 4513.38
   Motorcycles, protective eye devices required for operators and passengers;
helmets required for persons under 18 years of age, see O.A.C. § 4501-17-01
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
   Snowmobiles and all-purpose vehicles, equipment, see O.A.C. § 4501-29-01
   Vehicle lighting, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-15
EQUIPMENT
§ 74.001 APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit the
use of additional parts and accessories on any vehicle not inconsistent with
the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter with respect to equipment on vehicles
shall not apply to implement of husbandry, road machinery, road rollers or
agricultural tractors except as made applicable in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7.02.01)
§ 74.002 DRIVING VEHICLES IN UNSAFE CONDITION.
   (A)   No person shall drive or move, or cause or knowingly permit to be
driven or moved, on any highway any vehicle or combination of vehicles which is
in such unsafe condition as to endanger any person.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.02(A), (H)) (Prior Code, § 7.02.02)
§ 74.003 LIGHTED LIGHTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every vehicle, other than a motorized bicycle, operated upon a street
or highway within this state shall display lighted lights and illuminating
devices as required by R.C. §§ 4513.04 to 4513.37 during all of the following
times:
      (1)   The time from sunset to sunrise;
      (2)   At any other time when, due to insufficient natural light or
unfavorable atmospheric conditions, persons, vehicles and substantial objects
on the highway are not discernible at a distance of 1,000 feet ahead; and
      (3)   At any time when the windshield wipers of the vehicle are in use
because of precipitation on the windshield.
   (B)   Every motorized bicycle shall display at such times lighted lights
meeting the rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety under R.C. §
4511.521. No motor vehicle, during any time specified in this section, shall be
operated upon a street or highway within this state using only parking lights
as illumination.
   (C)   Whenever in such sections a requirement is declared as to the distance
from which certain lamps and devices shall render objects visible, or within
which such lamps or devices shall be visible, such distance shall be measured
upon a straight level unlighted highway under normal atmospheric conditions
unless a different condition is expressly stated.
   (D)   Whenever in such sections a requirement is declared as to the mounted
height of lights or devices, it shall mean from the center of such light or
device to the level ground upon which the vehicle stands.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a vehicle being operated upon a
street or highway within this state to stop the vehicle solely because the
officer observes that a violation of division (A)(3) above has been or is being
committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation or summons for
a violation of that division, or causing the arrest of or commencing a
prosecution of a person for a violation of that division.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.03) (Prior Code, § 7.02.03)
§ 74.004 HEADLIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, shall be equipped
with at least two headlights with at least one near each side of the front of
the motor vehicle.
      (2)   Every motorcycle shall be equipped with at least one and not more
than two headlights.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.04) (Prior Code, § 7.02.04)
§ 74.005 TAIL LIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, pole trailer or
vehicle which is being drawn at the end of a train of vehicles shall be
equipped with at least one tail light mounted on the rear which, when lighted,
shall emit a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear,
provided that in the case of a train of vehicles only the tail light on the
rearmost vehicle need be visible from the distance specified.
      (2)   Either a tail light or a separate light shall be so constructed and
placed as to illuminate with a white light the rear registration plate, when
such registration plate is required, and render it legible from a distance of
50 feet to the rear. Any tail light, together with any separate light for
illuminating the rear registration plate, shall be so wired as to be lighted
whenever the headlights or auxiliary driving lights are lighted, except where
separate lighting systems are provided for trailers for the purpose of
illuminating such registration plate.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.05) (Prior Code, § 7.02.05)
§ 74.006 RED REFLECTORS REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   Every new motor vehicle sold after September 6, 1941, and
operated on a highway, other than a commercial tractor to which a trailer or
semitrailer is attached, shall carry at the rear, either as a part of the tail
lamps or separately, two red reflectors meeting the requirements of this
section, except that vehicles of the type mentioned in R.C. § 4513.07 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance shall be equipped with reflectors
as required by the regulations provided for in that section.
      (2)   Every such reflector shall be of such size and characteristics and
so maintained as to be visible at night from all distances within 300 feet to
50 feet from such vehicle.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.06) (Prior Code, § 7.02.06)
§ 74.007 LIGHTING OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   When the Director of Public Safety prescribes and promulgates
regulations relating to clearance lights, marker lights, reflectors and stop
lights on buses, trucks, commercial tractors, trailers, semitrailers and pole
trailers, when operated upon any highway, these vehicles shall be equipped as
required by such regulations, and such equipment shall be lighted at all times
mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
except that clearance lights and side marker lights need not be lighted on any
such vehicle when it is operated within the municipality where there is
sufficient light to reveal any person or substantial object on the highway at a
distance of 500 feet.
      (2)   Such equipment shall be in addition to all other lights
specifically required by R.C. §§ 4513.03 through 4513.16, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinances.
      (3)   Vehicles operated under the jurisdiction of the Public Utilities
Commission are not subject to this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.07) (Prior Code, § 7.02.07)
§ 74.008 OBSCURED LIGHTS ON VEHICLES.
   Whenever motor and other vehicles are operated in combination during the
time that lights are required, any light, except tail lights, which by reason
of its location on a vehicle of the combination would be obscured by another
vehicle of the combination, need not be lighted, but this section does not
affect the requirement that lighted clearance lights be displayed on the front
of the foremost vehicle required to have clearance lights or that all lights
required on the rear of the rearmost vehicle of any combination shall be
lighted.
(R.C. § 4513.08) (Prior Code, § 7.02.08)
§ 74.009 RED FLAG OR LIGHT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Whenever the load upon any vehicle extends to the rear four feet or
more beyond the bed or body of this vehicle, there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear end of the load, at the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, a red light or lantern plainly
visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the sides and rear. The red
light or lantern required by this section is in addition to the red rear light
required upon every vehicle. At any other time there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear end of such load a red flag or cloth not less than 16 inches
square.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.09) (Prior Code, § 7.02.09)
§ 74.010 LIGHTS ON PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Except in case of an emergency, whenever a vehicle is parked or
stopped upon a roadway open to traffic or a shoulder adjacent thereto, whether
attended or unattended, during the times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, such vehicle shall be equipped
with one or more lights which shall exhibit a white or amber light on the
roadway side visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front of such vehicle,
and a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear. No lights need
be displayed upon any such vehicle when it is stopped or parked within the
municipality where there is sufficient light to reveal any person or
substantial object within a distance of 500 feet upon such highway. Any lighted
headlights upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or dimmed.
(R.C. § 4513.10)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
(Prior Code, § 7.02.10)
§ 74.011 LIGHTS ON SLOW MOVING VEHICLES.
   (A)   All vehicles other than bicycles, including animal-drawn vehicles and
vehicles referred to in R.C. § 4513.02(G), not specifically required to be
equipped with lamps or other lighting devices by R.C. §§ 4513.03 through
4513.10, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, shall, at the
times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, be equipped with at least one lamp displaying a white light visible
from a distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the front of the vehicle and
also shall be equipped with two lamps displaying red light visible from a
distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the rear of the vehicle, or as an
alternative, one lamp displaying a red light visible from a distance of not
less than 1,000 feet to the rear and two red reflectors visible from all
distances of 600 feet to 100 feet to the rear when illuminated by the lawful
lower beams of headlamps. Lamps and reflectors required by this section shall
meet standards adopted by the Director of Public Safety.
   (B)   All boat trailers, farm machinery and other machinery, including all
road construction machinery, upon a street or highway, except when being used
in actual construction and maintenance work in an area guarded by a flagperson,
or where flares are used, or when operating or traveling within the limits of a
construction area designated by the Director of Transportation, a city or
village engineer, or the county engineer of the several counties, when such
construction area is marked in accordance with requirements of the Director and
the Manual and Specifications for a Uniform System of Traffic-Control Devices,
as set forth in R.C. § 4511.09, which is designed for operation at a speed of
25 mph or less, shall be operated at a speed not exceeding 25 mph, and shall
display a triangular slow-moving vehicle emblem (SMV). The emblem shall be
mounted so as to be visible from a distance of not less than 500 feet to the
rear. The Director of Public Safety shall adopt standards and specifications
for the design and position of mounting the SMV emblem. The standards and
specifications for SMV emblems referred to in this section shall correlate with
and, so far as possible, conform with those approved by the American Society of
Agricultural Engineers. A unit of farm machinery that is designed by its
manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 mph may be operated on a
street or highway at a speed greater than 25 mph provided it is operated in
accordance with this section. As used in this division, “machinery” does not
include any vehicle designed to be drawn by an animal.
   (C)   The use of the SMV emblem shall be restricted to animal-drawn vehicles
and to the slow- moving vehicles specified in division (B) above operating or
traveling within the limits of the highway. Its use on slow-moving vehicles
being transported upon other types of vehicles or on any other type of vehicle
or stationary object on the highway is prohibited.
   (D)   (1)   No person shall sell, lease, rent or operate any boat trailer,
farm machinery or other machinery defined as a slow-moving vehicle in division
(B) above, except those units designed to be completely mounted on a primary
power unit, which is manufactured or assembled on or after April 1, 1966,
unless the vehicle is equipped with a slow-moving vehicle emblem mounting
device as specified in division (B) above.
      (2)   No person shall sell, lease, rent or operate on a street or highway
any unit of farm machinery that is designed by its manufacturer to operate at a
speed greater than 25 mph unless the unit displays a slow-moving vehicle emblem
as specified in division (B) above and a speed identification symbol that meets
the specifications contained in the American Society of Agricultural Engineers
Standard ANSI/ASAE S584 JAN2005, Agricultural Equipment: Speed Identification
Symbol (SIS).
   (E)   Any boat trailer, farm machinery or other machinery defined as a slow-
moving vehicle in division (B) above, in addition to the use of the slow-moving
vehicle emblem, and any unit of farm machinery that is designed by its
manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 mph, in addition to the
display of a speed identification symbol, may be equipped with a red flashing
light that shall be visible from a distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the
rear at all times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance. When a double-faced light is used, it shall display amber
light to the front and red light to the rear. In addition to the lights
described in this division, farm machinery and motor vehicles escorting farm
machinery may display a flashing, oscillating or rotating amber light, as
permitted by R.C. § 4513.17 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
and also may display simultaneously flashing turn signals or warning lights, as
permitted by that section.
   (F)   (1)   Every animal-drawn vehicle upon a street or highway shall at all
times be equipped in one of the following ways:
         (a)   With a slow-moving vehicle emblem complying with division (B)
above;
         (b)   With alternate reflective material complying with rules adopted
under division (F)(2) below; or
         (c)   With both a slow-moving vehicle emblem and alternate reflective
material as specified in division (F)(2) below.
      (2)   Rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety, subject to R.C.
Chapter 119, establishing standards and specifications for the position of
mounting of the alternate reflective material authorized by this division,
permit, as a minimum, the alternate reflective material to be black, gray, or
silver in color. The alternate reflective material shall be mounted on the
animal-drawn vehicle so as to be visible, at all times specified in R.C. §
4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, from a distance of
not less than 500 feet to the rear when illuminated by the lawful lower beams
of headlamps.
   (G)   (1)   Every unit of farm machinery that is designed by its
manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 mph shall display a slow-
moving vehicle emblem and a speed identification symbol that meets the
specifications contained in the American Society of Agricultural Engineers
Standard ANSI/ASAE S584 JAN2005, Agricultural Equipment: Speed Identification
Symbol (SIS) when the unit is operated upon a street or highway, irrespective
of the speed at which the unit is operated on the street or highway. The speed
identification symbol shall indicate the maximum speed in miles per hour at
which the unit of farm machinery is designed by its manufacturer to operate.
The display of the speed identification symbol shall be in accordance with the
standard prescribed in this division.
      (2)   If an agricultural tractor that is designed by its manufacturer to
operate at a speed greater than 25 mph is being operated on a street or highway
at a speed greater than 25 mph and is towing, pulling, or otherwise drawing a
unit of farm machinery, the unit of farm machinery shall display a slow- moving
vehicle emblem and a speed identification symbol that is the same as the speed
identification symbol that is displayed on the agricultural tractor.
   (H)   When an agricultural tractor that is designed by its manufacturer to
operate at a speed greater than 25 mph is being operated on a street or highway
at a speed greater than 25 mph, the operator shall possess some documentation
published or provided by the manufacturer indicating the maximum speed in miles
per hour at which the manufacturer designed the agricultural tractor to
operate.
   (I)   As used in this section, BOAT TRAILER means any vehicle designed and
used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage and a marina,
or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or highway for a
distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 mph or less.
(R.C. § 4513.11)
   (J)   Lights and reflector requirements for multi-wheel agricultural
tractors or farm machinery.
      (1)   (a)   Every multi-wheel agricultural tractor whose model year was
2001 or earlier, when being operated or traveling on a street or highway at the
times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, at a minimum shall be equipped with and display reflectors and
illuminated amber lamps so that the extreme left and right projections of the
tractor are indicated by flashing lamps displaying amber light, visible to the
front and the rear; by amber reflectors, all visible to the front; and by red
reflectors, all visible to the rear.
         (b)   The lamps displaying amber light need not flash simultaneously
and need not flash in conjunction with any directional signals of the tractor.
         (c)   The lamps and reflectors required by division (J)(1)(a) above
and their placement shall meet standards and specifications contained in rules
adopted by the Director of Public Safety in accordance with R.C. Chapter 119.
The rules governing the amber lamps, amber reflectors, and red reflectors and
their placement shall correlate with and, as far as possible, conform with
paragraphs 4.1.4.1, 4.1.7.1 and 4.1.7.2, respectively, of the American Society
of Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S279.10 OCT98, Lighting and
Marking of Agricultural Equipment on Highways.
      (2)   Every unit of farm machinery whose model year was 2002 or later,
when being operated or traveling on a street or highway at the times specified
in R.C. § 4513.03, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be
equipped with and display markings and illuminated lamps that meet or exceed
the lighting, illumination, and marking standards and specifications that are
applicable to that type of farm machinery for the unit’s model year specified
in the American Society of Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S279.11
APR01, Lighting and Marking of Agricultural Equipment on Highways, or any
subsequent revisions of that standard.
      (3)   The lights and reflectors required by division (J)(1) above are in
addition to the slow- moving vehicle emblem and lights required or permitted by
R.C. § 4513.11 or 4513.17, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
to be displayed on farm machinery being operated or traveling on a street or
highway.
      (4)   No person shall operate any unit of farm machinery on a street or
highway or cause any unit of farm machinery to travel on a street or highway in
violation of divisions (J)(1) or (J)(2) above.
(R.C. § 4513.111)
   (K)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. §§ 4513.11(I), 4513.111(E))
(Prior Code, § 7.02.11)
§ 74.012 SPOTLIGHT AND AUXILIARY DRIVING LIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than one
spotlight and every lighted spotlight shall be so aimed and used upon
approaching another vehicle that no part of the high- intensity portion of the
beam will be directed to the left of the prolongation of the extreme left side
of the vehicle, nor more than 100 feet ahead of the vehicle.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than three
auxiliary driving lights mounted on the front of the vehicle. Any such lights
which do not conform to the specifications for auxiliary driving lights and the
regulations for their use prescribed by the Director of Public Safety shall not
be used.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.12) (Prior Code, § 7.02.12)
§ 74.013 COWL, FENDER AND BACK-UP LIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with side cowl or fender
lights which shall emit a white or amber light without glare.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with lights on each side thereof
which shall emit a white or amber light without glare.
      (3)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with back-up lights, either
separately or in combination with another light. No back-up lights shall be
continuously lighted when the motor vehicle is in forward motion.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.13) (Prior Code, § 7.02.13)
§ 74.014 TWO LIGHTS DISPLAYED.
   At all times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, at least two lighted lights shall be displayed, one near
each side of the front of every motor vehicle, except when such vehicle is
parked subject to the regulations governing lights on parked vehicles. Whoever
violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.14) (Prior Code, § 7.02.14)
§ 74.015 HEADLIGHTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Whenever a motor vehicle is being operated on a roadway or shoulder
adjacent thereto during the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the driver shall use a
distribution of light, or composite beam, directed high enough and of
sufficient intensity to reveal persons, vehicles and substantial objects at a
safe distance in advance of the vehicle, subject to the following requirements.
      (1)   Whenever the driver of a vehicle approaches an oncoming vehicle,
such driver shall use a distribution of light, or composite beam, so aimed that
the glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of the oncoming driver.
      (2)   Every new motor vehicle registered in this state which has
multiple-beam road lighting equipment shall be equipped with a beam indicator,
which shall be lighted whenever the uppermost distribution of light from the
headlights is in use, and shall not otherwise be lighted. This indicator shall
be so designed and located that, when lighted, it will be readily visible
without glare to the driver of the vehicle.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.15) (Prior Code, § 7.02.15)
§ 74.016 LIGHTS OF LESS INTENSITY ON SLOW MOVING VEHICLES.
   (A)   Any motor vehicle may be operated under the conditions specified in
R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance when it is
equipped with two lighted lights upon the front thereof capable of revealing
persons and substantial objects 75 feet ahead, in lieu of lights required in
R.C. § 4513.14 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, provided that
such vehicle shall not be operated at a speed in excess of 20 mph.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.16) (Prior Code, § 7.02.16)
§ 74.017 NUMBER OF LIGHTS PERMITTED; RED AND FLASHING LIGHTS.
   (A)   Whenever a motor vehicle equipped with headlights is also equipped
with any auxiliary lights or spotlight or any other light on the front thereof
projecting a beam of an intensity greater than 300 candlepower, not more than a
total of five of any such lights on the front of a vehicle shall be lighted at
any one time when the vehicle is upon a highway.
   (B)   Any lighted light or illuminating device upon a motor vehicle, other
than headlights, spotlights, signal lights, or auxiliary driving lights, that
projects a beam of light of an intensity greater than 300 candlepower shall be
so directed that no part of the beam will strike the level of the roadway on
which the vehicle stands at a distance of more than 75 feet from the vehicle.
   (C)   (1)   Flashing lights are prohibited on motor vehicles, except as a
means for indicating a right or a left turn, or in the presence of vehicular
traffic hazard requiring unusual care in approaching, or overtaking or passing.
This prohibition does not apply to emergency vehicles, road service vehicles
servicing or towing a disabled vehicle, stationary waste collection vehicles
actively collecting garbage, refuse, trash or recyclable materials on the
roadside, rural mail delivery vehicles, vehicles as provided in R.C. § 4513.182
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, highway maintenance
vehicles, funeral hearses, funeral escort vehicles and similar equipment
operated by the Department or local authorities, which shall be equipped with
and display, when used on a street or highway for the special purpose
necessitating such lights, a flashing, oscillating or rotating amber light, but
shall not display a flashing, oscillating or rotating light of any other color,
nor to vehicles or machinery permitted by R.C. § 4513.11 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance to have a flashing red light.
      (2)   When used on a street or highway, farm machinery and vehicles
escorting farm machinery may be equipped with and display a flashing,
oscillating or rotating amber light, and the prohibition contained in division
(C)(1) above does not apply to such machinery or vehicles. Farm machinery may
also display the lights described in R.C. § 4513.11 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Except a person operating a public safety vehicle, as defined in R.C.
§ 4511.01(E), or a school bus, no person shall operate, move or park upon or
permit to stand within the right-of-way of any public street or highway any
vehicle or equipment that is equipped with and displaying a flashing red or a
flashing combination red and white light, or an oscillating or rotating red
light, or a combination red and white oscillating or rotating light; and except
a public law enforcement officer, or other person sworn to enforce the criminal
and traffic laws of the state, operating a public safety vehicle when on duty,
no person shall operate, move or park upon or permit to stand within the right-
of-way of any street or highway any vehicle or equipment that is equipped with,
or upon which is mounted, and displaying a flashing blue or a flashing
combination blue and white light, or an oscillating or rotating blue light, or
a combination blue and white oscillating or rotating light.
   (E)   This section does not prohibit the use of warning lights required by
law or the simultaneous flashing of turn signals on disabled vehicles or on
vehicles being operated in unfavorable atmospheric conditions in order to
enhance their visibility. This section also does not prohibit the simultaneous
flashing of turn signals or warning lights whether on farm machinery or
vehicles escorting farm machinery when used on a street or highway.
(R.C. § 4513.17)
   (F)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a motor vehicle
operated by a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator may be equipped
with a flashing, oscillating or rotating red or blue light and siren, whistle
or bell capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions from a
distance of not less than 500 feet. Such a vehicle may display the flashing,
oscillating or rotating red or blue light and may give the audible signal of
the siren, whistle or bell only when responding to a fatality or a fatal motor
vehicle accident on a street or highway and only at those locations where the
stoppage of traffic impedes the ability of the coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator to arrive at the site of the fatality.
      (2)   This division (F) does not relieve the coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle from the duty to drive with
due regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4513.171)
   (G)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. §§ 4513.17(F), 4513.171(B))
(Prior Code, § 7.02.17)
§ 74.018 LIGHTS MUST BE PROPERLY FOCUSED.
   (A)   No person shall use any lights mentioned in R.C. §§ 4513.03 through
4513.18, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, upon any motor
vehicle, trailer or semitrailer unless these lights are equipped, mounted and
adjusted as to focus and aim in accordance with regulations which are
prescribed by the Director of Public Safety.
   (B)   The headlights on any motor vehicle shall comply with the headlamp
color requirements contained in Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number
108, 49 C.F.R. § 571.108. No person shall operate a motor vehicle in violation
of this division.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.19) (Prior Code, § 7.02.18)
§ 74.019 BRAKE EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The following requirements govern as to brake equipment on vehicles:
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, when operated upon a
highway shall be equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and
to stop and hold the motor vehicle, including two separate means of applying
the brakes, each of which means shall be effective to apply the brakes to at
least two wheels. If these two separate means of applying the brakes are
connected in any way, then on such motor vehicles, manufactured or assembled
after January 1, 1942, they shall be so constructed that failure of any one
part of the operating mechanism shall not leave the motor vehicle without
brakes on at least two wheels.
      (2)   Every motorcycle, when operated upon a highway shall be equipped
with at least one adequate brake, which may be operated by hand or by foot.
      (3)   Every motorized bicycle shall be equipped with brakes meeting the
rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety under R.C. § 4511.521.
      (4)   When operated upon the highways, the following vehicles shall be
equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and to
hold the vehicle, designed to be applied by the driver of the towing motor
vehicle from its cab, and also designed and connected so that, in case of a
breakaway of the towed vehicle, the brakes shall be automatically applied:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, every trailer or
semitrailer, except a pole trailer, with an empty weight of 2,000 pounds or
more, manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1942; and
         (b)   Every manufactured home or travel trailer with an empty weight
of 2,000 pounds or more, manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 2001.
      (5)   Every watercraft trailer with a gross weight or manufacturer’s
gross vehicle weight rating of 3,000 pounds or more that is manufactured or
assembled on or after January 1, 2008, shall have separate brakes equipped with
hydraulic surge or electrically operated brakes on two wheels.
      (6)   In any combination of motor-drawn trailers or semitrailers equipped
with brakes, means shall be provided for applying the rearmost brakes in
approximate synchronism with the brakes on the towing vehicle, and developing
the required braking effort on the rearmost wheels at the fastest rate; or
means shall be provided for applying braking effort first on the rearmost
brakes; or both of the above means, capable of being used alternatively, may be
employed.
      (7)   Every vehicle and combination of vehicles, except motorcycles and
motorized bicycles, and except trailers and semitrailers of a gross weight of
less than 2,000 pounds, and pole trailers, shall be equipped with parking
brakes adequate to hold the vehicle on any grade on which it is operated, under
all conditions of loading, on a surface free from snow, ice or loose material.
The parking brakes shall be capable of being applied in conformance with the
foregoing requirements by the driver’s muscular effort or by spring action or
by equivalent means. Their operation may be assisted by the service brakes or
other source of power provided that failure of the service brake actuation
system or other power assisting mechanism will not prevent the parking brakes
from being applied in conformance with the foregoing requirements. The parking
brakes shall be so designed that when once applied they shall remain applied
with the required effectiveness despite exhaustion of any source of energy or
leakage of any kind.
      (8)   The same brake drums, brake shoes and lining assemblies, brake shoe
anchors and mechanical brake shoe actuation mechanism normally associated with
the wheel brake assemblies may be used for both the service brakes and the
parking brakes. If the means of applying the parking brakes and the service
brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so constructed that failure of
any one part shall not leave the vehicle without operative brakes.
      (9)   Every motor vehicle or combination of motor-drawn vehicles shall,
at all times and under all conditions of loading, be capable of being stopped
on a dry, smooth, level road free from loose material, upon application of the
service or foot brake, within the following specified distances, or shall be
capable of being decelerated at a sustained rate corresponding to these
distances.
         (a)   Vehicles or combinations of vehicles having brakes on all wheels
shall come to a stop in 30 feet or less from a speed of 20 mph.
         (b)   Vehicles or combinations of vehicles not having brakes on all
wheels shall come to a stop in 40 feet or less from a speed of 20 mph.
      (10)   All brakes shall be maintained in good working order and shall be
so adjusted as to operate as equally as practicable with respect to the wheels
on opposite sides of the vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.20)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
(Prior Code, § 7.02.19)
§ 74.020 HORNS, SIRENS AND WARNING DEVICES; QUIET ZONES.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle when operated upon a highway shall be
equipped with a horn which is in good working order and capable of emitting
sound audible, under normal conditions, from a distance of not less than 200
feet.
      (2)   No motor vehicle shall be equipped with, nor shall any person use
upon a vehicle, any siren, whistle or bell. Any vehicle may be equipped with a
theft alarm signal device which shall be so arranged that it cannot be used as
an ordinary warning signal. Every emergency vehicle shall be equipped with a
siren, whistle or bell, capable of emitting sound audible under normal
conditions from a distance of not less than 500 feet and of a type approved by
the Director of Public Safety. Such equipment shall not be used except when
such vehicle is operated in response to an emergency call or is in the
immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law, in which case
the driver of the emergency vehicle shall sound such equipment when it is
necessary to warn pedestrians and other drivers of the approach thereof.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.21) (Prior Code, § 7.02.20)
§ 74.021 MUFFLERS; EXCESSIVE SMOKE OR GAS.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle and motorcycle with an internal combustion
engine shall at all times be equipped with a muffler which is in good working
order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise, and no
person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass or similar device upon a motor
vehicle on a highway. Every motorcycle muffler shall be equipped with baffle
plates.
      (2)   No person shall own, operate or have in the person’s possession any
motor vehicle or motorcycle equipped with a device for producing excessive
smoke or gas, or so equipped as to permit oil or any other chemical to flow
into or upon the exhaust pipe or muffler of such vehicle, or equipped in any
way to produce or emit smoke or dangerous or annoying gases from any portion of
such vehicle, other than the ordinary gases emitted by the exhaust of an
internal combustion engine under normal operation.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.22) (Prior Code, § 7.02.21)
§ 74.022 MIRRORS; VISIBILITY TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle and motorcycle shall be equipped with a mirror so
located as to reflect to the operator a view of the highway to the rear of such
vehicle or motorcycle. Operators of vehicles and motorcycles shall have a clear
and unobstructed view to the front and to both sides of their vehicles and
motorcycles and shall have a clear view to the rear of their vehicles and
motorcycles by mirror.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.23) (Prior Code, § 7.02.22)
§ 74.023 SIGNS ON WINDSHIELD; WIPERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle on a street or highway in this
municipality, other than a motorcycle or motorized bicycle, that is not
equipped with a windshield.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle, other than a bus, with
any sign, poster or other nontransparent material upon the front windshield,
sidewings, side or rear windows of such vehicle other than a certificate or
other paper required to be displayed by law, except that there may be in the
lower left-hand or right-hand corner of the windshield a sign, poster or decal
not to exceed four inches in height by six inches in width. No sign, poster or
decal shall be displayed in the front windshield in such a manner as to conceal
the vehicle identification number for the motor vehicle when, in accordance
with federal law, that number is located inside the vehicle passenger
compartment and so placed as to be readable through the vehicle glazing without
moving any part of the vehicle.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) above does not apply to a person who is driving a
passenger car with an electronic device, including an antenna, electronic
tolling or other transponder, camera, directional navigation device or other
similar electronic device located in the front windshield if the device meets
both of the following.
         (a)   It does not restrict the vehicle operator’s sight lines to the
road and highway signs and signals.
         (b)   It does not conceal the vehicle identification number.
      (3)   Division (B)(1) above does not apply to a person who is driving a
commercial car with an electronic device, including an antenna, electronic
tolling or other transponder, camera, directional navigation device or other
similar electronic device located in the front windshield if the device meets
both of the following.
         (a)   It does not restrict the vehicle operator’s sight lines to the
road and highway signs and signals.
         (b)   It is mounted not more than six inches below the upper edge of
the windshield and is outside the area swept by the vehicle’s windshield
wipers.
   (C)   The windshield on every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device
for cleaning rain, snow or other moisture from the windshield. The device shall
be maintained in good working order and so constructed as to be controlled or
operated by the operator of the vehicle.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.24) (Prior Code, § 7.02.23)
§ 74.024 REQUIREMENTS FOR SOLID TIRES.
   (A)   Every solid tire, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01, on a vehicle shall
have rubber or other resilient material on its entire traction surface at least
one inch thick above the edge of the flange of the entire periphery.
(R.C. § 4513.25)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
(Prior Code, § 7.02.24)
§ 74.025 STUDDED TIRES; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, STUDDED TIRE means any tire designed
for use on a vehicle and equipped with metal studs or studs of wear-resisting
material that project beyond the tread of the traction surface of the tire.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) below, no person shall
operate any motor vehicle other than a public safety vehicle or school bus that
is equipped with studded tires on any street or highway in this municipality,
except during the period extending from the first day of November of each year
through the fifteenth day of April of the succeeding year.
      (2)   A person may operate a motor vehicle that is equipped with
retractable studded tires with the studs retracted at any time of the year, but
shall operate the motor vehicle with the studs extended only as provided in
division (B)(1) above.
   (C)   This section does not apply to the use of tire chains when there is
snow or ice on the streets or highways where such chains are being used, or the
immediate vicinity thereof.
(R.C. § 5589.081)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 5589.99(B))
(Prior Code, § 7.02.25)
§ 74.026 SAFETY GLASS REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Safety glass.
      (1)   No person shall sell any new motor vehicle nor shall any new motor
vehicle be registered, and no person shall operate any motor vehicle, which is
registered in this state and which has been manufactured or assembled on or
after January 1, 1936, unless the motor vehicle is equipped with safety glass,
wherever glass is used in the windshields, doors, partitions, rear windows and
windows on each side immediately adjacent to the rear window.
      (2)   As used in this section, SAFETY GLASS means any product composed of
glass so manufactured, fabricated or treated as substantially to prevent
shattering and flying of the glass when it is struck or broken, or such other
or similar product as may be approved by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles.
      (3)   Glass other than safety glass shall not be offered for sale, or
sold for use in, or installed in any door, window, partition or windshield that
is required by this section to be equipped with safety glass.
(R.C. § 4513.26)
   (B)   Tinted or reflectorized material.
      (1)   No person shall operate, on any highway or other public or private
property open to the public for vehicular travel or parking, lease or rent any
motor vehicle that is registered in this state unless the motor vehicle
conforms to the requirements concerning tinted glass and reflectorized material
of R.C. § 4513.241 and of any applicable rule adopted under that section.
      (2)   No person shall install in or on any motor vehicle, any glass or
other material that fails to conform to the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or
of any rule adopted under that section.
      (3)   (a)   No used motor vehicle dealer or new motor vehicle dealer, as
defined in R.C. § 4517.01, shall sell any motor vehicle that fails to conform
to the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or of any rule adopted under that
section.
         (b)   No manufacturer, remanufacturer or distributor, as defined in
R.C. § 4517.01, shall provide to a motor vehicle dealer licensed under R.C.
Chapter 4517 or to any other person, a motor vehicle that fails to conform to
the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or of any rule adopted under that section.
      (4)   No reflectorized materials shall be permitted upon or in any front
windshield, side windows, sidewings, or rear window.
      (5)   This division (B) does not apply to the manufacturer’s tinting or
glazing of motor vehicle windows or windshields that is otherwise in compliance
with or permitted by Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard #205.
      (6)   With regard to any side window behind a driver’s seat or any rear
window other than any window on an emergency door, this division (B) does not
apply to any school bus used to transport a child with disabilities pursuant to
R.C. Chapter 3323, whom it is impossible or impractical to transport by regular
school bus in the course of regular route transportation provided by a school
district. As used in this division, CHILD WITH DISABILITIES has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 3323.01.
      (7)   This division (B) does not apply to any school bus that is to be
sold and operated outside the municipality.
      (8)   (a)   This division (B) does not apply to a motor vehicle used by a
law enforcement agency under either of the following circumstances:
            1.   The vehicle does not have distinctive markings of a law
enforcement vehicle but is operated by or on behalf of the law enforcement
agency in an authorized investigation or other activity requiring that the
presence and identity of the vehicle occupants be undisclosed.
            2.   The vehicle primarily is used by the law enforcement canine
unit for transporting a police dog.
         (b)   As used in this division, LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY means a police
department, the office of a sheriff, the State Highway Patrol, a county
prosecuting attorney or a federal, state or local governmental body that
enforces criminal laws and that has employees who have a statutory power of
arrest.
(R.C. § 4513.241(C) - (J))
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) above is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(1),(B)(3)(b) or (B)(4) above is
guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(3)(a) above is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor if the dealer or the dealer’s agent knew of the nonconformity at
the time of sale.
      (4)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) above is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree, except that an organization may not be
convicted unless the act of installation was authorized by the board of
directors, trustees, partners or by a high managerial officer acting on behalf
of the organization, and installation was performed by an employee of the
organization acting within the scope of the person’s employment.
         (b)   In addition to any other penalty imposed under this section,
whoever violates division (B)(2) above is liable in a civil action to the owner
of a motor vehicle on which was installed the nonconforming glass or material
for any damages incurred by that person as a result of the installation of the
nonconforming glass or material, costs of maintaining the civil action, and
attorney fees.
         (c)   In addition to any other penalty imposed under this section, if
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation
of division (B)(2) above and the offender is a motor vehicle repair operator
registered under R.C. Chapter 4775 or a motor vehicle dealer licensed under
R.C. Chapter 4517, whoever violates division (B)(2) above is subject to a
registration or license suspension, as applicable, for a period of not more
than 180 days.
(R.C. § 4513.241(K))
(Prior Code, § 7.02.26)
Statutory reference:
   Recording and reporting violations, certain court requirements, see R.C. §
4513.241(L)
§ 74.027 REQUIREMENTS FOR VEHICLES TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVES.
   Any person operating any vehicle transporting explosives upon the highways,
streets or alleys of this city shall, at all times, comply with the following
provisions:
   (A)   Such vehicle shall be marked or placarded on each side and the rear
with the word “explosives” in letters not less than eight inches high, or there
shall be displayed on the rear of such vehicle a red flag not less than 24
inches square marked with the word “danger” in white letters six inches high,
or shall be marked or placarded in accordance with § 177.823 of the United
States Department of Transportation Regulations, being 49 C.F.R. § 177.823;
   (B)   Every such vehicle shall be equipped with not less than two fire
extinguishers, filled and ready for immediate use, and placed at convenient
points on the vehicle so used; and
   (C)   Such operator shall also comply with any other regulations prescribed
by the State Director of Transportation.
(Prior Code, § 7.02.27)
§ 74.028 WHEEL PROTECTORS OR FLAPS.
   (A)   No person shall drive or operate, or cause to be driven or operated,
any commercial car, trailer or semitrailer, used for the transportation of
goods or property, the gross weight of which, with load, exceeds three tons,
upon the public highways, streets, bridges and culverts within the
municipality, unless such vehicle is equipped with suitable metal protectors or
substantial flexible flaps on the rearmost wheels of such vehicle or
combination of vehicles to prevent, as far as practicable, the wheels from
throwing dirt, water or other materials on the windshields of following
vehicles. Such protectors or flaps shall have a ground clearance of not more
than one-third of the distance from the center of the rearmost axle to the
center of the flaps under any conditions of loading of the vehicle, and they
shall be at least as wide as the tires they are protecting. If the vehicle is
so designed and constructed that such requirements are accomplished by means of
fenders, body construction or other means of enclosure, then no such protectors
or flaps are required. Rear wheels not covered at the top by fenders, bodies or
other parts of the vehicle shall be covered at the top by protective means
extending at least to the center line of the rearmost axle.
(R.C. § 5577.11)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $25.
(R.C. § 5577.99(E))
(Prior Code, § 7.02.28)
§ 74.029 DISPLAY OF WARNING DEVICES ON DISABLED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any motor truck, bus, commercial tractor, trailer,
semitrailer or pole trailer is disabled upon any freeway, expressway, thruway
and connecting, entering or exiting ramps within the municipality, at any time
when lighted lamps are required on vehicles, the operator of such vehicle shall
display the following warning devices upon the highway during the time the
vehicle is so disabled on the highway except as provided in division (B) below:
      (1)   A lighted fusee shall be immediately placed on the roadway at the
traffic side of such vehicle, unless red electric lanterns or red reflectors
are displayed.
      (2)   Within the burning period of the fusee and as promptly as possible,
three lighted flares or pot torches, or three red reflectors or three red
electric lanterns shall be placed on the roadway as follows:
         (a)   One at a distance of 40 paces or approximately 100 feet in
advance of the vehicle;
         (b)   One at a distance of 40 paces or approximately 100 feet to the
rear of the vehicle, except as provided in this section, each in the center of
the lane of traffic occupied by the disabled vehicle; and
         (c)   One at the traffic side of the vehicle.
   (B)   Whenever any vehicle used in transporting flammable liquids in bulk,
or in transporting compressed flammable gases, is disabled upon a highway at
any time or place mentioned in division (A) above, the driver of such vehicle
shall display upon the roadway the following warning devices:
      (1)   One red electric lantern or one red reflector shall be immediately
placed on the roadway at the traffic side of the vehicle;
      (2)   Two other red electric lanterns or two other red reflectors shall
be placed to the front and rear of the vehicle in the same manner prescribed
for flares in division (A) above.
   (C)   When a vehicle of a type specified in division (B) above is disabled,
the use of flares, fusees or any signal produced by flame as warning signals is
prohibited.
   (D)   Whenever any vehicle of a type referred to in this section is disabled
upon any freeway, expressway, thruway and connecting, entering or exiting ramps
within the municipality, at any time when the display of fusees, flares, red
reflectors or electric lanterns is not required, the operator of such vehicle
shall display two red flags upon the roadway in the lane of traffic occupied by
the disabled vehicle, one at a distance of 40 paces or approximately 100 feet
in advance of the vehicle, and one at a distance of 40 paces or approximately
100 feet to the rear of the vehicle, except as provided in this section.
   (E)   The flares, fusees, lanterns, red reflectors and flags to be displayed
as required in this section shall conform with the applicable requirements of
R.C. § 4513.27 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (F)   In the event the vehicle is disabled near a curve, crest of a hill, or
other obstruction of view, the flare, flag, reflector or lantern in that
direction shall be placed as to afford ample warning to other users of the
highway, but in no case shall it be placed less than 40 paces or approximately
100 feet nor more than 120 paces or approximately 300 feet from the disabled
vehicle.
   (G)   This section does not apply to the operator of any vehicle in a work
area designated by protection equipment devices that are displayed and used in
accordance with the manual adopted by the Department of Transportation under
R.C. § 4511.09.
   (H)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.28) (Prior Code, § 7.02.29)
§ 74.030 PROJECTING MATERIAL; LEFT SIDE AND REAR OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   (1)   No passenger-type vehicle shall be operated on a highway with
any load carried on the vehicle which extends more than six inches beyond the
line of the fenders on the vehicle’s left side.
(R.C. § 4513.30)
      (2)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
   (B)   (1)   Whenever the load upon any vehicle extends to the rear four feet
or more beyond the bed or body of this vehicle, there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear end of the load, at the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, a red light or lantern plainly
visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the sides and rear. The red
light or lantern required by this section is in addition to the red rear light
required upon every vehicle. At any other time there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear end of such load a red flag or cloth not less than 16 inches
square.
      (2)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.09)
(Prior Code, § 7.02.30)
§ 74.031 ALL LOADS SHALL BE PROPERLY SECURED.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any highway unless the vehicle
is so constructed, loaded or covered as to prevent any of its load from
dropping, sifting, leaking or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand or
other substances may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water
or other substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining
the roadway.
   (B)   Except for a farm vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or
agricultural production materials or a rubbish vehicle in the process of
acquiring its load, no vehicle loaded with garbage, swill, cans, bottles, waste
paper, ashes, refuse, trash, rubbish, waste, wire, paper, cartons, boxes,
glass, solid waste or any other material of an unsanitary nature that is
susceptible to blowing or bouncing from a moving vehicle shall be driven or
moved on any highway unless the load is covered with a sufficient cover to
prevent the load or any part of the load from spilling onto the highway.
(R.C. § 4513.31)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
(Prior Code, § 7.02.31)
§ 74.032 TOWING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   When one vehicle is towing another vehicle, the drawbar or other
connection shall be of sufficient strength to pull all the weight towed
thereby, and the drawbar or other connection shall not exceed 15 feet from one
vehicle to the other, except the connection between any two vehicles
transporting poles, pipe, machinery or other objects of structural nature which
cannot readily be dismembered.
      (2)   When one vehicle is towing another and the connection consists only
of a chain, rope or cable, there shall be displayed upon such connection a
white flag or cloth not less than 12 inches square.    
      (3)   In addition to such drawbar or other connection, each trailer and
each semitrailer which is not connected to a commercial tractor by means of a
fifth wheel shall be coupled with stay chains or cables to the vehicle by which
it is being drawn. These chains or cables shall be of sufficient size and
strength to prevent the towed vehicle’s parting from the drawing vehicle in
case the drawbar or other connection should break or become disengaged. In case
of a loaded pole trailer, the connecting pole to the drawing vehicle shall be
coupled to the drawing vehicle with stay chains or cables of sufficient size
and strength to prevent the towed vehicle’s parting from the drawing vehicle.
      (4)   Every trailer or semitrailer, except pole and cable trailers and
pole and cable dollies operated by a public utility as defined in R.C. §
5727.01, shall be equipped with a coupling device which shall be so designed
and constructed that the trailer will follow substantially in the path of the
vehicle drawing it, without whipping or swerving from side to side. Vehicles
used to transport agricultural produce or agricultural production materials
between a local place of storage and supply and the farm, when drawn or towed
on a street or highway at a speed of 25 mph or less, and vehicles designed and
used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage and a marina,
or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or highway for a
distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 mph or less, shall have
a drawbar or other connection, including the hitch mounted on the towing
vehicle, which shall be of sufficient strength to pull all the weight towed
thereby. Only one such vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or
agricultural production materials as provided in this section may be towed or
drawn at one time except as follows.
         (a)   An agricultural tractor may tow or draw more than one such
vehicle.
         (b)   A pickup truck or straight truck designed by the manufacturer to
carry a load of not less than one-half ton and not more than two tons may tow
or draw not more than two such vehicles that are being used to transport
agricultural produce from the farm to a local place of storage. No vehicle
being so towed by such a pickup truck or straight truck shall be considered to
be a motor vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.32)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
   (C)   Exception to size and weight restrictions.
      (1)   The size and weight provisions of this chapter and R.C. Chapter
5577 do not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   A person who is engaged in the initial towing or removal of a
wrecked or disabled motor vehicle from the site of an emergency on a public
highway where the vehicle became wrecked or disabled to the nearest site where
the vehicle can be brought into conformance with the requirements of this
chapter and R.C. Chapter 5577, to the nearest storage facility, or to the
nearest qualified repair facility;
         (b)   A person who is en route to the site of an emergency on a public
highway to remove a wrecked or disabled motor vehicle; and
         (c)   A person who is returning from delivering a wrecked or disabled
motor vehicle to a site, storage facility or repair facility as specified in
division (C)(1)(a) above.
      (2)   Any subsequent towing of a wrecked or disabled vehicle shall comply
with the size and weight provisions of this chapter and R.C. Chapter 5577.
      (3)   No court shall impose any penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99 or
the civil liability established in R.C. § 5577.12 upon a person who is
operating a vehicle in the manner described in division (C)(1) above.
(R.C. § 5577.15)
(Prior Code, § 7.02.32)
§ 74.033 OPERATION OF VEHICLES IN EXCESS OF PRESCRIBED WEIGHTS; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall operate or move a traction engine, steam roller or
other vehicle, load, object or structure, whether propelled by muscular or
motor power, over or upon the improved public streets, highways, bridges or
culverts in this municipality, that weighs in excess of the weights prescribed
in this subchapter or R.C. §§ 5577.01 et seq., unless the person has been
issued a permit under R.C. § 4513.34, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance. The prohibition in this section applies regardless of whether the
weight is moved upon wheels, rollers or otherwise. Any weight determination
shall include the weight of the vehicle, object, structure, contrivance and
load.
(R.C. § 5577.02)
   (B)   Whoever violates the weight provisions of this section shall be fined
$80 for the first 2,000 pounds, or fraction thereof, of overload; for overloads
in excess of 2,000 pounds, but not in excess of 5,000 pounds, such person shall
be fined $100, and in addition thereto $1 per 100 pounds of overload; for
overloads in excess of 5,000 pounds but not in excess of 10,000 pounds, such
person shall be fined $130, and in addition thereto $2 per 100 pounds of
overload, or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both. For all overloads in
excess of 10,000 pounds, such person shall be fined $160, and in addition
thereto $3 per 100 pounds of overload, or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or
both. Whoever violates the weight provisions of vehicle and load relating to
gross load limits shall be fined not less than $100. No penalty prescribed in
this division (B)(2) shall be imposed on any vehicle combination if the
overload on any one axle does not exceed 1,000 pounds, and if the immediately
preceding or following axle, excepting the front axle of the vehicle
combination, is underloaded by the same or greater amount. For purposes of this
division (B)(2), two axles on one vehicle less than eight feet apart shall be
considered as one axle.
(R.C. § 5577.99(A))
   (C)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AXLE. One or more load-carrying wheels mounted in a single transverse
vertical plane.
      MAXIMUM AXLE LOAD. The gross weight of vehicle and load imposed by any
axle upon the road surface.
      MAXIMUM WHEEL LOAD. The proportionate gross weight of vehicle and load
imposed by any wheel upon the road surface.
      SPACING BETWEEN AXLES. The distance between any two successive such
planes.
(R.C. § 5577.01(A)(1) through (4))
(Prior Code, § 7.02.33)
§ 74.034 WEIGHT OF LOAD; WIDTH OF TIRE.
   (A)   Weight of load; width of tire. No person, firm or corporation shall
transport over the improved public streets, alleys, intercounty highways, state
highways, bridges or culverts in this municipality, in any vehicle propelled by
muscular, motor or other power, any burden, including weight of vehicle and
load, greater than the following:
      (1)   (a)   In vehicles having metal tires three inches or less in width,
a load of 500 pounds for each inch of the total width of the tire on all
wheels; and
         (b)   When the tires on such vehicles exceed three inches in width, an
additional load of 800 pounds shall be permitted for each inch by which the
total width of the tires on all wheels exceeds 12 inches.
      (2)   In vehicles having tires of rubber or other similar substance, for
each inch of the total width of tires on all wheels, as follows:
 
Tire Width (in inches) Load Limit (in pounds)
3.5                    450
6 and over             650
 
      (3)   The total width of tires on all wheels shall be, in the case of
solid tires of rubber or other similar substance, the actual width in inches of
all such tires between the flanges at the base of the tires, but in no event
shall that portion of tire coming in contact with the road surface be less than
two- thirds the width so measured between the flanges.
      (4)   In the case of pneumatic tires, of rubber or other similar
substance, the total width of tires on all wheels shall be the actual width of
all such tires, measured at the widest portion thereof when inflated and not
bearing a load.
      (5)   In no event shall the load, including the proportionate weight of
vehicle that can be concentrated on any wheel, exceed 650 pounds to each inch
in width of the tread as defined in this division (A) for solid tires, or each
inch in the actual diameter of pneumatic tires measured when inflated and not
bearing a load.
(R.C. § 5577.03)
   (B)   Vehicles with pneumatic tires, load limits.
      (1)   The maximum wheel load of any one wheel of any vehicle, load,
object or structure operated or moved upon improved public highways, streets,
bridges or culverts shall not exceed 650 pounds per inch width of pneumatic
tire, measured as prescribed by division (A) above.
      (2)   The weight of the vehicle and load imposed upon a road surface that
is part of the interstate system by vehicles with pneumatic tires shall not
exceed any of the following weight limitations:
         (a)   On any one axle, 20,000 pounds;
         (b)   On any tandem axle, 34,000 pounds; and
         (c)   On any two or more consecutive axles, the maximum weight as
determined by application of the formula provided in division (B)(3) below.
      (3)   For purposes of division (B)(2)(c) above, the maximum gross weight
on any two or more consecutive axles shall be determined by application of the
following formula: W = 500[(LN/–1) + 12N + 36]. In this formula, W equals the
overall gross weight on any group of two or more consecutive axles to the
nearest 500 pounds, L equals the distance in rounded whole feet between the
extreme of any group of two or more consecutive axles, and N equals the number
of axles in the group under consideration. However, two consecutive sets of
tandem axles may carry a gross load of 34,000 pounds each, provided the overall
distance between the first and last axles of such consecutive sets of tandem
axles is 36 feet or more.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (B)(9) below, the weight of vehicle
and load imposed upon a road surface that is not part of the interstate system
by vehicles with pneumatic tires shall not exceed any of the following weight
limitations:
         (a)   On any one axle, 20,000 pounds;
         (b)   On any two successive axles:
            1.   Spaced four feet or less apart, and weighed simultaneously,
24,000 pounds; and
            2.   Spaced more than four feet apart, and weighed simultaneously,
34,000 pounds, plus 1,000 pounds per foot or fraction thereof, over four feet,
not to exceed 40,000 pounds.
         (c)   On any three successive load-bearing axles designed to equalize
the load between such axles and spaced so that each such axle of the three-axle
group is more than four feet from the next axle in the three-axle group and so
that the spacing between the first axle and the third axle in the three-axle
group is no more than nine feet, and with such load-bearing three-axle group
weighed simultaneously as a unit:
            1.   A weight of 48,000 pounds, with the total weight of the
vehicle and load not exceeding 38,000 pounds plus an additional 900 pounds for
each foot of spacing between the front axle and the rearmost axle of the
vehicle;
            2.   As an alternative to division (B)(4)(c)1. above, 42,500
pounds, if part of a six-axle vehicle combination with at least 20 feet of
spacing between the front axle and rearmost axle, with the total weight of the
vehicle and load not exceeding 54,000 pounds plus an additional 600 pounds per
each foot of spacing between the front axle and the rearmost axle of the
vehicle.
         (d)   The total weight of the vehicle and load utilizing any
combination of axles, other than as provided for three-axle groups in division
(B)(4) above, shall not exceed 38,000 pounds plus an additional 900 pounds for
each foot of spacing between the front axle and the rearmost axle of the
vehicle.
      (5)   Notwithstanding divisions (B)(2) and (B)(4) above, the maximum
overall gross weight of a vehicle and load imposed upon the road surface shall
not exceed 80,000 pounds.
      (6)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, when a vehicle is
towing another vehicle, such drawbar or other connection shall be of a length
such as will limit the spacing between nearest axles of the respective vehicles
to a distance not in excess of 12.5 feet.
      (7)   As used in division (B)(2) above, TANDEM AXLE means two or more
consecutive axles whose centers may be included between parallel transverse
vertical planes spaced more than 40 inches but not more than 96 inches apart,
extending across the full width of the vehicle.
      (8)   This division (B) does not apply to passenger bus type vehicles
operated by a regional transit authority pursuant to R.C. §§ 306.30 through
306.54.
      (9)   Either division (B)(2) or (B)(4) above applies to the weight of a
vehicle and its load imposed upon any road surface that is not a part of the
interstate system by vehicles with pneumatic tires. As between divisions (B)(2)
and (B)(4) above, only the division that yields the highest total gross vehicle
weight limit shall be applied to any such vehicle. Once that division has been
determined, only the limits contained in the subdivisions of that division
shall apply to that vehicle.
(R.C. § 5577.04)
(Prior Code, § 7.02.34)
§ 74.035 MAXIMUM AXLE LOAD, WHEEL LOAD AND GROSS WEIGHTS FOR SOLID-TIRED
VEHICLES.
   (A)   No vehicle, load, object or structure having a maximum axle load
greater than 16,000 pounds when such vehicle is equipped with solid rubber
tires shall be operated or moved upon the improved public highways, streets,
bridges or culverts. The maximum wheel load of any one wheel of such vehicle
shall not exceed 650 pounds per inch width of tire, measured as prescribed by
this division (A), nor shall any solid tire or rubber or other resilient
material, on any wheel of any such vehicle, be less than one inch thick when
measure from the top of the flanges of the tire channel.
   (B)   The weight of vehicle and load imposed upon the road surface by any
two successive axles, spaces four feet or less apart, shall not exceed 19,000
pounds for solid tires; or by any two successive axles spaced more than four
feet but less than eight feet apart, shall not exceed 24,000 pounds for solid
tires; or by any two successive axles, spaced eight feet or more apart, shall
not exceed 28,000 pounds for solid tires; nor shall the total weight of vehicle
and load exceed, for solid rubber tires, 28,000 pounds plus an additional 600
pounds for each foot or fraction thereof of spacing between the front axle and
the rear-most axle of the vehicle; nor shall the weight of the vehicle and load
imposed upon the road surface by any vehicle equipped with solid rubber tires
exceed 80% of the permissible weight of vehicle and load as provided for
pneumatic tires.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, when a vehicle is towing
another vehicle, such drawbar or other connection shall be of a length such as
will limit the spacing between the nearest axles of the respective vehicles to
a distance not in excess of 12.5 feet. If the provisions of this section are
held to exceed the weight limitations or other provisions set forth in the
“Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1958”, 72 Stat. 902, 23 U.S.C. § 127, this division
(C) shall become null and void to the extent of such inconsistency.
(R.C. § 5577.041) (Prior Code, § 7.02.35)
§ 74.036 MAXIMUM AXLE LOAD, WHEEL LOAD, GROSS WEIGHTS, FOR PNEUMATIC TIRED
VEHICLES.
   (A)   The maximum wheel load of any one wheel of any such vehicle, trackless
trolley, object or structure operated or moved upon improved public highways,
streets, bridges or culverts shall not exceed 650 pounds per inch width of
pneumatic tire, measured as prescribed by R.C. § 5577.03.
   (B)   The weight of vehicle and load imposed upon the road surface by
vehicles with pneumatic tires shall not exceed the following weight
limitations:
      (1)   On any one axle, 20,000 pounds;
      (2)   On any tandem axle, 34,000 pounds;
      (3)   On any two or more consecutive axles, the maximum weight gross
weight on any two or more consecutive axles shall be determined by application
of the formula provided in division (C) below.
   (C)   For purposes of division (B)(3) of this section, the maximum gross
weight on any two or more consecutive axles shall be determined by application
of the following formula: W = 500((LN/N-l) + 12N + 36). In this formula, “W”
equals the overall gross weight on any group of two or more consecutive axles
to the nearest five hundred pounds, “L” equals the distance in rounded whole
feet between the extreme of any group of two or more consecutive axles, and “N”
equals the number of axles in the group under consideration. However, two
consecutive sets of tandem axles may carry a gross load of 34,000 pounds each;
provided the overall distance between the first and last axles of such
consecutive sets of tandem axles is 36 feet or more.
   (D)   Except as provided in division (I) of this section, the weight of
vehicle and load imposed upon a road surface that is not part of the interstate
system by vehicles with pneumatic tires shall not exceed any of the following
weight limitations:
      (1)   On any one axle, 20,000 pounds;
      (2)   On any two successive axles:
         (a)   Spaced four feet or less apart, and weighed simultaneously,
24,000 pounds; or
         (b)   Spaced more than four feet apart, and weighed simultaneously,
34,000 pounds, plus 1,000 pounds per foot or fraction thereof, over four feet,
not to exceed 40,000 pounds.
      (3)   On any three successive load-bearing axles designed to equalize the
load between such axles and spaced so that each such axle of the three-axle
group is more than four feet from the next axle in the three-axle group and so
that the spacing between the first axle and the third axle of the three-axle
group is no more than nine feet, and with such load-bearing three-axle group
weighed simultaneously as a unit:
         (a)   48,000 pounds, with the total weight of vehicle and load not
exceeding 38,000 pounds plus an additional 900 pounds for each foot of spacing
between the front axle and the rearmost axle of the vehicle; or
         (b)   As an alternative to division (D)(3)(a) above, 42,500 pounds, if
part of a six-axle vehicle combination with at least 20 feet of spacing between
the front axle and rearmost axle, with the total weight of vehicle and load not
exceeding 54,000 pounds plus an additional 600 pounds for each foot of spacing
between the front axle and the rearmost axle of the vehicle.
      (4)   The total weight of vehicle and load utilizing any combination of
axles, other than as provided for three-axle groups in this division (D), shall
not exceed 38,000 pounds plus an additional 900 pounds for each foot of spacing
between the front axle and rearmost axle of the vehicle.
   (E)   Notwithstanding divisions (B) and (D) above, the maximum overall gross
weight of vehicle and load imposed upon the road surface shall not exceed
80,000 pounds.
   (F)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, when a vehicle is towing
another vehicle, such drawbar or other connection shall be of a length such as
will limit the spacing between nearest axles of the respective vehicles to a
distance not in excess of 12 feet and six inches.
   (G)   As used in division (B) above, TANDEM AXLE means two or more
consecutive axles whose centers may be included between parallel transverse
vertical planes spaced more than 40 inches but not more than 96 inches apart,
extending across the full width of the vehicle.
   (H)   This section does not apply to passenger bus type vehicles operated by
a regional transit authority pursuant to R.C. §§ 306.30 through 306.54.
   (I)   Either division (B) or (D) above applies to the weight of a vehicle
and its load imposed upon any road surface that is not a part of the interstate
system by vehicles with pneumatic tires. As between divisions (B) and (D)
above, only the division that yields the highest total gross vehicle weight
limit shall be applied to any such vehicle. Once that division is determined,
only the limits contained in the subdivisions of that division shall apply to
that vehicle.
(R.C. §§ 5577.01 and 5577.04) (Prior Code, § 7.02.36)
§ 74.037 MAXIMUM WIDTH AND HEIGHT.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be operated upon the public highways, streets,
bridges and culverts within this municipality whose dimensions exceed those
specified in this section.
   (B)   No such vehicle shall have a width:
      (1)   In excess of 104 inches for passenger bus type vehicles operated
exclusively within the municipality;
      (2)   In excess of 102 inches, excluding such safety devices as are
required by law, for passenger bus type vehicles operated over freeways, and
such other state roads with minimum pavement widths of 22 feet, except those
roads or portions of roads over which operation of 102-inch buses is prohibited
by order of the Director of Transportation;
      (3)   In excess of 132 inches for traction engines;
      (4)   In excess of 102 inches for recreational vehicles, excluding safety
devices and retracted awnings and other appurtenances of six inches or less in
width and except that the Director may prohibit the operation of 102-inch
recreational vehicles on designated state highways or portions of highways; or
      (5)   In excess of 102 inches, including load, for all other vehicles,
except that the Director may prohibit the operation of 102-inch vehicles on
such state highways or portions of state highways as the Director designates.
   (C)   No such vehicle shall have a length:
      (1)   In excess of 66 feet for passenger bus type vehicles and
articulated passenger bus type vehicles operated by a regional transit
authority pursuant to R.C. §§ 306.30 through 306.54;
      (2)   In excess of 45 feet for all other passenger bus type vehicles;
      (3)   In excess of 53 feet for any semitrailer when operated in a
commercial tractor- semitrailer combination, with or without load, except that
the Director may prohibit the operation of any such commercial tractor-
semitrailer combination on such state highways or portions of state highways as
the Director designates;
      (4)   In excess of 28.5 feet for any semitrailer or trailer when operated
in a commercial tractor-semitrailer-trailer or commercial tractor-semitrailer-
semitrailer combination, except that the Director may prohibit the operation of
any such commercial tractor-semitrailer-trailer or commercial tractor-
semitrailer-semitrailer combination on such state highways or portions of state
highways as the Director designates;
      (5)   (a)   In excess of 97 feet for drive-away saddlemount vehicle
transporter combinations and drive-away saddlemount with fullmount vehicle
transporter combinations when operated on any interstate, United States route
or state route, including reasonable access travel on all other roadways for a
distance not to exceed one road mile from any interstate, United States route
or state route, not to exceed three saddlemounted vehicles, but which may
include one fullmount.
         (b)   In excess of 75 feet for drive-away saddlemount vehicle
transporter combinations and drive-away saddlemount with fullmount vehicle
transporter combinations when operated on any roadway not designated as an
interstate, United States route or state route, not to exceed three
saddlemounted vehicles, but which may include one fullmount.
      (6)   In excess of 65 feet for any other combination of vehicles coupled
together, with or without load, except as provided in division (C)(3) and (C)
(4) above, and in division (E) below;
      (7)   In excess of 45 feet for recreational vehicles; and
      (8)   In excess of 50 feet for all other vehicles, except trailers and
semitrailers, with or without load.
   (D)   No such vehicle shall have a height in excess of 13.5 feet, with or
without load.
   (E)   An automobile transporter or boat transporter shall be allowed a
length of 65 feet, and a stinger-steered automobile transporter or stinger-
steered boat transporter shall be allowed a length of 75 feet, except that the
load thereon may extend no more than four feet beyond the rear of such vehicles
and may extend no more than three feet beyond the front of such vehicles, and
except further that the Director may prohibit the operation of a stinger-
steered automobile transporter, stinger-steered boat transporter or a B-train
assembly on any state highway or portion of any state highway that the Director
designates.
   (F)   (1)   The widths prescribed in division (B) above shall not include
side mirrors, turn signal lamps, marker lamps, handholds for cab entry and
egress, flexible fender extensions, mud flaps, splash and spray suppressant
devices and load-induced tire bulge.
      (2)   The widths prescribed in division (B)(5) above shall not include
automatic covering devices, tarp and tarp hardware, and tiedown assemblies,
provided these safety devices do not extend more than three inches from either
side of the vehicle.
      (3)   The lengths prescribed in divisions (C)(2) through (C)(7) above
shall not include safety devices, bumpers attached to the front or rear of such
bus or combination, non-property carrying devices or components that do not
extend more than 24 inches beyond the rear of the vehicle and are needed for
loading or unloading, B-train assembly used between the first and second
semitrailer of a commercial tractor-semitrailer-semitrailer combination, energy
conservation devices as provided in any regulations adopted by the Secretary of
the United States Department of Transportation or any noncargo- carrying
refrigerator equipment attached to the front of trailers and semitrailers. In
special cases, vehicles that dimensions exceed those prescribed by this section
may operate in accordance with rules adopted by the Director.
   (G)   (1)   This section does not apply to fire engines, fire trucks or
other vehicles or apparatus belonging to the municipality or to the volunteer
fire department thereof or used by such department in the discharge of its
functions. This section does not apply to vehicles and pole trailers used in
the transportation of wooden and metal poles, nor to the transportation of
pipes or well-drilling equipment, nor to farm machinery and equipment.
      (2)   The owner or operator of any vehicle, machinery or equipment not
specifically enumerated in this section but the dimensions of which exceed the
dimensions provided by this section, when operating the same on the highways
and streets of the municipality, shall comply with the rules of the Director
governing such movement. Any person adversely affected shall have the same
right of appeal as provided in R.C. Chapter 119.
      (3)   This section does not require the municipality or any railroad or
other private corporation to provide sufficient vertical clearance to permit
the operation of such vehicle, or to make any changes in or about existing
structures now crossing streets, roads and other public thoroughfares.
   (H)   As used in this section, RECREATIONAL VEHICLE has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 4501.01.
(R.C. § 5577.05)
   (I)   No person shall violate any rule or regulation promulgated by the
Director of Transportation in accordance with R.C. § 5577.05.
(R.C. § 5577.06)
   (J)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second or subsequent offense, such person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 5577.99(C))
(Prior Code, § 7.02.37)
§ 74.038 CHILD RESTRAINT SYSTEM REQUIRED.
   (A)   When any child who is in either or both of the following categories is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4511.01, that is required by the United States
Department of Transportation to be equipped with seat belts at the time of
manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child
properly secured in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions in a child
restraint system that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards:
      (1)   A child who is less than four years of age; and
      (2)   A child who weighs less than 40 pounds.
   (B)   When any child who is in either or both of the following categories is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab, that is owned,
leased or otherwise under the control of a nursery school or day-care center,
the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child properly secured in
accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions in a child restraint system
that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards:
      (1)   A child who is less than four years of age; and
      (2)   A child who weighs less than 40 pounds.
   (C)   When any child who is less than eight years of age and less than four
feet nine inches in height, who is not required by division (A) or (B) above to
be secured in a child restraint system, is being transported in a motor
vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety vehicle as defined in R.C. §
4511.01 or a vehicle that is regulated under R.C. § 5104.015, that is required
by the United States Department of Transportation to be equipped with seat
belts at the time of manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor vehicle
shall have the child properly secured in accordance with the manufacturer’s
instructions on a booster seat that meets federal motor vehicle safety
standards.
   (D)   When any child who is at least eight years of age but not older than
15 years of age, and who is not otherwise required by division (A), (B) or (C)
above to be secured in a child restraint system or booster seat, is being
transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety vehicle
as defined in R.C. § 4511.01, that is required by the United States Department
of Transportation to be equipped with seat belts at the time of manufacture or
assembly, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child properly
restrained either in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions in a child
restraint system that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards or in an
occupant restraining device as defined in R.C. § 4513.263.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause an operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (C) or (D) above has been or is
being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation or
summons for a violation of division (C) or (D) above or causing the arrest of
or commencing a prosecution of a person for a violation of division (C) or (D)
above, and absent another violation of law, a law enforcement officer’s view of
the interior or visual inspection of a motor vehicle being operated on any
street or highway may not be used for the purpose of determining whether a
violation of division (C) or (D) above has been or is being committed.
   (F)   The Director of Public Safety shall adopt such rules as are necessary
to carry out this section.
   (G)   The failure of an operator of a motor vehicle to secure a child in a
child restraint system, a booster seat, or an occupant restraining device as
required in this section is not negligence imputable to the child, is not
admissible as evidence in any civil action involving the rights of the child
against any other person allegedly liable for injuries to the child, is not to
be used as a basis for a criminal prosecution of the operator of the motor
vehicle other than a prosecution for a violation of this section, and is not
admissible as evidence in any criminal action involving the operator of the
motor vehicle other than a prosecution for a violation of this section.
   (H)   This section does not apply when an emergency exists that threatens
the life of any person operating or occupying a motor vehicle that is being
used to transport a child who otherwise would be required to be restrained
under this section. This section does not apply to a person operating a motor
vehicle who has an affidavit signed by a physician licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4731 or a chiropractor licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4734 that states that the child who otherwise would be
required to be restrained under this section has a physical impairment that
makes use of a child restraint system, booster seat or an occupant restraining
device impossible or impractical, provided that the person operating the
vehicle has safely and appropriately restrained the child in accordance with
any recommendations of the physician or chiropractor as noted on the affidavit.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any person to
carry with the person the birth certificate of a child to prove the age of the
child, but the production of a valid birth certificate for a child showing that
the child was not of an age to which this section applies is a defense against
any ticket, citation or summons issued for violating this section.
   (J)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A), (B), (C) or (D) above shall be
punished as follows, provided that the failure of an operator of a motor
vehicle to secure more than one child in a child restraint system, booster seat
or occupant restraining device as required by this section that occurred at the
same time, on the same day, and at the same location is deemed to be a single
violation of this section:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (J)(1)(b) below, the
offender is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $25
nor more than $75.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (A), (B), (C) or (D) above or of a state law
or municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent any of those divisions,
the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   All fines imposed pursuant to division (J)(1) above shall be
forwarded to the State Treasurer for deposit in the Child Highway Safety Fund
created by R.C. § 4511.81(I).
(R.C. § 4511.81(A) - (H), (K), (L))
(Prior Code, § 7.02.42)
§ 74.039 EARPHONES OR EARPLUGS ON OPERATOR PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle while wearing earphones over,
or earplugs in, both ears. As used in this section, EARPHONES means any
headset, radio, tape player or other similar device that provides the listener
with radio programs, music or other recorded information through a device
attached to the head and that cover all or a portion of both ears. EARPHONES do
not include speaker or other listening devices that are built into protective
head gear.
   (B)   This section does not apply to:
      (1)   Any person wearing a hearing aid;
      (2)   Law enforcement personnel while on duty;
      (3)   Fire Department personnel and emergency medical service personnel
while on duty;
      (4)   Any person engaged in the operation of equipment for use in the
maintenance or repair of any highway; and
      (5)   Any person engaged in the operation of refuse collection equipment.
(Prior Code, § 7.02.43)
§ 74.040 EXCESSIVE MUSIC, NOISE OR ENTERTAINMENT PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person or organization shall engage in any performance or use any
electronic device in any manner so as to create a public disturbance or operate
or permit the operation of any sound amplification system from a vehicle so
that the sound is plainly audible at a distance of 50 or more feet from the
vehicle.
      (1)   PUBLIC DISTURBANCE means loud music revelry, or electronically
reproduced sound done or created at a time and a place or in a manner so as to
create a substantial likelihood of disturbing the public’s reasonable
expectation of peace of and quiet.
      (2)   SOUND AMPLIFICATION SYSTEM means any radio, tape player, compact
disk player, loud speaker or other electronic device used for amplification of
the human voice and/or musical instrument.
      (3)   PLAINLY AUDIBLE means any sound produced by a sound amplification
system from within the vehicle which clearly can be heard at a distance of 50
feet or more. Measurement standards shall be by the auditory senses based on
direct line of sight. Words or phrases need not be discernible and base
reverberations are included. The motor vehicle may be stopped, standing, parked
or moving on the street, highway, alley, parking lot or driveway.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that the
operator was not otherwise prohibited by law from operating the sound
amplification system, and that any of the following apply:
      (1)   A system was being operated to request medical or vehicular
assistance or to warn of a hazardous road condition;
      (2)   The vehicle was any emergency or public safety vehicle; and
      (3)   The vehicle was used in authorized public activities, such as
parades, fireworks, sports events, musical productions and other activities
which have the approval of the department of the city authorized to grant such
approval.
(Prior Code, § 7.02.44)
§ 74.041 RESTRICTION ON THE USE OF TINTED GLASS AND OTHER VISION OBSCURING
MATERIALS.
   (A)   The State Director of Public Safety, in accordance with R.C. Chapter
119, shall adopt rules governing the use of tinted glass, and the use of
transparent, nontransparent, translucent and reflectorized materials in or on
motor vehicle windshields, side windows, sidewings and rear windows that
prevent a person of normal vision looking into the motor vehicle from looking
into the motor vehicle from seeing or identifying persons or objects inside the
motor vehicle.
   (B)   The rules adopted under this section may provide for persons who meet
either of the following qualifications:
      (1)   On the effective date of this section or of any adopted under this
section, own a motor vehicle that does not conform to the requirements of this
section or of any rule adopted under this section; and
      (2)   Establish residency in this state and are required to register a
motor vehicle that does not conform to the requirements of this section or of
any rule adopted under this section.
   (C)   No person shall operate, on a highway or other public or private
property open to the public for vehicular travel or parking, lease or rent any
motor vehicle that is registered in this state unless the motor vehicle
conforms to the requirements of this section and of any applicable rule adopted
under this section.
(Prior Code, § 7.02.45)
§ 74.042 MOVING BUILDINGS.
   The City Manager may, upon application, issue a permit to move a building
over any street, highway or alley within the municipality. The permit shall be
in writing and the City Manager may grant the same, subject to such conditions
and restrictions, as in his or her judgment, are necessary for the preservation
and protection of public or private property. The City Manager may require the
applicant to provide a bond or cash deposit in such an amount, not to exceed
$5,000, as may be necessary to save the municipality harmless from any and all
liability or property damage as a result of the issuance of such a permit. Upon
completion of the movement and inspection of the route traversed, if no claims
are filed for recovery of damage to any person or property, the bond may be
canceled or the deposit refunded.
(Prior Code, § 7.02.47)
§ 74.043 SPECIAL ENGINE BRAKES.
   (A)   The usage of any and all special engine brake is prohibited within the
city except when used on public safety vehicles. For purposes of this section,
SPECIAL ENGINE BRAKES shall be defined to include, but are not limited to, C
brakes, Pac brakes, Tekbrakes or any other type of engine retarder commonly
utilized within the commercial trucking industry.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be subject to a fine of up to
$100.
(Prior Code, § 7.02.49)
§ 74.044 BUMPERS ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT RATING. The manufacturer’s gross vehicle weight
rating established for that vehicle.
      MANUFACTURER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      MULTIPURPOSE PASSENGER VEHICLE. A motor vehicle with motive power, except
a motorcycle, designed to carry ten persons or less, that is constructed either
on a truck chassis or with special features for occasional off-road operation.
      PASSENGER CAR. Any motor vehicle with motive power, designed for carrying
ten persons or less, except a multipurpose passenger vehicle or motorcycle.
      TRUCK. Every motor vehicle, except trailers and semitrailers, designed
and used to carry property and having a gross vehicle weight rating of 10,000
pounds or less.
   (B)   Rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety, in accordance with
R.C. Chapter 119, shall govern the maximum bumper height or, in the absence of
bumpers and in cases where bumper height have been lowered or modified, the
maximum height to the bottom of the frame rail of any passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck.
   (C)   No person shall operate upon a street or highway any passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck registered in this state that does not
conform to the requirements of this section or any applicable rule adopted
pursuant to R.C. § 4513.021.
   (D)   No person shall modify any motor vehicle registered in this state in
such a manner as to cause the vehicle body or chassis to come in contact with
the ground, expose the fuel tank to damage from collision or cause the wheels
to come in contact with the body under normal operation, and no person shall
disconnect any part of the original suspension system of the vehicle to defeat
the safe operation of that system.
   (E)   Nothing contained in this section or in the rules adopted pursuant to
R.C. § 4513.021 shall be construed to prohibit either of the following:
      (1)   The installation upon a passenger car, multipurpose passenger
vehicle or truck registered in this state of heavy duty equipment, including
shock absorbers and overload springs; or
      (2)   The operation on a street or highway of a passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck registered in this state with normal
wear to the suspension system if the normal wear does not adversely affect the
control of the vehicle.
   (F)   This section and the rules adopted pursuant to R.C. § 4513.021 do not
apply to any specially designed or modified passenger car, multipurpose
passenger vehicle or truck when operated off a street or highway in races and
similar events.
   (G)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.021)
Statutory reference:
   Maximum height on bumpers, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-43
§ 74.045 STOPLIGHT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer and pole trailer when
operated upon a highway shall be equipped with two or more stop lights, except
that passenger cars manufactured or assembled prior to January 1, 1967,
motorcycles, and motor-driven cycles shall be equipped with at least one stop
light. Stop lights shall be mounted on the rear of the vehicle, actuated upon
application of the service brake, and may be incorporated with other rear
lights. Such stop lights when actuated shall emit a red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear; provided that in the case of a train of
vehicles only the stop lights on the rearmost vehicle need be visible from the
distance specified.
      (2)   Such stop lights when actuated shall give a steady warning light to
the rear of a vehicle or train of vehicles to indicate the intention of the
operator to diminish the speed of or stop a vehicle or train of vehicles.
      (3)   When stop lights are used as required by this section, they shall
be constructed or installed so as to provide adequate and reliable illumination
and shall conform to the appropriate rules and regulations established under
R.C. § 4513.19.
      (4)   Historical motor vehicles as defined in R.C. § 4503.181, not
originally manufactured with stop lights, are not subject to this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.071)
§ 74.046 STANDARDS FOR LIGHTS ON SNOW REMOVAL EQUIPMENT AND OVERSIZE VEHICLES.
   (A)   It is unlawful to operate snow removal equipment on a highway unless
the lights thereon comply with and are lighted when and as required by the
standards and specifications adopted by the Director of Transportation pursuant
to R.C. § 4513.18.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.18)
§ 74.047 FLASHING LIGHTS PERMITTED FOR CERTAIN TYPES OF VEHICLES.
   Rural mail delivery vehicles, state highway survey vehicles and funeral
escort vehicles are permitted to use flashing lights.
(R.C. § 4513.181)
§ 74.048 LIGHTS AND SIGN ON TRANSPORTATION FOR PRESCHOOL CHILDREN.
   (A)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle owned, leased or hired by a
nursery school, kindergarten or day-care center, while transporting preschool
children to or from such an institution unless the motor vehicle is equipped
with and displaying two amber flashing lights mounted on a bar attached to the
top of the vehicle, and a sign bearing the designation “caution – children”,
which shall be attached to the bar carrying the amber flashing lights in such a
manner as to be legible to persons both in front of and behind the vehicle. The
lights and sign shall meet standards and specifications adopted by the Director
of Public Safety.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle displaying the lights and sign
required by this section for any purpose other than the transportation of
preschool children as provided in this section.
(R.C. § 4513.182)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.049 BRAKE FLUID.
   (A)   No hydraulic brake fluid for use in motor vehicles shall be sold in
this municipality if the brake fluid is below the minimum standard of
specifications for heavy duty type brake fluid established by the society of
automotive engineers and the standard of specifications established by 49
C.F.R. § 571.116, as amended.
   (B)   All manufacturers, packers or distributors of brake fluid selling such
fluid in this municipality shall state on the containers that the brake fluid
meets or exceeds the applicable minimum SAE standard of specifications, and the
standard of specifications established in 49 C.F.R. § 571.116, as amended.
(R.C. § 4513.201)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.050 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR BRAKES AND COMPONENTS.
   (A)   No brake lining, brake lining material or brake lining assemblies for
use as repair and replacement parts in motor vehicles shall be sold in this
municipality if these items do not meet or exceed the minimum standard of
specifications established by the Society of Automotive Engineers and the
standard of specifications established in 49 C.F.R. § 571.105, as amended, and
49 C.F.R. § 571.135, as amended.
   (B)   All manufacturers or distributors of brake lining, brake lining
material or brake lining assemblies selling these items for use as repair and
replacement parts in motor vehicles shall state that the items meet or exceed
the applicable minimum standard of specifications.
   (C)   As used in this section, MINIMUM STANDARD OF SPECIFICATIONS means a
minimum standard for brake system or brake component performance that meets the
need for motor vehicle safety and complies with the applicable SAE standards
and recommended practices, and the federal motor vehicle safety standards that
cover the same aspect of performance for any brake lining, brake lining
material or brake lining assemblies.
(R.C. § 4513.202)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.051 DIRECTIONAL SIGNALS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle manufactured or
assembled on or after January 1, 1954, unless the vehicle is equipped with
electrical or mechanical directional signals.
      (2)   No person shall operate any motorcycle or motor-driven cycle
manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1968, unless the vehicle is
equipped with electrical or mechanical directional signals.
   (B)   As used in this section, DIRECTIONAL SIGNALS means an electrical or
mechanical signal device capable of clearly indicating an intention to turn
either to the right or to the left and which shall be visible from both the
front and rear.
   (C)   All mechanical signal devices shall be self-illuminating devices when
in use at the times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.261)
§ 74.052 REQUIREMENTS FOR EXTRA SIGNAL EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No person shall operate any motor truck, bus or commercial tractor
upon any highway at any time from sunset to sunrise unless there is carried in
such vehicle, except as provided in division (B) below, the following equipment
which shall be of the types approved by the Director of Transportation:
      (1)   At least three flares or three red reflectors or three red electric
lanterns, each of which is capable of being seen and distinguished at a
distance of 500 feet under normal atmospheric conditions at nighttime;
      (2)   At least three red-burning fusees, unless red reflectors or red
electric lanterns are carried;
      (3)   At least two red cloth flags, not less than two inches square, with
standards to support them; and
      (4)   The type of red reflectors shall comply with such standards and
specifications in effect on September 16, 1963, or later established by the
Interstate Commerce Commission and must be certified as meeting such standards
by Underwriters Laboratories.
   (B)   No person shall operate at the time and under the conditions stated in
this section any motor vehicle used in transporting flammable liquids in bulk,
or in transporting compressed flammable gases, unless there is carried in such
vehicle three red electric lanterns or three red reflectors meeting the
requirements stated in division (A) above. There shall not be carried in any
such vehicle any flare, fusee or signal produced by a flame.
   (C)   This section does not apply to any person who operates any motor
vehicle in a work area designated by protection equipment devices that are
displayed and used in accordance with the manual adopted by the Department of
Transportation under R.C. § 4511.09.
(R.C. § 4513.27)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.053 REQUIREMENTS FOR VEHICLES TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   Any person operating any vehicle transporting explosives upon a
highway shall at all times comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   The vehicle shall be marked or placarded on each side and on the
rear with the word “EXPLOSIVES” in letters not less than eight inches high, or
there shall be displayed on the rear of such vehicle a red flag not less than
24 inches square marked with the word “DANGER” in white letters six inches
high, or shall be marked or placarded in accordance with § 177.823 of the
United States Department of Transportation regulations.
      (2)   The vehicle shall be equipped with not less than two fire
extinguishers, filled and ready for immediate use, and placed at convenient
points on such vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.29)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.054 SAFETY INSPECTION DECALS FOR BUSES.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      BUS.
         (a)   Means any vehicle used for the transportation of passengers that
meets at least one of the following:
            1.   Was originally designed by the manufacturer to transport more
than 15 passengers, including the driver; and/or
            2.   Either the gross vehicle weight rating or the gross vehicle
weight exceeds 10,000 pounds.
         (b)   The term does not include a church bus as defined in R.C. §
4503.07 or a school bus unless the church bus or school bus is used in the
transportation of passengers by a motor carrier.
         (c)   The term also does not include any of the following:
            1.   Any vehicle operated exclusively on a rail or rails;
            2.   A trolley bus operated by electric power derived from a fixed
overhead wire furnishing local passenger transportation similar to street-
railway service; or
            3.   Vehicles owned or leased by government agencies or political
subdivisions.
      MOTOR CARRIER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4923.01.
(R.C. § 4513.50)
   (B)   Safety inspection decals. Except as provided in division (B)(2) below,
on and after July 1, 2001, no person shall operate a bus, nor shall any person
being the owner of a bus or having supervisory responsibility for a bus, permit
the operation of any bus unless the bus displays a valid, current safety
inspection decal issued by the State Highway Patrol under R.C. § 4513.52. For
the purpose of complying with the requirements of this section and R.C. §
4513.52, the owner or other operator of a bus may drive the bus directly to an
inspection site conducted by the State Highway Patrol and directly back to the
person’s place of business without a valid registration and without displaying
a safety inspection decal, provided that no passengers may occupy the bus
during such operation.
(R.C. § 4513.51(A), (B))
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) above is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
(R.C. § 4513.51(D))
§ 74.055 AIR BAGS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      AIR BAG. Has the same meaning as in 49 C.F.R. § 579.4, as amended.
      COUNTERFEIT AIR BAG. An air bag displaying a mark identical or similar to
the genuine mark of a motor vehicle manufacturer, without the authorization of
the motor vehicle manufacturer.
      NONFUNCTIONAL AIR BAG. Any of the following:
         (a)   A replacement air bag that has been previously deployed or
damaged;
         (b)   A replacement air bag that has an electrical fault that is
detected by the air bag diagnostic system of a vehicle after the air bag is
installed; and
         (c)   A counterfeit air bag, air bag cover or some other object that
is installed in a vehicle to deceive an owner or operator of the vehicle into
believing that a functional air bag has been installed.
   (B)   No person shall install or reinstall in any motor vehicle a
counterfeit or nonfunctional air bag or any object intended to fulfill the
function of an air bag other than an air bag that was designed in conformance
with or that is regulated by Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 208
for the make, model and model year of the vehicle, knowing that the object is
not in accordance with that standard.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly manufacture, import, sell or offer for sale
any of the following:
      (1)   A counterfeit air bag;
      (2)   A nonfunctional air bag; and
      (3)   Any other object that is intended to be installed in a motor
vehicle to fulfill the function of an air bag and that is not in conformance
with Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 208 for the make, model and
model year of the vehicle in which the object is intended to be installed.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly sell, install or reinstall a device in a
motor vehicle that causes the diagnostic system of a vehicle to inaccurately
indicate that the vehicle is equipped with a functional air bag.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (B) or (D) above is guilty of improper
replacement of a motor vehicle air bag, a misdemeanor of the first degree on a
first offense. On each subsequent offense, or if the violation results in
serious physical harm to an individual, the person is guilty of a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of division (C) above is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. Each manufacture,
importation, installation, reinstallation, sale or offer for sale in violation
of this section shall constitute a separate and distinct violation.
(R.C. § 4549.20)
LOADS
§ 74.070 SPECIAL PERMITS FOR OPERATION OF VEHICLES EXCEEDING SIZE OR WEIGHT
LIMITS.
   (A)   (1)   The municipality, with respect to highways under their
jurisdiction, upon application in writing, shall issue a special regional heavy
hauling permit authorizing the applicant to operate or move a vehicle or
combination of vehicles as follows:
         (a)   At a size or weight of vehicle or load exceeding the maximum
specified in R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or otherwise not in conformity with
R.C. §§ 4513.01 to 4513.37;
         (b)   Upon any highway under the jurisdiction of municipality except
those highways with a condition insufficient to bear the weight of the vehicle
or combination of vehicles as stated in the application; and
         (c)   Issuance of a special regional heavy hauling permit is subject
to the payment of a fee established by the municipality in accordance with this
section.
      (2)   In circumstances where a person is not eligible to receive a permit
under division (A)(1) above, the municipality, with respect to highways under
its jurisdiction, upon application in writing and for good cause shown, may
issue a special permit in writing authorizing the applicant to operate or move
a vehicle or combination of vehicles of a size or weight of vehicle or load
exceeding the maximum specified in R.C. §§ 5577.01 through 5577.09, or
otherwise not in conformity with R.C. §§ 4513.01 through 4513.37, upon any
highway under its jurisdiction.
   (B)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 715.22 and 723.01, the holder of a permit
issued by the Director of Transportation under R.C. § 4513.34 may move the
vehicle or combination of vehicles described in the permit on any highway that
is a part of the state highway system when the movement is partly within and
partly without the corporate limits of the municipality. No local authority
shall require any other permit or license or charge any license fee or other
charge against the holder of a permit for the movement of a vehicle or
combination of vehicles on any highway which is a part of the state highway
system. The State Director of Transportation shall not require the holder of a
permit issued by the municipality to obtain a special permit for the movement
of vehicles or combination of vehicles on highways within the jurisdiction of
the municipality. Permits may be issued for any period of time not to exceed
one year, as the local authority in its discretion determines advisable or for
the duration of any public construction project.
   (C)   (1)   The application for a permit issued under this section shall be
in the form that the municipality prescribes. The municipality may prescribe a
permit fee to be imposed and collected when any permit described in this
section is issued. The permit fee may be in an amount sufficient to reimburse
the municipality for the administrative costs incurred in issuing the permit,
and also to cover the cost of normal and expected damage caused to the roadway
or a street or highway structure as the result of the operation of the
nonconforming vehicle or combination of vehicles.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section and of rules adopted by the
Director under R.C. § 4513.34, milk transported in bulk by vehicle is deemed a
nondivisible load.
      (3)   For purposes of this section and of rules adopted by the Director
under R.C. § 4513.34, three or fewer aluminum coils, transported by a vehicle,
are deemed a nondivisible load. The Director shall adopt rules establishing
requirements for an aluminum coil permit that are substantially similar to the
requirements for a steel coil permit under O.A.C. Chapter 5501:2-1.
   (D)   The municipality shall issue a special regional heavy hauling permit
under division (A)(1) above upon application and payment of the applicable fee.
However, the municipality may issue or withhold a special permit specified in
division (A)(2) above. If a permit is to be issued, the municipality may limit
or prescribe conditions of operation for the vehicle and may require the
posting of a bond or other security conditioned upon the sufficiency of the
permit fee to compensate for damage caused to the roadway or a street or
highway structure. In addition, the municipality, as a condition of issuance of
an overweight permit, may require the applicant to develop and enter into a
mutual agreement with the municipality to compensate for or to repair excess
damage caused to the roadway by travel under the permit.
   (E)   Every permit issued under this section shall be carried in the vehicle
or combination of vehicles to which it refers and shall be open to inspection
by any police officer or authorized agent of any authority granting the permit.
No person shall violate any of the terms of a permit.
   (F)   The Director of Transportation may debar an applicant from applying
for a special permit under this section upon a finding based on a reasonable
belief that the applicant has done any of the actions specified in R.C. §
4513.34(F).
   (G)   Notice and procedures for debarment shall be as provided in R.C. §
4513.34(G).
   (H)   (1)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to gross load limits.
      (2)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to axle load by more than 2,000 pounds per axle or group of
axles.
      (3)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to an approved route except upon order of a law enforcement
officer or authorized agent of the issuing authority.
   (I)   (1)   A permit issued by the municipality under this section for the
operation of a vehicle or combination of vehicles is valid for the purposes of
the vehicle operation in accordance with the conditions and limitations
specified on the permit.
      (2)   Such a permit is voidable by law enforcement only for operation of
a vehicle or combination of vehicles in violation of the weight, dimension or
route provisions of the permit. However, a permit is not voidable for operation
in violation of a route provision of a permit if the operation is upon the
order of a law enforcement officer.
(R.C. § 4513.34)
   (J)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
(Prior Code, § 7.02.38)
Statutory reference:
   Overweight or oversized vehicles, state permit regulations, see O.A.C.
Chapter 5501:2-1
§ 74.071 WEIGHING OF VEHICLE; REMOVAL OF EXCESS LOAD.
   (A)   Any police officer having reason to believe that the weight of a
vehicle and its load is unlawful may require the driver of the vehicle to stop
and submit to a weighing of it by means of a compact, self-contained, portable,
sealed scale specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of vehicles on
highways; a sealed scale permanently installed in a fixed location, having a
load-receiving element specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of
highway vehicles; a sealed scale, permanently installed in a fixed location,
having a load-receiving element specially adapted to determining the combined
load of all wheels on a single axle or on successive axles of a highway
vehicle; or a sealed scale adapted to weighing highway vehicles, loaded or
unloaded.
   (B)   The driver of the vehicle shall, if necessary, be directed to proceed
to the nearest available sealed scales to accomplish the weighing, provided the
scales are within three miles of the point where the vehicle is stopped.
   (C)   Any vehicle stopped in accordance with this section may be held by the
police officer for a reasonable time only to accomplish the weighing as
prescribed by this section.
   (D)   All scales used in determining the lawful weight of a vehicle and its
load shall be annually compared by a municipal, county or state sealer with the
state standards or standards approved by the state, and the scales shall not be
sealed if they do not conform to the state standards or standards approved by
the state.
   (E)   At each end of a permanently installed scale, there shall be a
straight approach in the same plane as the platform, of sufficient length and
width to insure the level positioning of vehicles during weight determinations.
During determination of weight by compact, self-contained, portable, sealed
scales, specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of vehicles on
highways, they shall always be used on a level terrain of sufficient length and
width to accommodate the entire vehicle being weighed. Such terrain shall be
level, or if not level, it shall be of such elevation that the difference in
elevation between the wheels on any one axle does not exceed two inches and the
difference in elevation between axles being weighed does not exceed one-quarter
inch per foot of the distance between such axles.
   (F)   In all determinations of all weights, except gross weight, by compact,
self-contained, portable, sealed scales, specially adapted to determining the
wheel loads of vehicles on highways, all successive axles, 12 feet or less
apart, shall be weighed simultaneously by placing one such scale under the
outside wheel of each such axle. In determinations of gross weight by the use
of compact, self-contained, portable, sealed scales, specially adapted to
determining the wheel loads of vehicles on highways, all axles shall be weighed
simultaneously by placing one such scale under the outside wheel of each axle.
   (G)   Whenever an officer, upon weighing a vehicle and load, determines that
the weight is unlawful, he or she may require the driver to stop the vehicle in
a suitable place and remain standing until such portion of the load is removed
as is necessary to reduce the weight of the vehicle to the limit permitted
under R.C. §§ 5577.01 through 5577.14 and this chapter.
(R.C. § 4513.33) (Prior Code, § 7.02.39)
Statutory reference:
   Alteration of weight limits, approval of Director required, see R.C. §
4513.33
§ 74.072 OPERATING TRACTION ENGINE UPON IMPROVED HIGHWAY.
   (A)   No person shall drive over the improved highways of this municipality
a traction engine or tractor with tires or wheels equipped with ice picks,
spuds, spikes, chains or other projections of any kind extending beyond the
cleats, and no person shall tow or in any way pull another vehicle over the
improved highways of this municipality which towed or pulled vehicle has tires
or wheels equipped with ice picks, spuds, spikes, chains or other projections
of any kind. As used in this section, “traction engine” or “tractor” applies to
all self-propelling engines equipped with metal-tired wheels operated or
propelled by any form of engine, motor or mechanical power.
   (B)   This municipality shall not adopt, enforce or maintain any ordinance,
rule or regulation contrary to or inconsistent with division (A) above, nor
shall this municipality require any license tax upon or registration fee for
any traction engine, tractor or trailer, or any permit or license to operate.
Operators of traction engines or tractors shall have the same rights upon the
public streets and highways as the drivers of any other vehicles, unless some
other safe and convenient way is provided, and no public road open to traffic
shall be closed to traction engines or tractors.
(R.C. § 5589.08)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 5589.99(B))
(Prior Code, § 7.02.40)
§ 74.073 LOAD LIMITS.
   (A)   From the and after the effective date of this section, the City
Manager shall determine which streets in the city are being unduly damaged by
commercial traffic of excessive weight and shall maintain a list thereof in the
office of the City Manager, a copy thereof to be furnished to the Police
Department which said list shall include the several streets and upon
designation by the City Manager shall become limited weight streets.
   (B)   Twenty-four hours following the publication of said list such streets
shall become limited weight streets and it shall be illegal to operate any
commercial motor vehicle over and across said streets having a gross weight in
excess of 12 tons.
   (C)   In the event any person desires to operate a vehicle in excess of 12
tons upon such limited street, he or she shall first procure a license from the
Chief of Police or the City Manager which said license shall be obtainable upon
the payment of the sum of $0.50 per ton and signed by the Chief of Police or
the City Manager and shall designate the date and destination of the truck.
   (D)   The sums so collected shall be deposited with the City Auditor to the
credit of a special street account and such sums so collected shall be spent
only on the maintenance and repair of the streets giving rise to the license
charges.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate without a license as
hereinabove set forth over such streets and violation of this injunction shall
be a fine of not to exceed $100, each violation being a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 7.02.48)
§ 74.074 SEAT BELTS.
   (A)   As used in this section and in R.C. § 4513.263 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the component parts of a seat safety belt
include a belt, anchor attachment assembly and a buckle or closing device.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall sell, lease, rent or operate any passenger car,
as defined in R.C. § 4501.01(E), that is registered or to be registered in this
state and that is manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1962, unless
the passenger car is equipped with sufficient anchorage units at the attachment
points for attaching at least two sets of seat safety belts to its front seat.
      (2)   Such anchorage units at the attachment points shall be of such
construction, design and strength to support a loop load pull of not less than
4,000 pounds for each belt.
   (C)   No person shall sell, lease or rent any passenger car, as defined in
R.C. § 4501.01(E), that is registered or to be registered in this state and
that is manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1966, unless the
passenger car has installed in its front seat at least two seat safety belt
assemblies.
   (D)   After January 1, 1966, neither any seat safety belt for use in a motor
vehicle nor any component part of any such seat safety belt shall be sold in
this municipality unless the seat safety belt or the component part satisfies
the minimum standard of specifications established by the society of automotive
engineers for automotive seat belts and unless the seat safety belt or
component part is labeled so as to indicate that it meets those minimum
standard specifications.
   (E)   Each sale, lease or rental in violation of this section constitutes a
separate offense.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.262) (Prior Code, § 7.02.41)
§ 74.075 LIMITATION OF LOAD EXTENSION ON LEFT SIDE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   No passenger-type vehicle shall be operated on a highway with any load
carried on the vehicle which extends more than six inches beyond the line of
the fenders on the vehicle’s left side.
(R.C. § 4513.30)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.076 STATEMENT OF GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT.
   (A)   No person shall issue or aid in issuing any bill of lading or other
document of like nature in lieu thereof, which bill or document is to accompany
a shipment of goods or property by truck, trailer, semitrailer, commercial
tractor or any other commercial vehicle used for the transportation of
property, the gross weight of which, with load, exceeds three tons, with intent
to defraud by misrepresentation thereon the weight of such goods of property to
be so transported.
   (B)   Any driver or operator of a commercial car, trailer or semitrailer may
obtain from any person, firm, partnership, corporation or association,
including the owner, lessee or operator of such commercial car, trailer or
semitrailer, owning and operating sealed scales in this state, a written
“statement of gross vehicle weight” showing the gross weight of the vehicle
including the cargo on the vehicle, the name and address of the person issuing
the statement, and the date and place where the vehicle and its cargo were
weighed. The driver or operator of the commercial car, trailer or semitrailer
shall retain such statement of gross vehicle weight on his or her person, and
any law enforcement officer may request that such driver or operator exhibit it
to him or her. If, upon examining the statement of gross vehicle weight, the
law enforcement officer has reason to believe that the information contained
therein is correct in every respect, he or she shall indorse it with his or her
name and the date and place where it was exhibited to him or her. The law
enforcement officer may then permit such driver or operator to proceed without
weighing by a law enforcement officer. No person shall willfully issue a
written statement of gross vehicle weight and knowingly give any false
information in such statement.
(R.C. § 5577.10)
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) above shall be fined not more than
$5,000 or imprisoned for not less than 30 days nor more than six months, or
both.
(R.C. § 5577.99(D))
§ 74.077 LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES; PROSECUTION; APPLICATION OF MONIES.
   Any person violating any law relating to or regulating the use of the
improved public roads shall be liable for all damage resulting to any such
street, highway, bridge or culvert by reason of such violation. In case of any
injury to such street, highway, bridge or culvert, such damages shall be
collected by civil action for recovery of such damages brought by the proper
authorities of the municipality. All damages collected under this section shall
be paid into the treasury of the municipality and credited to any fund for the
repairs of streets, highways, roads, bridges or culverts.
(R.C. § 5577.12)
§ 74.078 WEIGHT EXCEPTIONS FOR CERTAIN VEHICLES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      COAL TRUCK. A truck transporting coal from the site where it is mined
when the truck is operated in accordance with this section.
      FARM COMMODITIES. Includes livestock, bulk milk, corn, soybeans, tobacco
and wheat.
      FARM MACHINERY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      FARM TRUCK. A truck used in the transportation from a farm of farm
commodities when the truck is operated in accordance with this section.
      LOG TRUCK. A truck used in the transportation of timber from the site of
its cutting when the truck is operated in accordance with this section.
      SOLID WASTE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3743.01.
      SOLID WASTE HAUL VEHICLE. A vehicle hauling solid waste for which a bill
of lading has not been issued.
   (B)   (1)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 5577.02 and 5577.04, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the following vehicles under the
described conditions may exceed by no more than 7.5% the weight provisions of
R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, and no penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be imposed:
         (a)   A coal truck transporting coal, from the place of production to
the first point of delivery where title to the coal is transferred;
         (b)   A farm truck or farm machinery transporting farm commodities,
from the place of production to the first point of delivery where the
commodities are weighed and title to the commodities is transferred;
         (c)   A log truck transporting timber, from the site of its cutting to
the first point of delivery where the timber is transferred; and
         (d)   A solid waste haul vehicle hauling solid waste, from the place
of production to the first point of delivery where the solid waste is disposed
of or title to the solid waste is transferred.
      (2)   In addition, if any of the vehicles listed in division (B)(1) above
and operated under the conditions described in that division does not exceed by
more than 7.5% the gross vehicle weight provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01 to
5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and does not
exceed the wheel or axle-load limits of those sections by more than 7.5%, no
penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, for a wheel or axle overload shall be imposed.
   (C)   If any of the vehicles listed in division (B)(1) above and operated
under the conditions described in that division exceeds the weight provisions
of R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, by more than the percentage allowance of either divisions (B)(1) or
(B)(2) above, both of the following apply without regard to the allowance
provided by this division (B) above:
      (1)   The applicable penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance; and
      (2)   The civil liability imposed by R.C. § 5577.12, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   (1)   Division (B) above does not apply to the operation of a farm
truck, log truck or farm machinery transporting farm commodities during the
months of February and March.
      (2)   Regardless of when the operation occurs, division (B) above does
not apply to the operation of a vehicle on either of the following:
         (a)   A highway that is part of the interstate system; and
         (b)   A highway, road or bridge that is subject to reduced maximum
weights under R.C. §§ 4513.33, 5577.07, 5577.071, 5577.08, 5577.09 or 5591.42,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 5577.042)
   (E)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 5577.02 and 5577.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the following vehicles under the described
conditions may exceed by no more than 7.5% the weight provisions of R.C. §§
5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and no
penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, shall be imposed:
      (1)   A surface mining truck transporting minerals from the place where
the minerals are loaded to any of the following:
         (a)   The construction site where the minerals are discharged;
         (b)   The place where title to the minerals is transferred; and
         (c)   The place of processing.
      (2)   A vehicle transporting hot mix asphalt material from the place
where the material is first mixed to the paving site where the material is
discharged;
      (3)   A vehicle transporting concrete from the place where the material
is first mixed to the site where the material is discharged;
      (4)   A vehicle transporting manure, turf, sod or silage from the site
where the material is first produced to the first place of delivery; and
      (5)   A vehicle transporting chips, sawdust, mulch, bark, pulpwood,
biomass or firewood from the site where the product is first produced or
harvested to first point where the product is transferred.
   (F)   In addition, if any of the vehicles listed in division (E) above and
operated under the conditions described in that division do not exceed by more
than 7.5% the gross vehicle weight provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or
any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and do not exceed the wheel
or axle-load limits of those sections by more than 7.5%, no penalty prescribed
in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, for a
wheel or axle overload shall be imposed.
   (G)   If any of the vehicles listed in division (E) above and operated under
the conditions described in that division exceed the weight provisions of R.C.
§§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, by
more than the percentage allowance of either divisions (E) or (F) above, both
of the following apply without regard to the allowance provided by division (E)
or (F) above:
      (1)   The applicable penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance; and
      (2)   The civil liability imposed by R.C. § 5577.12, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (H)   Divisions (E) and (F) above do not apply to the operation of a vehicle
listed in division (E) above on either of the following:
      (1)   A highway that is part of the interstate system; and
      (2)   A highway, road or bridge that is subject to reduced maximum
weights under R.C. § 4513.33, 5577.07, 5577.071, 5577.08, 5577.09 or 5591.42,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 5577.043)
   (I)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 5577.02 and 5577.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, a vehicle fueled solely by compressed natural
gas or liquid natural gas may exceed by not more than 2,000 pounds the gross
vehicle weight provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, or the axle load limits of those sections.
   (J)   If a vehicle described in division (I) above exceeds the weight
provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, by more than the allowance provided for in division (I)
above, both of the following apply:
      (1)   The applicable penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance; and
      (2)   The civil liability imposed by R.C. § 5577.12, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (K)   Division (I) above does not apply to the operation of a vehicle on a
highway, road or bridge that is subject to reduced maximum weights under R.C.
§§ 4513.33, 5577.07, 5577.071, 5577.08, 5577.09 or 5591.42, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 5577.044)
   (L)   Fire engine weight exemptions.
      (1)   As used in this division (L), FIRE ENGINE means a fire engine, fire
truck or other vehicle or apparatus belonging to or used by any municipal,
township or volunteer fire department, while in the discharge of its functions.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 5577.02 and 5577.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, a person may do both of the following without a
written permit issued under R.C. § 4513.34, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance:
         (a)   Operate a two-axle fire engine, with a front axle maximum weight
of 24,000 pounds and a rear axle maximum weight of 33,500 pounds and a minimum
wheelbase of 15 feet, on all roadways in the state; and
         (b)   Operate a fire engine with a maximum gross vehicle weight of
86,000 pounds on the interstate highway system and within one road mile of an
interstate highway system entrance or exit ramp.
      (3)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 4513.34, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, for any fire engine that requires a permit, the State
Director of Transportation or local authority shall do both of the following:
         (a)   Issue the permit at no cost to the municipal, township or
volunteer fire department; and
         (b)   Issue a permit that expires five years after the date of
issuance.
(R.C. § 5577.045)
CHAPTER 75: BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES AND OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
75.01   Bicycles; application of Title VII
   
75.02   Operation of motorized bicycle
   
75.03   Electric bicycles
Snowmobiles, Off-Highway Motorcycles and All-Purpose Vehicles
   
75.25   Definitions
   
75.26   Equipment
   
75.27   Code application; prohibited operation
   
75.28   Permitted operation
   
75.29   Licensing requirements of operator
   
75.30   Maintenance of vehicles for hire
   
75.31   Accident reports
   
75.32   Impounding of vehicles
   
75.33   Local control within police power
   
75.34   Registration of vehicles
   
75.35   Certificate of title; prohibitions
All-Terrain Vehicles
   
75.50   ATV regulations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 75.01 BICYCLES; APPLICATION OF TITLE VII.
   (A)   The provisions of this title that are applicable to bicycles and
electric bicycles apply whenever a bicycle or electric bicycle is operated upon
any highway or upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D) below, a bicycle operator or
electric bicycle operator who violates any provisions of this title described
in division (A) above that is applicable to bicycles or electric bicycles may
be issued a ticket, citation or summons by a law enforcement officer for the
violation in the same manner as the operator of a motor vehicle would be cited
for the same violation. A person who commits any such violation while operating
a bicycle or electric bicycle shall not have any points assessed against the
person’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit or probationary license under R.C. § 4510.036.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (D) below, in the case of a violation
of any provision of this title described in division (A) above by a bicycle
operator, electric bicycle operator or motor vehicle operator when the trier of
fact finds that the violation by the motor vehicle operator endangered the
lives of bicycle riders or electric bicycle riders at the time of the
violation, the court, notwithstanding any provision of the Ohio Revised Code to
the contrary, may require the bicycle operator, electric bicycle operator or
motor vehicle operator to take and successfully complete a bicycling skills
course approved by the court in addition to or in lieu of any penalty otherwise
prescribed by this traffic code or the Ohio Revised Code for that violation.
   (D)   Divisions (B) and (C) above do not apply to violations of R.C. §
4511.19, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 4511.52)
§ 75.02 OPERATION OF MOTORIZED BICYCLE.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motorized bicycle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking, unless all of the following conditions are met.
      (1)   The person is 14 or 15 years of age and holds a valid probationary
motorized bicycle license issued after the person has passed the test provided
for in this section, or the person is 16 years of age or older and holds either
a valid commercial driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4506 or a
driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid motorized bicycle
license issued after the person has passed the test provided for in this
section, except that if a person is 16 years of age, has a valid probationary
motorized bicycle license and desires a motorized bicycle license, the person
is not required to comply with the testing requirements provided for in this
section.
      (2)   The motorized bicycle is equipped in accordance with the rules
adopted under division (B) below and is in proper working order.
      (3)   The person, if under 18 years of age, is wearing a protective
helmet on the person’s head with the chin strap properly fastened and the
motorized bicycle is equipped with a rearview mirror.
      (4)   The person operates the motorized bicycle when practicable within
three feet of the right edge of the roadway obeying all traffic rules
applicable to vehicles.
   (B)   The Director of Public Safety, subject to R.C. Chapter 119, shall
adopt and promulgate rules concerning protective helmets, the equipment of
motorized bicycles and the testing and qualifications of persons who do not
hold a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license. The test shall be as near
as practicable to the examination required for a motorcycle operator’s
endorsement under R.C. § 4507.11. The test shall also require the operator to
give an actual demonstration of the operator’s ability to operate and control a
motorized bicycle by driving one under the supervision of an examining officer.
   (C)   Every motorized bicycle license expires on the birthday of the
applicant in the fourth or eighth year after the date it is issued, based on
the period of renewal requested by the applicant. No motorized bicycle license
shall be issued for a period longer than eight years. A person who is 65 years
of age or older may only apply for a motorized bicycle license that expires on
the birthday of the applicant in the fourth year after the date it is issued.
   (D)   No person operating a motorized bicycle shall carry another person
upon the motorized bicycle.
   (E)   The protective helmet and rearview mirror required by division (A)(3)
above shall, on and after January 1, 1985, conform with rules adopted by the
Director under division (B) above.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (A), (D) or (E) above is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.521)
Statutory reference:
   Suspension of probationary motorized bicycle license by the state, see R.C.
§ 4510.34
§ 75.03 ELECTRIC BICYCLES.
   (A)   (1)   On and after January 1, 2020, manufacturers and distributors of
electric bicycles shall permanently affix a label, in a prominent location, to
each electric bicycle. The label shall specify whether the electric bicycle is
a class 1, class 2 or class 3 electric bicycle, the top assisted speed that the
electric bicycle is capable of reaching, and the motor wattage of the electric
bicycle.
      (2)   No person shall modify an electric bicycle in a manner that changes
the top assisted speed that the electric bicycle is capable of reaching unless
the person also modifies the label required under division (A)(1) above to
reflect the modification.
   (B)   (1)   The manufacturer of an electric bicycle shall ensure that the
electric bicycle complies with the equipment and manufacturing requirements for
bicycles established by the consumer product safety commission under 16 C.F.R.
§§ 1512 et seq.
      (2)   The manufacturer shall manufacture all class 1 electric bicycles
and class 3 electric bicycles so that when the rider ceases pedaling the
electric motor ceases to provide assistance. The manufacturer shall manufacture
all class 2 electric bicycles so that when the rider applies the brakes or
releases or activates a switch or similar mechanism the electric motor ceases
to provide assistance.
      (3)   All class 3 electric bicycles shall be equipped with a speedometer
that displays the speed of the electric bicycle in miles per hour.
   (C)   (1)   The operation of a class 1 electric bicycle and a class 2
electric bicycle is permitted on a path set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles or on a shared-use path, unless the county, township, municipal
corporation, other local authority or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60
with control over the path by resolution, ordinance or rule prohibits the use
of a class 1 electric bicycle or class 2 electric bicycle on such a path.
      (2)   No person shall operate a class 3 electric bicycle on a path set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles or a shared-use path unless that path
is within or adjacent to a highway or the county, township, municipal
corporation or local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60 with
control over the path by resolution, ordinance or rule authorizes the use of a
class 3 electric bicycle on such a path.
      (3)   No person shall operate a class 1 electric bicycle, a class 2
electric bicycle or a class 3 electric bicycle on a path that is intended to be
used primarily for mountain biking, hiking, equestrian use or other similar
uses, or any other single track or natural surface trail that has historically
been reserved for non-motorized use, unless the county, township, municipal
corporation, other local authority or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60
with control over the path by resolution, ordinance or rule authorizes the use
of a class 1 electric bicycle, a class 2 electric bicycle or a class 3 electric
bicycle on such a path.
      (4)   Divisions (C)(2) and (C)(3) above do not apply to a law enforcement
officer, or other person sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the
state, using an electric bicycle while in the performance of the officer’s
duties.
   (D)   (1)   No person under 16 years of age shall operate a class 3 electric
bicycle; however, a person under 16 years of age may ride as a passenger on a
class 3 electric bicycle that is designed to accommodate passengers.
      (2)   No person shall operate or be a passenger on a class 3 electric
bicycle unless the person is wearing a protective helmet that meets the
standards established by the Consumer Product Safety Commission or the American
Society for Testing and Materials.
   (E)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever operates
an electric bicycle in a manner that is prohibited under division (C) above and
whoever violates division (D) above is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If,
within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of
or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If,
within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of
two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   The offenses established under division (E)(1) above are strict
liability offenses and strict liability is a culpable mental state for purposes
of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of these offenses as strict liability
offenses shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for which
there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. § 4511.522)
SNOWMOBILES, OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLES AND ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLES
§ 75.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle designed primarily for
cross-country travel on land and water, or on more than one type of terrain,
and steered by wheels or caterpillar treads, or any combination thereof,
including vehicles that operate on a cushion of air, vehicles commonly known as
all- terrain vehicles, all season vehicles, mini-bikes and trail bikes. The
term does not include a utility vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4501.01 or any
vehicle principally used in playing golf, any motor vehicle or aircraft
required to be registered under R.C. Chapter 4503 or R.C. Chapter 4561, and any
vehicle excepted from definition as a motor vehicle by R.C. § 4501.01(B).
   DEALER. Any person or firm engaged in the business of manufacturing or
selling snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles or all-purpose vehicles at
wholesale or retail, or who rents, leases or otherwise furnishes snowmobiles,
off-highway motorcycles or all-purpose vehicles for hire.
   ELECTRONIC. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   ELECTRONIC DEALER. A dealer whom the Registrar of Motor Vehicles designates
under R.C. § 4519.511.
   ELECTRONIC RECORD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   HIGHWAY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   INTERSTATE HIGHWAY. Any part of the interstate system of highways as defined
in subsection (e), 90 Stat. 431 (1976), 23 U.S.C. § 103, as amended.
   LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAY OR FREEWAY. Have the same meanings as in R.C. §
5511.02.
   MINI-TRUCK. A vehicle that has four wheels, is propelled by an electric
motor with a rated power of 7,500 watts or less or an internal combustion
engine with a piston displacement capacity of 660 cubic centimeters or less,
has a total dry weight of 900 to 2,200 pounds, contains an enclosed cabin and a
seat for the vehicle operator, resembles a pickup truck or van with a cargo
area or bed located at the rear of the vehicle and was not originally
manufactured to meet federal motor vehicle safety standards.
   OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE. Every motorcycle, as defined in R.C. § 4511.01, that
is designed to be operated primarily on lands other than a street or highway.
   OPERATOR. Any person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile, off- highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle.
   OWNER. Any person or firm, other than a lienholder or dealer, having title
to a snowmobile, off- highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle, or other right
to the possession thereof.
   PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
4509.01.
   SNOWMOBILE. Any self-propelled vehicle designed primarily for use on snow or
ice, and steered by skis, runners or caterpillar treads.
   STATE HIGHWAY and STATE ROUTE. Have the same meanings as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   STREET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 4519.01)
§ 75.26 EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   In addition to any rules or regulations promulgated by the State
Director of Public Safety pursuant to R.C. § 4519.20 and R.C. Chapter 119,
equipment of snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles and all-purpose vehicles
shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, requirements for the
following items of equipment:
      (1)   At least one headlight having a minimum candlepower of sufficient
intensity to reveal persons and objects at a distance of at least 100 feet
ahead under normal atmospheric conditions during hours of darkness;
      (2)   At least one red tail light having a minimum candlepower of
sufficient intensity to be plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to the
rear under normal atmospheric conditions during hours of darkness;
      (3)   Every snowmobile, while traveling on packed snow, shall be capable
of carrying a driver who weighs 175 pounds or more, and, while carrying such
driver, be capable of stopping in no more than 40 feet from an initial steady
speed of 20 mph, or locking its traction belt; and
      (4)   A muffler system capable of precluding the emission of excessive
smoke or exhaust fumes, and of limiting the engine noise of vehicles. On
snowmobiles manufactured after January 1, 1973, such requirement shall include
sound dampening equipment such that noise does not exceed 82 decibels on the
“A” scale at 50 feet as measured according to SAE J192 (September 1970).
   (B)   No person shall operate any snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle in violation of this section, except that equipment specified
in division (A)(1) and (A)(2) above shall not be required on snowmobiles, off-
highway motorcycles or all-purpose vehicles operated during the daylight hours.
(R.C. § 4519.20(A), (B))
   (C)   No person shall sell, offer for sale, lease, rent or otherwise furnish
for hire in this municipality any new snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or
all-purpose vehicle that fails to comply with any rule adopted by the State
Director of Public Safety under R.C. § 4519.20 after the effective date of the
rule.
(R.C. § 4519.22(A))
   (D)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (B) above shall be fined not more than $50. If the offender within the
preceding year previously has committed a violation of division (B) of this
section or of R.C. § 4519.20(B), whoever violates division (B) above shall be
fined not less than $15 nor more than $100, imprisoned not more than three
days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.20(C))
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (C) above shall be fined not more than $50. If the offender within the
preceding year previously has committed a violation of division (C) above or of
R.C. § 4519.22(A), whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than
$15 nor more than $100, imprisoned not more than three days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.22(B))
§ 75.27 CODE APPLICATION; PROHIBITED OPERATION.
   (A)   The applicable provisions of this traffic code apply to the operation
of snowmobiles, off- highway motorcycles and all-purpose vehicles, except that
no person shall operate a snowmobile, off- highway motorcycle, or all-purpose
vehicle as follows:
      (1)   On any state highway, including a limited access highway or freeway
or the right-of- way thereof, except for emergency travel during such time and
in such manner as the State Director of Public Safety designates or except as
authorized by R.C. § 4519.41(F);
      (2)   On any private property, or in any nursery or planting area,
without the permission of the owner or other person having the right to
possession of the property;
      (3)   On any land or waters controlled by the state, except at those
locations where a sign has been posted permitting such operation;
      (4)   On the tracks or right-of-way of any operating railroad;
      (5)   While transporting any firearm, bow or other implement for hunting
that is not unloaded and securely encased;
      (6)   For the purpose of chasing, pursuing, capturing or killing any
animal or wild fowl; or
      (7)   During the time from sunset to sunrise, unless displaying lighted
lights as required by R.C. § 4519.20 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $50 nor
more than $500, imprisoned not less than three nor more than 30 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.40)
Cross-reference:
   Operation restricted for mini-trucks and low-speed, under-speed or utility
vehicles, see §
73.11
§ 75.28 PERMITTED OPERATION.
   Snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles and all-purpose vehicles may be
operated as follows:
   (A)   To make a crossing of a highway, other than a highway as designated in
R.C. § 4519.40(A)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
whenever the crossing can be made in safety and will not interfere with the
movement of vehicular traffic approaching from any direction on the highway,
and provided that the operator yields the right-of-way to any approaching
traffic that presents an immediate hazard;
   (B)   On highways in the county or township road systems whenever the local
authority having jurisdiction over such highways so permits;
   (C)   Off and alongside street or highway for limited distances from the
point of unloading from a conveyance to the point at which the snowmobile, off-
highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle is intended and authorized to be
operated;
   (D)   On the berm or shoulder of a highway, other than a highway as
designated in R.C. § 4519.40(A)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, when the terrain permits such operation to be undertaken safely and
without the necessity of entering any traffic lane;
   (E)   On the berm or shoulder or a county or township road, while traveling
from one area of operation of the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle to another such area; and
   (F)   For snowmobiles without metal studded tracks and all-purpose vehicles,
on state highways located on an island in Lake Erie, including limited access
highways and freeways, between the first day of November and the thirtieth day
of April, provided that all of the following conditions apply.
      (1)   The operator has a valid driver’s license as required under R.C. §
4519.44.
      (2)   The snowmobile or all-purpose vehicle is in compliance with rules
governing safety equipment adopted under R.C. § 4519.20.
      (3)   The owner of the snowmobile or all-purpose vehicle maintains proof
of financial responsibility for both on-road and off-road use of the snowmobile
or all-purpose vehicle.
      (4)   The operator obeys all traffic rules and regulations.
(R.C. § 4519.41)
§ 75.29 LICENSING REQUIREMENTS OF OPERATOR.
   (A)   No person who does not hold a valid, current motor vehicle driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, motorcycle operator’s endorsement or probationary
license, issued under R.C. Chapter 4506 or R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid,
current driver’s license issued by another jurisdiction, shall operate a
snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle on any street or
highway in this municipality, on any portion of the right-of-way thereof, or on
any public land or waters.
   (B)   No person who is less than 16 years of age shall operate a snowmobile,
off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle on any land or waters other than
private property or waters owned by or leased to the person’s parent or
guardian, unless accompanied by another person who is 18 years of age or older,
and who holds a license as provided in division (A) above, except that the
State Department of Natural Resources may permit such operation on state
controlled land under its jurisdiction when such person is less than 16 years
of age and is accompanied by a parent or guardian who is a licensed driver 18
years of age or older.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $50 nor
more than $500, imprisoned not less than 3 nor more than 30 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.44)
§ 75.30 MAINTENANCE OF VEHICLES FOR HIRE.
   (A)   Any dealer who rents, leases or otherwise furnishes a snowmobile, off-
highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle for hire shall maintain the vehicle
in safe operating condition. No dealer, or agent or employee of a dealer, shall
rent, lease or otherwise furnish a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle for hire to any person who does not hold a license as required
by R.C. § 4519.44(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or to
any person whom the dealer or an agent or employee of the dealer has reasonable
cause to believe is incompetent to operate the vehicle in a safe and lawful
manner.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $100 nor
more than $500.
(R.C. § 4519.45)
§ 75.31 ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   (A)   The operator of a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle involved in any accident resulting in bodily injury to or death of any
person or damage to the property of any person in excess of $100 shall report
the accident within 48 hours to the Chief of Police, and within 30 days shall
forward a written report of the accident to the State Registrar of Motor
Vehicles on a form prescribed by the Registrar. If the operator is physically
incapable of making the reports and there is another participant in the
accident not so incapacitated, the participant shall make the reports. In the
event there is no other participant, and the operator is other than the owner,
the owner, within the prescribed periods of time, shall make the reports.
   (B)   Any law enforcement officer or other person authorized by R.C. §§
4519.42 and 4519.43 who investigates or receives information of an accident
involving a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle shall
forward to the Registrar a written report of the accident within 48 hours.
(R.C. § 4519.46)
§ 75.32 IMPOUNDING OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   Whenever a person is found guilty of operating a snowmobile, off-
highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle in violation of any rule authorized
to be adopted under R.C. § 4519.21 or 4519.42, the trial judge of any court of
record, in addition to or independent of any other penalties provided by law,
may impound for not less than 60 days the certificate of registration and
license plate, if applicable, of that snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or
all-purpose vehicle. The court shall send the impounded certificate of
registration and license plate, if applicable, to the Registrar of Motor
Vehicles, who shall retain the certificate of registration and license plate,
if applicable, until the expiration of the period of impoundment.
   (B)   If a court impounds the certificate of registration and license plate
of an all-purpose vehicle pursuant to R.C. § 2911.21, the court shall send the
impounded certificate of registration and license plate to the Registrar, who
shall retain them until the expiration of the period of impoundment.
(R.C. § 4519.47)
§ 75.33 LOCAL CONTROL WITHIN POLICE POWER.
   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall prevent the municipality from
regulating the operation of snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycle and all-purpose
vehicles on streets and highways and other public property under municipal
jurisdiction, and within the reasonable exercise of the police power, except
that no registration or licensing of any snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or
all-purpose vehicle required to be registered or titled under R.C. Chapter 4519
shall be required.
(R.C. § 4519.48)
§ 75.34 REGISTRATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B), (C) and (D) below, no person shall
operate any snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle within
this municipality unless the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle is registered and numbered in accordance with R.C. §§ 4519.03 and
4519.04. Except as provided in R.C. § 4511.215 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, no registration is required for a mini-truck that is
operated within this state. A mini- truck may be operated only in accordance
with R.C. § 4511.215 and R.C. § 4519.401, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (B)   (1)   No registration is required for a snowmobile or off-highway
motorcycle that is operated exclusively upon lands owned by the owner of the
snowmobile or off-highway motorcycle, or on lands to which the owner of the
snowmobile or off-highway motorcycle has a contractual right.
      (2)   No registration is required for an all-purpose vehicle that is used
primarily for agricultural purposes when the owner qualifies for the current
agricultural use valuation tax credit, unless it is to be used on any public
land, trail or right-of-way.
      (3)   Any all-purpose vehicle exempted from registration under division
(B)(2) above and operated for agricultural purposes may use public roads and
rights-of-way when traveling from one farm field to another, when such use does
not violate R.C. § 4519.41.
      (4)   No registration is required for a snowmobile or all-purpose vehicle
that is operated on a state highway as authorized by R.C. § 4519.41(F).
   (C)   No registration is required for a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle
or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this state by a resident of another
state whenever that state has in effect a registration law similar to R.C.
Chapter 4519 and the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle
is properly registered under that state’s law. Any snowmobile, off-highway
motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this state by a resident of
a state not having a registration law similar to R.C. Chapter 4519 shall comply
with R.C. § 4519.09.
   (D)   No registration is required for a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle
or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this municipality by the United
States, another state or a political subdivision thereof, but the snowmobile,
off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle shall display the name of the
owner thereon.
   (E)   The owner or operator of any all-purpose vehicle operated or used upon
the waters in this municipality shall comply with R.C. Chapter 1547 and R.C.
Chapter 1548 relative to the operation of watercraft.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (A) above shall be fined not less than $50
nor more than $100.
(R.C. § 4519.02)
Statutory reference:
   Destruction or disposal of vehicle; transfer of ownership; change of
address; loss of certificate, see R.C. § 4519.05
   Registration of emergency vehicles, see R.C. § 4519.08
   Registration procedure, see R.C. § 4519.03
   Temporary license placards and fees, see R.C. § 4519.10
   Temporary operating permit for certain nonresidents, see R.C. § 4519.09
§ 75.35 CERTIFICATE OF TITLE; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate in this state an off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle without having a certificate of title for the off-highway motorcycle or
all-purpose vehicle if such a certificate is required by R.C. Chapter 4519 to
be issued for the off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle, or, if a
physical certificate of title has not been issued for it, operate an off-
highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle knowing that the ownership
information related to the motorcycle or vehicle has not been entered into the
automated title processing system by a Clerk of a Court of Common Pleas;
      (2)   Operate in this municipality an off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle is a certificate of title to the off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle has been issued and then has been canceled;
      (3)   Fail to surrender any certificate of title upon cancellation of it
by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles and notice of the cancellation as prescribed
in R.C. Chapter 4519;
      (4)   Fail to surrender the certificate of title to a Clerk of a Court of
Common Pleas as provided in R.C. Chapter 4519, in case of the destruction or
dismantling of, or change in, the off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle
described in the certificate of title;
      (5)   Violate any provision of R.C. §§ 4519.51 through 4519.70 for which
no penalty is otherwise provided or any lawful rules adopted pursuant to those
sections; and
      (6)   Operate in this state an off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle knowing that the certificate of title to or ownership of the motorcycle
or vehicle as otherwise reflected in the automated title processing system has
been canceled.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $200,
imprisoned not more than 90 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.66)
Statutory reference:
   Certificate of title: rules and procedures, see R.C. §§ 4519.51 et seq.
   Stolen vehicles and restrictions on sale or transfer, felony provisions, see
R.C. § 4519.67
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
§ 75.50 ATV REGULATIONS.
   The City of Nelsonville authorizes the use of ATVs on city streets in
accordance with the following regulations. ATV's that meet all the following
requirements will be allowed to operate on all city streets.
   (A)   Non-licensed ATVs are permitted on all roadways from Sunrise - Sundown
seven days per week unless a special event is organized with City approval then
hours can be extended.
   (B)   All traffic laws apply, vehicles must be insured, ridden by licensed
drivers 18 and older.
   (C)   All other Ohio laws will apply.
   (D)   ATV's will be allowed to operate on city streets of Nelsonville
beginning April 15 each year. The last date ATV's will be allowed to operate on
city streets is December 15 each year.
   (E)   In addition to the below rules, ATVs must be equipped with one rear
view mirror.
   (F)   If a vehicle is not equipped with turn signals, ATV operators must use
hand signals per R.C. § 4511.40.
   (G)   Vehicles must be equipped with a working rear brake light.
   (H)   ATV exhaust noise must meet the decibel level set forth in R.C. §
4519.20.
   (I)   Vehicles must be equipped with a working horn.
   (J)   Vehicles must not create excessive mud/dirt on city streets.
   (K)   This section will be in effect until December 31, 2023.
   (L)   Per R.C. § 4519.20 equipment rules, these regulations will apply and
be enforced by the Nelsonville Police Department.
(Ord 28-22, passed 4-25-2022)
CHAPTER 76: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
76.01   Parking prohibited in certain place
   
76.02   Vehicles left unattended; brakes to be set, engine stopped, ignition
locked and keys removed
   
76.03   Continuous parking in same location
   
76.04   Parking on highways
   
76.05   Police or meter attendants may remove illegally parked vehicle
   
76.06   Parking near curb
   
76.07   Compliance with “no parking” or “limited parking” signs
   
76.08   Fire lane blocking prohibited
   
76.09   Unlawful display of vehicles
   
76.10   Repairing of vehicles on highway unlawful
   
76.11   Conducting business from parked vehicle unlawful
   
76.12   Special parking locations for the handicapped
   
76.13   Impounding of vehicles
   
76.14   Sale of impounded vehicle when unclaimed
   
76.15   Truck parking
   
76.16   Location of meters; failure to deposit coins
   
76.17   Construction of meters
   
76.18   Meter spaces
   
76.19   Exempted parking times
   
76.20   Overtime parking
   
76.21   Parking meter rates, regulations and penalties
   
76.22   Tokens or slugs
   
76.23   Tampering with meters
   
76.24   Holiday and evening parking
   
76.25   Designation of city motorcycle parking areas
   
76.26   Application of chapter
   
76.27   Towing from public and private property
   
76.28   Private tow-away zones
   
76.29   Private property; officer’s duties
   
76.30   Rules and regulations
   
76.31   Parking in downtown areas; loading and unloading
   
76.32   Parking garbage or rubbish collection vehicles
   
76.33   Purpose of charges
   
76.34   Disabled veterans park free
   
76.35   Reserved spaces for municipal use
   
76.36   Metered area regulations and violations
   
76.37   Snow streets
   
76.38    Unattended trailer on city street or highway
   
76.39   Condition when motor vehicle left unattended
   
76.40   Parking on private property in violation of posted prohibition
   
76.41   Selling, washing or repairing vehicle upon roadway
   
76.42   Truck loading zone
   
76.43   Bus stops and taxicab stands
   
76.44   Parking in alleys and narrow streets; exceptions
   
76.45   Registered owner prima facie liable for unlawful parking
   
76.46   Waiver
§ 76.01 PARKING PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN PLACE.
   (A)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or to comply with the provisions of this
title, or while obeying the directions of a police officer or a traffic-control
device, in any of the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk, except as provided in division (B) below;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within ten feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (7)   Within 30 feet of, and upon the approach to, any flashing beacon,
stop sign or traffic- control device;
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by a traffic-control device;
      (9)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (10)   Within 20 feet of a driveway entrance to any fire station and, on
the side of the street opposite the entrance to any fire station, within 75
feet of the entrance when it is properly posted with signs;
      (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
such standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (12)   Alongside any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street;
      (13)   Upon any bridge or elevated structure upon a highway, or within a
highway tunnel;
      (14)   At any place where signs prohibit stopping;
      (15)   Within one foot of another parked vehicle; and
      (16)   On the roadway portion of a freeway, expressway or thruway.
   (B)   A person is permitted, without charge or restriction, to stand or park
on a sidewalk a motor- driven cycle or motor scooter that has an engine not
larger than 150 cubic centimeters, a low-speed micromobility device, or a
bicycle or electric bicycle, provided that the motor-driven cycle, motor
scooter, low-speed micromobility device, bicycle or electric bicycle does not
impede the normal flow of pedestrian traffic. This division does not authorize
any person to operate a vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.711, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) above is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.68) (Prior Code, § 7.05.01)
§ 76.02 VEHICLES LEFT UNATTENDED; BRAKES TO BE SET, ENGINE STOPPED, IGNITION
LOCKED AND KEYS REMOVED.
   (A)   No person having control or charge of a motor vehicle shall allow such
vehicle to stand on any street unattended without first setting the brakes
thereon, stopping the motor of such vehicle, locking the ignition and, when
standing upon a perceptible grade, without turning the wheels of such vehicle
to the curb or the side of the street or highway.
   (B)   The requirements of this section relating to the stopping of the
engine, locking of the ignition and removing the key from the ignition of a
motor vehicle shall not apply to an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 7.05.02)
§ 76.03 CONTINUOUS PARKING IN SAME LOCATION.
   No person who is the owner, agent, operator or other person in charge of any
vehicle shall permit said vehicle to remain parked, standing or abandoned upon
any street for a continuous period longer than 24 hours. This section shall not
be construed as affecting any other parking regulation now in effect or that
hereafter may become effective but shall be construed as additional parking
limitation. The purpose of this section is to prohibit the continuous longtime
parking and the storage of vehicles on the streets of the city.
(Prior Code, § 7.05.03)
§ 76.04 PARKING ON HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon any highway, no person shall stop, park or leave standing
any vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon the paved or main traveled
part of the highway if it is practicable to stop, park or so leave such vehicle
off the paved or main traveled part of the highway. In every event a clear and
unobstructed portion of the highway opposite such standing vehicle shall be
left for the free passage of other vehicles, and a clear view of such stopped
vehicle shall be available from a distance of 200 feet in each direction upon
such highway.
      (2)   This section does not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is
disabled while on the paved or improved or main traveled portion of a highway
in such manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid stopping and
temporarily leaving the disabled vehicle in such position.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.66) (Prior Code, § 7.05.04)
§ 76.05 POLICE OR METER ATTENDANTS MAY REMOVE ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLE.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a highway in
violation of R.C. § 4511.66 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
such officer may move such vehicle, or require the driver or other person in
charge of the vehicle to move the same, to a position off the paved or improved
or main traveled part of such highway.
   (B)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any
highway, bridge or causeway, or in any tunnel, where such vehicles constitutes
an obstruction to traffic, such officer may provide for the removal of such
vehicle to the nearest garage or other place of safety.
(R.C. § 4511.67) (Prior Code, § 7.05.05)
§ 76.06 PARKING NEAR CURB.
   (A)   (1)   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway where there is an
adjacent curb shall be stopped or parked with the right-hand wheels of the
vehicle parallel with and not more than 12 inches from the right-hand curb,
unless it is impossible to approach so close to the curb; in such case the stop
shall be made as close to the curb as possible and only for the time necessary
to discharge and receive passengers or to load or unload merchandise.
      (2)   Local authorities by ordinance may permit angle parking on any
roadway under their jurisdiction, except that angle parking shall not be
permitted on a state route within the municipality unless an unoccupied roadway
width of not less than 25 feet is available for free-moving traffic.
   (B)   Local authorities by ordinance may permit parking of vehicles with the
left-hand wheels adjacent to and within 12 inches of the left-hand curb of a
one-way roadway.
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(1)(b) below, no vehicle
shall be stopped or parked on a road or highway with the vehicle facing in a
direction other than the direction of travel on that side of the road or
highway.
         (b)   The operator of a motorcycle may back the motorcycle into an
angled parking space so that when the motorcycle is parked it is facing in a
direction other than the direction of travel on the side of the road or
highway.
      (2)   The operator of a motorcycle may back the motorcycle into a parking
space that is located on the side of, and parallel to, a road or highway. The
motorcycle may face any direction when so parked. Not more than two motorcycles
at a time shall be parked in a parking space as described in this division (C)
(2) irrespective of whether or not the space is metered.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any statute or any rule, regulation, resolution or
ordinance, air compressors, tractors, trucks and other equipment, while being
used in the construction, reconstruction, installation, repair or removal of
facilities near, on, over or under a street or highway, may stop, stand or park
where necessary in order to perform such work, provided a flagperson is on duty
or warning signs or lights are displayed as may be prescribed by the Director
of Transportation.
   (E)   Special parking locations and privileges for persons with disabilities
that limit or impair the ability to walk, also known as handicapped parking
spaces or disability parking spaces, shall be provided and designated by all
political subdivisions and by the state and all agencies and instrumentalities
thereof at all offices and facilities where parking is provided, whether owned,
rented or leased, and at all publicly owned parking garages. The locations
shall be designated through the posting of an elevated sign, whether
permanently affixed or movable, imprinted with the international symbol of
access and shall be reasonably close to exits, entrances, elevators and ramps.
All elevated signs posted in accordance with this division and R.C. § 3781.111
(C) shall be mounted on a fixed or movable post, and the distance from the
ground to the bottom edge of the sign shall measure not less than five feet. If
a new sign or a replacement sign designating a special parking location is
posted on or after October 14, 1999, there also shall be affixed upon the
surface of that sign or affixed next to the designating sign a notice that
states the fine applicable for the offense of parking a motor vehicle in the
special designated parking location if the motor vehicle is not legally
entitled to be parked in that location.
   (F)   (1)   (a)   No person shall stop, stand or park any motor vehicle at
special parking locations provided under division (E) above, or at special
clearly marked parking locations provided in or on privately owned parking
lots, parking garages, or other parking areas and designated in accordance with
that division, unless one of the following applies:
            1.   The motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of
a person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk and is
displaying a valid removable windshield placard or special license plates; or
            2.   The motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of
a handicapped person and is displaying a parking card or special handicapped
license plates.
         (b)   Any motor vehicle that is parked in a special marked parking
location in violation of division (F)(1)(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. above may be towed
or otherwise removed from the parking location by the law enforcement agency of
the municipality. A motor vehicle that is so towed or removed shall not be
released to its owner until the owner presents proof of ownership of the motor
vehicle and pays all towing and storage fees normally imposed by the
municipality for towing and storing motor vehicles. If the motor vehicle is a
leased vehicle, it shall not be released to the lessee until the lessee
presents proof that that person is the lessee of the motor vehicle and pays all
towing and storage fees normally imposed by the municipality for towing and
storing motor vehicles.
         (c)   If a person is charged with a violation of division (F)(1)(a)1.
or (F)(1)(a)2. above, it is an affirmative defense to the charge that the
person suffered an injury not more than 72 hours prior to the time the person
was issued the ticket or citation and that, because of the injury, the person
meets at least one of the criteria contained in R.C. § 4503.44(A)(1).
      (2)    No person shall stop, stand or park any motor vehicle in an area
that is commonly known as an access aisle, which area is marked by diagonal
stripes and is located immediately adjacent to a special parking location
provided under division (E) above or at a special clearly marked parking
location provided in or on a privately owned parking lot, parking garage or
other parking area and designated in accordance with that division.
   (G)   When a motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of a
person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk and is
displaying a removable windshield placard or a temporary removable windshield
placard or special license plates, or when a motor vehicle is being operated by
or for the transport of a handicapped person, and is displaying a parking card
or special handicapped license plates, the motor vehicle is permitted to park
for a period of two hours in excess of the legal parking period permitted by
local authorities, except where local ordinances or police rules provide
otherwise or where the vehicle is parked in such a manner as to be clearly a
traffic hazard.
   (H)   No owner of an office, facility or parking garage where special
parking locations are required to be designated in accordance with division (E)
above shall fail to properly mark the special parking locations in accordance
with that division or fail to maintain the markings of the special locations,
including the erection and maintenance of the fixed or movable signs.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require a person or
organization to apply for a removable windshield placard or special license
plates if the parking card or special license plates issued to the person or
organization under prior law have not expired or been surrendered or revoked.
   (J)   As used in this section:
      HANDICAPPED PERSON. Any person who has lost the use of one or both legs
or one or both arms, who is blind, deaf or so severely handicapped as to be
unable to move without the aid of crutches or a wheelchair, or whose mobility
is restricted by a permanent cardiovascular, pulmonary or other handicapping
condition.
      PERSON WITH A DISABILITY THAT LIMITS OR IMPAIRS THE ABILITY TO WALK. Has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 4503.44.
      SPECIAL LICENSE PLATES and REMOVABLE WINDSHIELD PLACARD. Any license
plates or removable windshield placard or temporary removable windshield
placard issued under R.C. § 4503.41 or 4503.44, and also mean any substantially
equivalent license plates or removable windshield placard or temporary
removable windshield placard issued by a state, district, country or
sovereignty.
   (K)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (A) or (C) above is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (F)(1)(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. above is
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in this division (K)
(2)(a) and division (K)(2)(b) below. Except as otherwise provided in this
division (K)(2)(a), an offender who violates division (F)(1)(a)1. or (F)(1)
(a)2. above shall be fined not less than $250 nor more than $500. An offender
who violates division (F)(1)(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. above shall be fined not more
than $100 if the offender, prior to sentencing, proves either of the following
to the satisfaction of the court.
            1.   At the time of the violation of division (F)(1)(a)1. above,
the offender or the person for whose transport the motor vehicle was being
operated had been issued a removable windshield placard that then was valid or
special license plates that then were valid but the offender or the person
neglected to display the placard or license plates as described in division (F)
(1)(a)1. above.
            2.   At the time of the violation of division (F)(1)(a)2. above,
the offender or the person for whose transport the motor vehicle was being
operated had been issued a parking card that then was valid or special
handicapped license plates that then were valid but the offender or the person
neglected to display the card or license plates as described in division (F)(1)
(a)2. above.
         (b)   In no case shall an offender who violates divisions (F)(1)(a)1.
or (F)(1)(a)2. above be sentenced to any term of imprisonment.
         (c)   An arrest or conviction for a violation of divisions (F)(1)(a)1.
or (F)(1)(a)2. above does not constitute a criminal record and need not be
reported by the person so arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries
contained in any application for employment, license or other right or
privilege, or made in connection with the person’s appearance as a witness.
         (d)   The clerk of the court shall pay every fine collected under this
division (K)(2) and division (K)(3) below to the municipality. Except as
provided in this division (K)(2), the municipality shall use the fine monies it
receives under divisions (K)(2) above and division (K)(3) below to pay the
expenses it incurs in complying with the signage and notice requirements
contained in division (E) above.
         (e)   The municipality may use up to 50% of each fine it receives
under this division (K)(2) and division (K)(3) below to pay the costs of
educational, advocacy, support and assistive technology programs for persons
with disabilities, and for public improvements within the municipality that
benefit or assist persons with disabilities, if governmental agencies or
nonprofit organizations offer the programs.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (F)(2) above shall be fined not less than
$250 nor more than $500. In no case shall an offender who violates division (F)
(2) above be sentenced to any term of imprisonment. An arrest or conviction for
a violation of division (F)(2) above does not constitute a criminal record and
need not be reported by the person so arrested or convicted in response to any
inquiries contained in any application for employment, license or other right
or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s appearance as a witness.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (H) above shall be punished as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (K)(4), the
offender shall be issued a warning.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (H) above or of a municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to that division, the offender shall not be issued a
warning but shall be fined not more than $25 for each parking location that is
not properly marked or whose markings are not properly maintained.
(R.C. § 4511.69) (Prior Code, § 7.05.06)
Cross-reference:
   Unlawful furnishing of prescription to enable persons to be issued
handicapped parking placards or license plates, see §
138.18
Statutory reference:
   Buildings, access for disabled persons, see R.C. § 3781.111
§ 76.07 COMPLIANCE WITH “NO PARKING” OR “LIMITED PARKING” SIGNS.
   When signs are placed, pursuant to §
70.35(K), marking “no parking zones”, no person shall park any vehicle in any
such designated place or they are in violation of the instructions contained on
such signs.
(Prior Code, § 7.05.07)
§ 76.08 FIRE LANE BLOCKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   A FIRE LANE shall mean any street, alley, thoroughfare or other means
of ingress or egress which shall be kept free from any blocking or obstruction
in order to permit the ingress or egress of fire and/or emergency vehicles.
   (B)   The Chief of the Fire Department shall cause to be erected in and
about said fire lanes signs designating such places as fire lanes and said
signs shall contain at least the following language: “Fire Lane No Blocking”.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, except as provided in this
section, to block or obstruct a fire lane or permit any vehicle, structure,
merchandise, garbage or any other substance to obstruct or block a fire lane.
Vehicles used for loading or unloading purposes serving adjoining property of
the designated fire lanes only may park during such times as loading or
unloading is in progress in designated loading or unloading areas in the fire
lanes; however, any unattended vehicle must have on the windshield of the
vehicle the location of the driver who is then in the process of delivering or
taking merchandise from or to the adjoining property.
   (D)   The city’s Chief of Police or the Fire Chief, or an authorized
representative, is hereby empowered to remove or cause to be removed any
vehicle or other thing obstructing or blocking a fire lane.
(Prior Code, § 7.05.08)
§ 76.09 UNLAWFUL DISPLAY OF VEHICLES.
   No person shall park upon a highway any vehicle displayed for sale, or
operate or park on any highway any vehicle for the primary purpose of display
advertising.
(Prior Code, § 7.05.09)
§ 76.10 REPAIRING OF VEHICLES ON HIGHWAY UNLAWFUL.
   No person shall, upon any highway, repair, wash and polish or clean any
vehicle for commercial purposes, or park any vehicle for the purpose of so
doing. This section shall not be construed to prohibit the making of such
necessary emergency repairs as will permit a vehicle to proceed.
(Prior Code, § 7.05.10)
§ 76.11 CONDUCTING BUSINESS FROM PARKED VEHICLE UNLAWFUL.
   The owner or operator of any vehicle shall not use such vehicle or permit
the same to be used on the streets and public places of the city for the
manufacture or repair of shoes, clothing, furniture, metal ware, tools or other
articles of personal or household use.
(Prior Code, § 7.05.11)
§ 76.12 SPECIAL PARKING LOCATIONS FOR THE HANDICAPPED.
   (A)   The Mayor or City Manager shall designate, by the use of a sign
bearing the international wheelchair symbol, special parking locations for
handicapped persons in accordance with R.C. § 4511.69. The City Manager shall
place on new or replacement signs a notice that states the applicable fine for
the offense. The locations shall be designated through the posting of an
elevated sign, whether permanently affixed or movable imprinted with the
international symbol of access and shall be reasonably close to exits,
entrances, elevators and ramps. All elevated signs posted in accordance with
this division and R.C. § 3881.11(C) shall be mounted on a fixed or movable post
and the distance from the ground to the top edge of the sign shall measure five
feet.
   (B)   No person who is not handicapped or not operating a motor vehicle to
transport a handicapped person shall stop, stand or park any motor vehicle at
special parking locations provided for under division (A) above, or at a
clearly marked parking locations provided in or on privately owned parking
lots, parking garages or other parking areas and designated in accordance with
that division
   (C)   Any motor vehicle that is parked in a special marked parking location
in violation of division (B) above may be towed or otherwise removed from the
parking location by the law enforcement agency of the political subdivision in
which the parking location is located. A motor vehicle that is so towed or
removed shall not be released to its owner until the owner presents proof of
ownership of the motor vehicle and pays all towing and storage fees normally
imposed by that political subdivision for towing and storing motor vehicles. If
the motor vehicle is a leased vehicle, it shall not be released until the
lessee presents proof that the person is the lessee of the motor vehicle and
pays all towing and storage fees normally imposed by that political subdivision
for towing and storing motor vehicles.
   (D)   No owner of an office, facility or parking garage where special
parking locations are required to be designated in accordance with division (A)
above shall fail to properly mark the special parking locations in accordance
with that division or fail to maintain the markings of special locations,
including the erection and maintenance of the fixed or movable signs.
   (E)   If a person is charged with a violation of division (B) above, it is
an affirmative defense to the charge that the person suffered an injury not
more than 72 hours prior to the time the person was issued the ticket or
citation and that, because of the injury, the person meets at least one of the
criteria contained in R.C. § 4503.44(A)(1).
   (F)   The clerk of the court shall pay every fine collected under this
section to the political subdivision in which the violation occurred. Except as
provided in this section, the political subdivision shall use the fine monies
it receives under this section to pay the expenses it incurs in complying with
the signage and notice requirements contained in division (A) above. The
political subdivision may use up to 50% of each fine it receives under this
section to pay the costs of educational advocacy, support and assistive
technology programs for person with disabilities, and for public improvements
within the political subdivision that benefit or assist persons with
disabilities, if governmental agencies or non profit organizations offer the
programs.
   (G)   As used in this section, HANDICAPPED PERSON means any person who has
lost the use of one or both legs or one or both arms, or any combination
thereof, who is blind, deaf or so severely handicapped as to be unable to move
about without the aid of crutches or a wheelchair, or whose mobility is
restricted by a permanent cardiovascular, pulmonary or other handicapping
condition.
(R.C. § 4511.69(K)(1)).
   (H)   Whoever violates this division is subject to a fine of $100.
(Prior Code, § 7.05.12)
§ 76.13 IMPOUNDING OF VEHICLES.
   Any police officer or meter attendant may order into storage any vehicle
parked at a place where parking is prohibited, or which has been parked for
more than one hour in excess of the time allowed for parking in that place, or
which has been involved in one or more violations of traffic ordinances for
which citation tags have been issued and not presented as required by §
78.01. Any person desiring to redeem such impounded vehicle, and having the
right to possession of such vehicle, shall first pay to the city the value of
those unpaid citations that caused such impoundment. The Chief of Police shall
designate the place of storage of any motor vehicle found in violation of this
ordinance. Any person desiring to redeem such impounded vehicle and having the
right to the possession of such vehicle shall pay all towing and storage
charges as set forth in § 7.06.17. Violations of this ordinance shall be a
minor misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 7.05.13)
§ 76.14 SALE OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLE WHEN UNCLAIMED.
   (A)   An unclaimed motor vehicle ordered into storage pursuant to R.C. §§
4513.60 or 4513.61, subject to one of the following.
      (1)   The Police Chief may dispose of it with a motor vehicle salvage
dealer or scrap metal processing facility as defined in R.C. § 4737.05, or with
any other facility owned by or under contract with the municipality for the
disposal of such motor vehicles.
      (2)   The Police Chief or a licensed auctioneer may sell the motor
vehicle at public auction, after giving notice thereof by advertisement,
published once a week for two successive weeks in a newspaper of general
circulation in the county or as provided in R.C. § 7.16.
      (3)   A towing service or storage facility may obtain title to the motor
vehicle in accordance with R.C. § 4505.104.
   (B)   Any monies accrued pursuant to division (A)(1) or (A)(2) above that
are in excess of the expenses resulting from the removal and storage of the
vehicle shall be credited to the general fund of the municipality.
(R.C. § 4513.62) (Prior Code, § 7.05.14)
§ 76.15 TRUCK PARKING.
   No truck and/or trailer shall park or stop or stand or be permitted to
remain on any thoroughfare in the city longer than four hours between the hours
of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of the day following such 9:00 p.m.; truck as used
in this chapter shall exclude all vehicles that have a gross unloaded weight of
5,000 pounds or less.
(Prior Code, § 7.05.15)
§ 76.16 LOCATION OF METERS; FAILURE TO DEPOSIT COINS.
   The City Manager, unless City Council shall revise or reverse his or her act
or decision, or the City Council by administrative order, may install and
provide for the maintenance and use of parking meters and meter spaces in any
area or zone where, in his or her or its opinion, the use of such parking
meters would benefit parking and traffic conditions. The provisions of this
code relating to parking meters shall not affect the validity of signs relating
to parking or other parking regulations of the code as they may apply to
unmetered zones or to metered zones when such meters are not required to be
operated. The City Manager shall establish the charge for each metered parking
space unless Council shall revise or reverse his or her act or decision, and
said City Manager shall keep a record of each metered parking space and
designate each parking space by number.
(Prior Code, § 7.05.16)
§ 76.17 CONSTRUCTION OF METERS.
   Each parking meter shall be constructed so that upon the insertion of a
required coin, in some cases followed by the turning of a handle, a specified
time or period for lawful parking will be displayed by an indicator in or on
its dial. Upon expiration of such period, unless or until further coins are
inserted, notice of a parking violation will be displayed on the dial of such
meter. Each meter shall indicate by proper legend the legal parking time limits
and the meter rates.
(Prior Code, § 7.05.17)
§ 76.18 METER SPACES.
   Meter spaces of proper dimensions shall be designated for each meter by
appropriate markings on the curb or street, but the absence of such markings
shall not be a defense for overtime parking at any meter. Vehicles, unless
oversized, shall be parked entirely within the areas designated by such
markings, and it shall be unlawful to park any standard sized vehicle across
any such marking, or to park more than one motor vehicle within a designated
parking space.
(Prior Code, § 7.05.18)
§ 76.19 EXEMPTED PARKING TIMES.
   The provisions requiring the deposit of coins in parking meters shall not
apply at times exempted by proper legend appearing on such meters, but shall
apply at all other times.
(Prior Code, § 7.05.19)
§ 76.20 OVERTIME PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful, during the hours and times not excluded by this code
or by legend appearing on such meter, to park and leave standing in any metered
parking space, a motor vehicle at or after the time when the meter displays a
notice of expiration of lawful parking time.
(Prior Code, § 7.05.20)
§ 76.21 PARKING METER RATES, REGULATIONS AND PENALTIES.
2-hour parking violations                    $20
12 inches from curb violation                $25
24-hour parking violations                   $25
After 30 days                                $20
After 48 hours                               $10
Cost of parking tickets paid within 24 hours $5
Driveway/cross                               $25
Expired registration                         $50
Fire lanes/hydrant                           $50
Meter rates - per hour                       $0.25
No parking area                              $50
Wrong direction/wrong side of street         $25
Yellow line                                  $25
 
   There shall be no limit on the length of time a meter can be occupied by a
vehicle. Vehicles can be ticketed once each hour after the initial violation.
Vehicles with two unpaid parking tickets are subject to being towed.
(Prior Code, § 7.05.21)
§ 76.22 TOKENS OR SLUGS.
   It shall be unlawful to insert or attempt to insert any token, slug or other
substitute for a lawful coin of the United States of America in a parking
meter.
(Prior Code, § 7.05.22)
§ 76.23 TAMPERING WITH METERS.
   It shall be unlawful to break, injure or tamper with a parking meter.
(Prior Code, § 7.05.23)
§ 76.24 HOLIDAY AND EVENING PARKING.
   The provisions relating to parking meters shall not apply on Sundays or
holidays, or on other days between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 7.05.24)
§ 76.25 DESIGNATION OF CITY MOTORCYCLE PARKING AREAS.
   The designated city motorcycle parking areas located at: [reserved].
(Prior Code, § 7.05.25)
§ 76.26 APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to on-street parking meters and
parking meters located in off-street parking lots owned or operated by the
city.
(Prior Code, § 7.05.26)
§ 76.27 TOWING FROM PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   The parking of vehicles on public or private property, excluding
dedicated streets and ways set out for public travel and heretofore regulated,
shall be prohibited without the consent of the owner of private property or the
proper governmental agencies in charge of public property.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked on public property in violation of rules
and regulations set out by the governmental agencies controlling the public
property.
   (C)   No vehicles shall be parked on any private property in violation of
any regulations set down by the owner of the private property.
(Prior Code, § 7.05.27)
§ 76.28 PRIVATE TOW-AWAY ZONES.
   (A)   An owner of a private parking area may create a “Private Tow-Away
Zone”: only if all of the following conditions are satisfied:
      (1)   The owner posts on his or her property a sign that is at least 18
inches by 24 inches in size, that is visible from all entrances to the property
and that contains at least all of the following information:
         (a)   A notice that the property is a private tow-away zone and that
vehicles not authorized to park on the property will be towed away;
         (b)   The telephone number of the person from whom a towed-away
vehicle can be recovered, and the address of the place to which the vehicle
will be taken and from which it may be recovered; and
         (c)   A statement that the vehicle may be recovered at any time during
the day or night upon the submission of proof of ownership and the payment of a
towing charge in an amount in accordance with R.C. § 4513.60(E).
      (2)   The place to which the towed vehicle is taken and from which it may
be recovered is conveniently located, is well lighted and is on or within a
reasonable distance of a regularly scheduled route of one or more modes of
public transportation, if any public transportation is available in the
municipal corporation or township in which the private tow-away zone is
located; and
      (3)   Any other information as required or modified by R.C. § 4513.60.
   (B)   The city shall make available to any resident the above-described
signs for a price equal to the city’s cost for said signs.
   (C)   By parking on a properly posted private tow-away zone without the
consent of the owner of the property, the owner or operator of a vehicle shall
be deemed to have consented to the removal and storage of such vehicle and the
payment of the costs of removal and storage in an amount not to exceed the
rates established by R.C. § 4513.60.
   (D)   If an owner or private tow-away-zone, or his, her or their agent,
removes, or causes the removal of, a vehicle pursuant to this section, the
owner, or agent, promptly shall notify the City Police Department of the
removal; the vehicle’s license number, make, model and color; the location from
which it was removed; the date and time of its removal; the telephone number of
the person from whom it may be recovered; and the address of the place to which
it has been taken and from which it may be recovered.
(Prior Code, § 7.05.28)
§ 76.29 PRIVATE PROPERTY; OFFICER’S DUTIES.
   No person shall remove or cause to be removed any vehicle from a private
tow-away zone unless in conformance with §§
76.30 and
76.31. Nothing in this code shall be deemed to prevent any police officer from
towing any vehicle while in the performance of his or her duty. Provided all
relevant provision of the city code have been satisfied.
(Prior Code, § 7.05.30)
§ 76.30 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The City Manager shall promulgate and publish a set of rules and regulations
to implement this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7.05.31)
§ 76.31 PARKING IN DOWNTOWN AREAS; LOADING AND UNLOADING.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any provision of this traffic code to the contrary, no
person shall park any vehicle, except in cases where the driver of the vehicle
is directed to do otherwise by a police officer, within the area of meters
numbered 4, 5 and 6, on Rocky Boot Way, for the purpose of loading or unloading
passengers or material between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 12:00 p.m. on Tuesday
and Friday; within the area on West Washington Street immediately in front of
the United States Post Office building, unless the vehicle is parked in a space
where parking is permitted by this traffic code, and parallel with and not more
than 12 inches from the right hand curb.
   (B)   Commercial vehicles while loading and/or unloading shall be permitted
to park for period of ten minutes in the closest available parking space to the
business from which they are receiving, or to which they are delivering.
(Prior Code, § 7.05.32)
§ 76.32 PARKING GARBAGE OR RUBBISH COLLECTION VEHICLES.
   No person shall park a truck or motor vehicle loaded with trash, garbage or
rubbish on the street of the municipality except for the purpose of loading or
unloading or emergency repairs. No person shall park a shall park a truck or
motor vehicle used for garbage purposes and which is empty on the streets of
the municipality, except for the purposes of loading or unloading or emergency
repairs.
(Prior Code, § 7.05.33)
§ 76.33 PURPOSE OF CHARGES.
   The coins required to be deposited in parking meters as provided in this
chapter are levied and assessed as fees to provide for the proper regulation
and control of traffic upon the public streets; the cost and supervision of
regulating the parking vehicles in the parking meter zones created hereby; the
acquisition, establishment, construction, maintenance, supervision and control
of metered off-street parking lots; and cover the cost of purchase,
supervision, protection, inspection, installation, operation, maintenance,
control and use of the parking meters described in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7.05.38)
§ 76.34 DISABLED VETERANS PARK FREE.
   Any motor vehicle bearing disabled veteran’s license plates shall be exempt
from the provisions of this chapter of the traffic code requiring money to be
deposited in parking meters for parking privileges on streets with the
municipality.
(Prior Code, § 7.05.39)
§ 76.35 RESERVED SPACES FOR MUNICIPAL USE.
   The City Manager is authorized to establish a sufficient number of parking
spaces for use by municipality-owned vehicles and vehicles under control of the
municipal court. Such parking spaces shall be clearly marked giving notice of
restricted use of such space. No person shall park any vehicle which is not
municipally owned or under the control of the municipal court in any space
marked off for such use. A violator, upon conviction, shall be subject to the
penalty described by §
79.99.
(Prior Code, § 7.05.40)
§ 76.36 METERED AREA REGULATIONS AND VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The City Manager shall cause all spaces in off-street metered parking
lots, except those as set forth in § 7.05.46, to be allotted and marked for
parking spaces and shall cause a parking meter to be installed for each parking
space so marked off.
   (B)   No person shall park any vehicle across any line or marking or park a
vehicle in such position that the same shall not be entirely within the parking
space designated by such line or markings. Conviction of a violation of this
section shall be subject to the penalty described by §
79.99.
   (C)   The parking meters operated, erected and installed hereunder shall be
operated, regulated and controlled and subject to the same regulations as those
provided in §§
76.01 through
76.38, and the funds derived from their operation shall be deposited in
accordance with the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 7.05.41)
§ 76.37 SNOW STREETS.
   In order to facilitate the movement of traffic and to combat the hazards of
excessive snow or ice on streets the following streets are designated snow
streets on which is prohibited when the surface of said street is covered with
snow or ice, and/or said snow or ice is in the process of being removed: Canal
Street.
(Prior Code, § 7.05.42)
§ 76.38 UNATTENDED TRAILER ON CITY STREET OR HIGHWAY.
   (A)   No owner/operator shall leave an unattached trailer on any city street
or highway for longer than four consecutive hours.
   (B)   No owner/operator of any commercially licensed trailer shall leave the
commercially licensed trailer unattached on any street or highway for longer
than eight consecutive hours. This section does not relieve the owner/operator
from parking in a legal parking space/area while the trailer is unattached.
(Prior Code, § 7.05.43) (Ord. 08-19, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 76.39 CONDITION WHEN MOTOR VEHICLE LEFT UNATTENDED.
   (A)   (1)   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit
it to stand unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition,
removing the key from the ignition, effectively setting the parking brake, and,
when the motor vehicle is standing upon any grade, turning the front wheels to
the curb or side of the highway.
      (2)   The requirements of this section relating to the stopping of the
engine, locking of the ignition and removing the key from the ignition of a
motor vehicle do not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   A motor vehicle that is parked on residential property;
         (b)   A motor vehicle that is locked, regardless of where it is
parked;
         (c)   An emergency vehicle; and
         (d)   A public safety vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.661)
§ 76.40 PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY IN VIOLATION OF POSTED PROHIBITION.
   (A)   If an owner of private property posts on the property in a conspicuous
manner a prohibition against parking on the property or conditions and
regulations under which parking is permitted, no person shall do either of the
following:
      (1)   Park a vehicle on the property without the owner’s consent; and
      (2)   Park a vehicle on the property in violation of any condition or
regulation posted by the owner.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.681)
§ 76.41 SELLING, WASHING OR REPAIRING VEHICLE UPON ROADWAY.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon any roadway for the
principal purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying such vehicle for sale; or
   (B)   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle except repairs
necessitated by an emergency.
§ 76.42 TRUCK LOADING ZONE.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or length of
time, other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pickup and
loading of materials, in any place marked as a truck loading zone during hours
when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no case shall
the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed 30 minutes.
§ 76.43 BUS STOPS AND TAXICAB STANDS.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle other than a bus in a
bus stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand, when any such stop or
stand has been officially designated and appropriately posted, except that the
driver of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of,
and while actually engaged in, loading or unloading passengers when such
stopping does not interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about
to enter such zone, and then only for a period not to exceed three minutes, if
such stopping is not prohibited therein by posted signs.
   (B)   No operator of a bus shall stop, stand or park such vehicle upon any
street or other public way at any place for the purpose of loading or unloading
passengers or their baggage other than at a bus stop so designated and posted
as such, except in case of an emergency.
   (C)   No operator of a bus shall fail to enter a bus stop on a street or
other public way in such a manner that the bus when stopped to load or unload
passengers or baggage is in a position with the right front wheel of such
vehicle not further than 18 inches from the curb and the bus approximately
parallel to the curb so as not to unduly impede the movement of other vehicular
traffic.
   (D)   No operator of a taxicab shall stand or park such vehicle upon any
street or other public way at any place other than in a taxicab stand so
designated and posted as such. This provision shall not prevent the operator of
a taxicab from temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or
parking provisions at any place for the purpose of, and while actually engaged
in, the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers.
§ 76.44 PARKING IN ALLEYS AND NARROW STREETS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle upon a street, other
than an alley, in such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available
less than ten feet of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular
traffic, except that a driver may stop temporarily during the actual loading or
unloading of passengers or when directed to by a police officer or traffic-
control signal.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by law, no person shall stop, stand or
park a vehicle within an alley except while actually loading and unloading, and
then only for a period not to exceed 30 minutes.
§ 76.45 REGISTERED OWNER PRIMA FACIE LIABLE FOR UNLAWFUL PARKING.
   In any hearing on a charge of illegally parking a motor vehicle, testimony
that a vehicle bearing a certain license plate was found unlawfully parked as
prohibited by the provisions of this traffic code, and further testimony that
the record of the State Registrar of Motor Vehicles shows that the license
plate was issued to the defendant, shall be prima facie evidence that the
vehicle which was unlawfully parked, was so parked by the defendant. A
certified registration copy, showing such fact, from the Registrar shall be
proof of such ownership.
§ 76.46 WAIVER.
   Any person charged with a violation of any provision of this chapter for
which payment of a prescribed fine may be made, may pay such sum in the manner
prescribed on the issued traffic ticket. Such payment shall be deemed a plea of
guilty, waiver of court appearance and acknowledgment of conviction of the
alleged offense and may be accepted in full satisfaction of the prescribed
penalty for such alleged violation. Payment of the prescribed fine need not be
accepted when laws prescribe that a certain number of such offenses shall
require court appearance.
CHAPTER 77: PASSENGERS; OPERATORS; ACCIDENTS
Section
   
77.01   Riding on outside of vehicle
   
77.02   Attaching bicycle or sled to vehicles
   
77.03   Hitchhiking
   
77.04   Overloading of vehicles prohibited
   
77.05   Opening door of vehicle into lane of traffic
   
77.06   Consuming alcoholic beverages in motor vehicles
   
77.07   Driving while fatigued
   
77.08   Exemptions from license requirements
   
77.09   Nonresident exemption
   
77.10   Temporary instruction permit
   
77.11   Lending license to another person
   
77.12   Employment to a minor to operate taxicab prohibited
   
77.13   Restriction against owner lending vehicle for use of another
   
77.14   Display of license
   
77.15   Driving while license is suspended
   
77.16   Display of license plates
   
77.17   Motor vehicle with concealed identity
   
77.18   Use of unauthorized plates
   
77.19   Operating without license plates
   
77.20   Operating with number of former owner
   
77.21   Resident operating with number issued by foreign state
   
77.22   Failure to file application for registration
   
77.23   Transfer of ownership and registration
   
77.24   Operation or sale of motor vehicle without certificate of title
   
77.25   Muffler; smoke screen device
   
77.26   Weaving
   
77.27   Defects or infirmities in driver
   
77.28   Driving on sidewalk
   
77.29   Limitations on certain sidewalks
   
77.30   Sidewalk violations
   
77.31   Tire squealing
   
77.32   School bus; unlawful to pass, when
   
77.33   Stopping at scene of accident on public roadway
   
77.34   Motor vehicle accident resulting in damage to realty
   
77.35   Reckless operation; control course and speed
   
77.36   Parking of bicycle
   
77.37   Compliance with traffic-control devices; right-of-way
§ 77.01 RIDING ON OUTSIDE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person while on a roadway outside a safety zone shall solicit a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) above, no person shall
stand on a highway for the purpose of soliciting employment, business or
contributions from the occupant of any vehicle.
      (2)   The legislative authority, by ordinance, may authorize the issuance
of a permit to a charitable organization to allow a person acting on behalf of
the organization to solicit charitable contributions from the occupant of a
vehicle by standing on a highway, other than a freeway as provided in R.C. §
4511.051(A)(1), that is under the jurisdiction of the municipality. The permit
shall be valid for only one period of time, which shall be specified in the
permit, in any calendar year. The legislative authority also may specify the
locations where contributions may be solicited and may impose any other
restrictions on or requirements regarding the manner in which the solicitations
are to be conducted that the legislative authority considers advisable.
      (3)   As used in division (B)(2) above, CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION means an
organization that has received from the Internal Revenue Service a currently
valid ruling or determination letter recognizing the tax-exempt status of the
organization pursuant to IRC § 501(c)(3).
   (C)   No person shall hang onto or ride on the outside of any motor vehicle
while it is moving upon a roadway, except mechanics or test engineers making
repairs or adjustments, or workers performing specialized highway or street
maintenance or construction under authority of a public agency.
   (D)   No operator shall knowingly permit any person to hang onto or ride on
the outside of any motor vehicle while it is moving upon a roadway, except
mechanics or test engineers making repairs or adjustments, or workers
performing specialized highway or street maintenance or construction under
authority of a public agency.
   (E)   No driver of a truck, trailer or semitrailer shall knowingly permit
any person who has not attained the age of 16 years to ride in the unenclosed
or unroofed cargo storage area of the driver’s vehicle if the vehicle is
traveling faster than 25 mph, unless either of the following applies:
      (1)   The cargo storage area of the vehicle is equipped with a properly
secured seat to which is attached a seat safety belt that is in compliance with
federal standards for an occupant restraining device as defined in R.C. §
4513.263(A)(2), the seat and seat safety belt were installed at the time the
vehicle was originally assembled, and the person riding in the cargo storage
area is in the seat and is wearing the seat safety belt; or
      (2)   An emergency exists that threatens the life of the driver or the
person being transported in the cargo storage area of the truck, trailer or
semitrailer.
   (F)   No driver of a truck, trailer or semitrailer shall permit any person,
except for those workers performing specialized highway or street maintenance
or construction under authority of a public agency, to ride in the cargo
storage area or on a tailgate of the driver’s vehicle while the tailgate is
unlatched.
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
any provision of divisions (A) through (D) above is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates any provision of divisions (A) through (D) above is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates any provision of divisions
(A) through (D) above is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (E) or (F) above is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.51) (Prior Code, § 7.03.01)
§ 77.02 ATTACHING BICYCLE OR SLED TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person riding upon any bicycle, electric bicycle, coaster,
roller skates, sled, skateboard or toy vehicle shall attach the same or self to
any vehicle upon a roadway. No operator shall knowingly permit any person
riding upon any bicycle, electric bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled,
skateboard or toy vehicle to attach the same or self to any vehicle while it is
moving upon a roadway.
      (2)   This section does not apply to towing a disabled vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.54) (Prior Code, § 7.03.02)
§ 77.03 HITCHHIKING.
   (A)   No person while on a roadway outside a safety zone shall solicit a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) below, no person shall
stand on a highway for the purpose of soliciting employment, business or
contributions from the occupant of any vehicle.
      (2)   The legislative authority, by ordinance, may authorize the issuance
of a permit to a charitable organization to allow a person acting on behalf of
the organization to solicit charitable contributions from the occupant of a
vehicle by standing on a highway, other than a freeway as provided in R.C. §
4511.051(A)(1), that is under the jurisdiction of the municipality. The permit
shall be valid for only one period of time, which shall be specified in the
permit, in any calendar year. The legislative authority also may specify the
locations where contributions may be solicited and may impose any other
restrictions on or requirements regarding the manner in which the solicitations
are to be conducted that the legislative authority considers advisable.
      (3)   As used in division (B)(2) above, CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION means an
organization that has received from the Internal Revenue Service a currently
valid ruling or determination letter recognizing the tax-exempt status of the
organization pursuant to IRC § 501(c)(3).
   (C)   No person shall hang onto or ride on the outside of any motor vehicle
while it is moving upon a roadway, except mechanics or test engineers making
repairs or adjustments, or workers performing specialized highway or street
maintenance or construction under authority of a public agency.
   (D)   No operator shall knowingly permit any person to hang onto or ride on
the outside of any motor vehicle while it is moving upon a roadway, except
mechanics or test engineers making repairs or adjustments, or workers
performing specialized highway or street maintenance or construction under
authority of a public agency.
   (E)   No driver of a truck, trailer or semitrailer shall knowingly permit
any person who has not attained the age of 16 years to ride in the unenclosed
or unroofed cargo storage area of the driver’s vehicle if the vehicle is
traveling faster than 25 mph, unless either of the following applies:
      (1)   The cargo storage area of the vehicle is equipped with a properly
secured seat to which is attached a seat safety belt that is in compliance with
federal standards for an occupant restraining device as defined in R.C. §
4513.263(A)(2), the seat and seat safety belt were installed at the time the
vehicle was originally assembled, and the person riding in the cargo storage
area is in the seat and is wearing the seat safety belt; or
      (2)   An emergency exists that threatens the life of the driver or the
person being transported in the cargo storage area of the truck, trailer or
semitrailer.
   (F)   No driver of a truck, trailer or semitrailer shall permit any person,
except for those workers performing specialized highway or street maintenance
or construction under authority of a public agency, to ride in the cargo
storage area or on a tailgate of the driver’s vehicle while the tailgate is
unlatched.
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
any provision of divisions (A) through (D) above is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates any provision of divisions (A) through (D) above is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates any provision of divisions
(A) through (D) above is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (E) or (F) above is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.51) (Prior Code, § 7.03.03)
§ 77.04 OVERLOADING OF VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there
are in the front seat such number of persons, as to obstruct the view of the
driver to the front or sides of the vehicle, or to interfere with the driver’s
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in a position as to interfere
with the driver’s view ahead or to the sides, or to interfere with the driver’s
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall open the door of a vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, and can be done
without interfering with the movement of other traffic, nor shall any person
leave a door open on the side of a vehicle available to moving traffic for a
period of time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.70) (Prior Code, § 7.03.04)
§ 77.05 OPENING DOOR OF VEHICLE INTO LANE OF TRAFFIC.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to open the door of a motor vehicle into
the lane of traffic without due regard for other traffic upon the duly
dedicated streets and highways of the city, nor shall any person interfere with
the movement of traffic by the opening of a vehicle door into a lane of
traffic. No person shall leave a door open on the side of a vehicle available
to moving traffic for a period of time longer than necessary to load or unload
passengers.
(Prior Code, § 7.03.05)
§ 77.06 CONSUMING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person shall consume any beer or alcoholic beverage in a motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 7.03.06)
§ 77.07 DRIVING WHILE FATIGUED.
   (A)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle, as defined in R.C. §
4506.01, or a commercial car or commercial tractor, as defined in R.C. §
4501.01, while the person’s ability or alertness is so impaired by fatigue,
illness or other causes that it is unsafe for the person to drive such vehicle.
No driver shall use any drug which would adversely affect the driver’s ability
or alertness.
   (B)   No owner, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01, of a commercial motor vehicle,
commercial car or commercial tractor or a person employing or otherwise
directing the driver of such vehicle, shall require or knowingly permit a
driver in any such condition described in division (A) above to drive such
vehicle upon any street or highway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.79, or R.C. §§ 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764 or
4511.77 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.79) (Prior Code, § 7.03.10)
§ 77.08 EXEMPTIONS FROM LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   No person shall permit the operation of a motor vehicle
upon any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking, knowing the operator does not have a valid
driver’s license issued to the operator by the Registrar of Motor Vehicle or a
deputy registrar under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid commercial driver’s license
issued under R.C. Chapter 4506. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
whoever violates this division is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor.
         (b)   When the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender
shall be sentenced pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours.
         (c)   The failure of an offender to complete a term of community
service imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt
under R.C. § 2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
         (d)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this
section or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   No person shall receive a driver’s license, or a motorcycle
operator’s endorsement of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit or identification card unless and until the person
surrenders to the Registrar or a deputy registrar all valid licenses, temporary
instruction permits and identification cards issued to the person by another
jurisdiction recognized by this state.
      (3)   The Registrar shall report the cancellation of a license, temporary
instruction permit or identification card to the issuing authority, together
with information that the license, temporary instruction permit or
identification card is now issued in this state. The Registrar or a deputy
registrar shall destroy any such license, temporary instruction permit or
identification card that is not returned to the issuing authority.
      (4)   No person shall possess more than one valid license, temporary
instruction permit or identification card at any time.
(R.C. § 4507.02(A))
   (B)   (1)   No person shall be required to obtain a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license for the purpose of temporarily driving, operating, drawing,
moving or propelling a road roller or road machinery upon a street or highway.
      (2)   No person shall be required to obtain a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license for the purpose of temporarily driving, operating, drawing,
moving or propelling any agricultural tractor or implement of husbandry upon a
street or highway at a speed of 25 mph or less.
      (3)   No person shall drive, operate, draw, move or propel any
agricultural tractor or implement of husbandry upon a street or highway at a
speed greater than 25 mph unless the person has a current, valid driver’s or
commercial driver’s license.
      (4)   No person having a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license
shall be required to have a motorcycle operator’s endorsement to operate a
motorcycle having three wheels with a motor of not more than 50 cubic
centimeters piston displacement.
      (5)   No person having a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license
shall be required to have a motorcycle operator’s endorsement to operate an
autocycle or a cab-enclosed motorcycle.
      (6)   Every person on active duty in the military or naval forces of the
United States, when furnished with a driver’s permit and when operating an
official motor vehicle in connection with such duty, is exempt from the license
requirements of R.C. Chapters 4506 and 4507. Every person on active duty in the
military or naval forces of the United States or in service with the peace
corps, volunteers in service to America or the foreign service of the United
States, is exempt from the license requirements of such sections for the period
of the person’s active duty or service and for six months thereafter, provided
such person was a licensee under such sections at the time the person commenced
the person’s active duty or service. This section does not prevent such a
person or the person’s spouse or dependent from making an application, as
provided in R.C. § 4507.10(C), for the renewal of a driver’s license or
motorcycle operator’s endorsement or as provided in R.C. § 4506.14 for the
renewal of a commercial driver’s license during the period of the person’s
active duty or service.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) above is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.03) (Prior Code, § 7.03.13)
§ 77.09 NONRESIDENT EXEMPTION.
   (A)   Nonresidents, permitted to drive upon the highways of their own state,
may operate any motor vehicle upon any highway in this state without
examination or license under R.C. §§ 4507.01 through 4507.39, inclusive, upon
condition that such nonresident may be required at any time or place to prove
lawful possession or their right to operate such motor vehicle, and to
establish proper identity.
(R.C. § 4507.04)
   (B)   Surrender of driver’s license from another state.
      (1)   Any person who becomes a resident of this state, within 30 days of
becoming a resident, shall surrender any driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit or identification card issued by another state to the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a deputy registrar. If such a person intends to
operate a motor vehicle upon the public roads or highways, the person shall
apply for a temporary instruction permit or driver’s license in this state. If
the person fails to apply for a driver’s license or temporary instruction
permit or within 30 days of becoming a resident, the person shall not operate
any motor vehicle in this state under a license or permit issued by another
state.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) above is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
         (b)   The offense established under division (B)(2)(a) above is a
strict liability offense and strict liability is a culpable mental state for
purposes of R.C. § 2901.20.
         (c)   The designation of this offense as a strict liability offense
shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for which there is no
specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
      (3)   For purposes of division (B)(1) above, RESIDENT means any person to
whom any of the following applies.
         (a)   The person maintains their principal residence in this state and
does not reside in this state as a result of the person’s active service in the
United States armed forces.
         (b)   The person is determined by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles to
be a resident in accordance with standards adopted by the Registrar under R.C.
§ 4507.01.
(R.C. § 4507.213) (Prior Code, § 7.03.14)
§ 77.10 TEMPORARY INSTRUCTION PERMIT.
   Holders of valid temporary instruction permits under R.C. § 4507.05, issued
by the state, may drive a motor vehicle upon the highways when accompanied by a
licensed operator or chauffeur who is actually occupying a seat beside the
driver; provided the holder thereof has such permit in his or her immediate
possession.
(Prior Code, § 7.03.15)
§ 77.11 LENDING LICENSE TO ANOTHER PERSON.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Display, or cause or permit to be displayed, or possess any
identification card, driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit
knowing the same to be fictitious, or to have been canceled, suspended or
altered;
      (2)   Lend to a person not entitled thereto, or knowingly permit a person
not entitled thereto to use any identification card, driver’s or commercial
driver’s license, temporary instruction permit or commercial driver’s license
temporary instruction permit issued to the person so lending or permitting the
use thereof;
      (3)   Display, or represent as one’s own, any identification card,
driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit or
commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit not issued to the
person so displaying the same;
      (4)   Fail to surrender to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, upon the
Registrar’s demand, any identification card, driver’s or commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit that has been suspended or canceled; or
      (5)   In any application for an identification card, driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit or any renewal, reprint or
duplicate thereof, knowingly conceal a material fact or present any physician’s
statement required under R.C. § 4507.08 or 4507.081 when knowing the same to be
false or fictitious.
   (B)   Whoever violates any division of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.30) (Prior Code, § 7.03.17)
Statutory reference:
   Use of license to violate liquor laws; suspension; procedures, see R.C. §
4510.33
§ 77.12 EMPLOYMENT TO A MINOR TO OPERATE TAXICAB PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the definition of CHAUFFEUR in R.C. § 4501.01, no
person shall employ any minor for the purpose of operating a taxicab.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4507.321) (Prior Code, § 7.03.22)
§ 77.13 RESTRICTION AGAINST OWNER LENDING VEHICLE FOR USE OF ANOTHER.
   No person shall authorize or knowingly permit a motor vehicle owned by him
or her or under his or her control to be driven by any person if any of the
following apply.
   (A)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the other
person does not have a valid driver’s license or permit or valid nonresident
driving privileges.
   (B)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the other
person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privileges have been suspended or canceled under any provision of the
Ohio Revised Code.
   (C)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the other
person’s act of driving the motor vehicle would violate any prohibition
contained in R.C. Chapter 4509.
   (D)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the other
person’s act of driving would violate R.C. § 4511.09 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (E)   Without limiting or precluding the consideration of any other evidence
in determining whether a violation of division (A) through (D) above has
occurred, it shall be prima-facie evidence that the offender knows or has
reasonable cause to believe that the operator of the motor vehicle owned by the
offender or under the offender’s control is in a category described in division
(A) through (D) above if any of the following applies.
      (1)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A) or (D) above, the offender and the operator of the motor vehicle
reside in the same household and are related by consanguinity or affinity.
      (2)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (B) above, the offender and the operator of the motor vehicle reside
in the same household, and the offender knows or has reasonable cause to
believe that the operator has been charged with or convicted of any violation
of law or ordinance, or has committed any other act or omission, that would or
could result in the suspension or cancellation of the operator’s license,
permit or privilege.
      (3)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (D) above, the offender and the operator of the motor vehicle occupied
the motor vehicle together at the time of the offense.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violated this section is guilty of wrongful entrustment
of a motor vehicle, a misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition to the
penalties imposed under R.C. Chapter 2929, the Court shall impose a class seven
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license or non-resident operating
privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7), and if the vehicle
involved in the offense is registered in the name of the offender, the court
shall order one of the following.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (F)(2) or (F)(3) below,
the Court shall order, for 30 days, the immobilization of the vehicle involved
in the offense and the impoundment of that vehicle’s license plates, the order
shall be issued and enforced under R.C. § 4503.233.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one violation of this section or substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, the court shall order, for 60 days, the immobilization of the
vehicle involved in the offense and the impoundment of that vehicle’s license
plates, the order shall be issued and enforced under R.C. § 4503.233.
         (c)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, the Court shall order the criminal forfeiture to the State
of the vehicle involved in the offense. The order shall be issued and enforced
under R.C. § 4503.234.
      (2)   If a title to a motor vehicle that is subject to an order for
criminal forfeiture under this division is assigned or transferred and R.C. §
4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, in addition to or independent of any other
penalty established by law, the court may fine the National Auto Dealer’s
Association. The proceeds from any fine imposed under this division shall be
distributed in accordance with R.C. § 4503.24(C)(2).
(Prior Code, § 7.03.23)
§ 77.14 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall display the operator’s driver’s
license, or furnish satisfactory proof that the operator has a driver’s
license, upon demand of any peace officer or of any person damaged or injured
in any collision in which the licensee may be involved. When a demand is
properly made, and the operator has the operator’s driver’s license on or about
the operator’s person, the operator shall not refuse to display the license. A
person’s failure to furnish satisfactory evidence that the person is licensed
under R.C. Chapter 4507 when the person does not have the person’s license on
or about the person’s person shall be prima facie evidence of the person’s not
having obtained a driver’s license.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) below, whoever violates
this section is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an
unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section,
R.C. § 4507.35, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense
is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.35) (Prior Code, § 7.03.24)
§ 77.15 DRIVING WHILE LICENSE IS SUSPENDED.
   (A)   No person, whose operator’s or chauffeur’s license has been suspended
or revoked, under sections of the Ohio Revised Code, shall drive any motor
vehicle within this city while such license is suspended or revoked unless the
person is granted limited driving privileges and is operating the motor vehicle
in accordance with the terms of the limited driving privileges.
(R.C. § 4510.41)
   (B)   Any nonresident or other person, whose operator’s or chauffeur’s
license, or right or privilege to operate a motor vehicle in this state, has
been suspended or revoked, shall not operate a motor vehicle in this city under
a license, permit or registration certificate issued by any other jurisdiction,
or otherwise operate a motor vehicle in this city during a period of
suspension, or within one year after date of such revocation.
(R.C. § 4507.39)
   (C)   The Court shall impose upon the offender a class seven suspension of
the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
   (D)   If the person has not been convicted of this section or a similar
state or municipal ordinance, the court shall order the immobilization of the
vehicle involved in the offense for 30 days in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233
and the impoundment of that vehicle’s license plates for 30 days, issued and
enforced under R.C. § 4503.233. If the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to one violation of this section or substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the Court shall order, for 60 days, the
immobilization of the vehicle involved in the offense and the impoundment of
that vehicle’s license plates, the order shall be issued and enforced under
R.C. § 4503.233. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, the Court shall order the forfeiture to the state of the
vehicle involved in the offense. The order shall be issued and enforced under
R.C. § 4503.234.
(Prior Code, § 7.03.25)
§ 77.16 DISPLAY OF LICENSE PLATES.
   (A)   (1)   No person who is the owner or operator of a motor vehicle shall
fail to display in plain view on the rear of the motor vehicle a license plate
that displays the distinctive number and registration mark assigned to the
motor vehicle by the State Director of Public Safety, including any county
identification sticker and any validation sticker when required by and issued
under R.C. §§ 4503.19 and 4503.191. However, a commercial tractor shall display
the license plate on the front of the commercial tractor.
      (2)   The license plate shall be securely fastened so as not to swing,
and shall not be covered by any material that obstructs its visibility.
      (3)   No person to whom a temporary motor vehicle license registration
has been issued for the use of a motor vehicle under R.C. § 4503.182, and no
operator of that motor vehicle, shall fail to display the temporary motor
vehicle license registration in plain view from the rear of the vehicle either
in the rear window or on an external rear surface of the motor vehicle.
      (4)   No person shall cover a temporary motor vehicle license
registration by any material that obstructs its visibility.
(R.C. § 4503.21(A))
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by R.C. §§ 4503.103, 4503.173, 4503.41,
4503.43 and 4503.46, no person who is the owner or chauffeur of a motor vehicle
operated or driven upon the public roads or highways shall fail to file
annually the application for registration or to pay the tax therefor.
(R.C. § 4503.11(A))
   (C)    (1)   Within 30 days of becoming a resident of this state, any person
who owns a motor vehicle operated or driven upon the public roads or highways
shall register the vehicle in this state. If such a person fails to register a
vehicle owned by the person, the person shall not operate any motor vehicle in
this state under a license issued by another state.
      (2)   For purposes of division (C)(1) above, RESIDENT means any person to
whom any of the following applies:
         (a)   The person maintains their principal residence in this state and
does not reside in this state as a result of the person’s active service in the
United States armed forces.
         (b)   The person is determined by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles to
be a resident in accordance with standards adopted by the Registrar under R.C.
§ 4507.01.
(R.C. § 4503.111(A), (C))
   (D)   Upon the transfer of ownership of a motor vehicle, the registration of
the motor vehicle expires, and the original owner immediately shall remove the
license plates from the motor vehicle, except as otherwise provided in R.C. §
4503.12.
(R.C. § 4503.12(A))
   (E)   (1)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A) above is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
         (b)   The offenses established under division (A) above are strict
liability offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of these
offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be construed to imply that any
other offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a
strict liability offense.
(R.C. § 4503.21(B), (C))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) above is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4503.11(D))
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (C) above is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
         (b)   The offense established under division (E)(3)(a) of this section
is a strict liability offense and strict liability is a culpable mental state
for purposes of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of this offense as a strict
liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
(R.C. § 4503.111(B))
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D) above is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4503.12(D))
(Prior Code, § 7.03.26)
§ 77.17 MOTOR VEHICLE WITH CONCEALED IDENTITY.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly buy, offer to sell, receive, dispose of,
conceal or have in his or her possession any motor vehicle, as defined in R.C.
§ 4501.01, from which the manufacturer’s serial number or any other
distinguishing number or identification mark has been removed, defaced, covered
or destroyed for the purpose of concealing or destroying the identity of the
said motor vehicle.
   (B)   This section dos not apply to the possession of an owner, or the
owner’s insurer, who provides satisfactory evidence of all of the following:
      (1)   That the vehicle identification number or derivative thereof on the
vehicle or part has been removed, defaced, covered, altered or destroyed, after
the owner acquired such possession, by another person without the consent of
the owner, by accident or other casualty not due to the owner’s purpose to
conceal or destroy the identity of the vehicle or vehicle part, or by ordinary
wear and tear;
      (2)   That the person is the owner of the vehicle as shown on a valid
certificate of title issued by this State or certificate of title or other
lawful evidence of title issued in another state, in a clear chain of title
beginning with the manufacturer; and
      (3)   That the original identity of the vehicle can be established in a
manner that excludes any reasonable probability that the vehicle has been
stolen from another person.
   (C)   This section does not apply to the good faith acquisition and
disposition of vehicles and vehicle parts as junk or scrap in the ordinary
course of business by a scrap metal processing facility as defined in R.C. §
4737.05(D) or by a motor vehicle salvage dealer licensed under R.C. Chapter
4738.
   (D)   Violation of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4549.07) (Prior Code, § 7.03.27)
§ 77.18 USE OF UNAUTHORIZED PLATES.
   (A)   No person shall operate or drive a motor vehicle upon the public roads
and highways in this municipality if it displays a license plate or a
distinctive number or identification mark that meets any of the following
criteria:
      (1)   It is fictitious;
      (2)   It is a counterfeit or an unlawfully made copy of any distinctive
number or identification mark; and
      (3)   It belongs to another motor vehicle, provided that this section
does not apply to a motor vehicle that is operated on the public roads and
highways in this municipality when the motor vehicle displays license plates
that originally were issued for a motor vehicle that previously was owned by
the same person who owns the motor vehicle that is operated on the public roads
and highways in this municipality during the 30-day period described in R.C. §
4503.12(A)(4).
   (B)   A person who fails to comply with the transfer of registration
provisions of R.C. § 4503.12 and is charged with a violation of that section
shall not be charged with a violation of this section. Whoever violates
division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3) above is guilty of operating a motor vehicle
bearing an invalid license plate or identification mark, a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the third degree on each
subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.08) (Prior Code, § 7.03.28)
§ 77.19 OPERATING WITHOUT LICENSE PLATES.
   (A)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated upon a public road or
highway a motor vehicle of a manufacturer or dealer unless the vehicle carries
and displays a placard, except as provided in R.C. § 4503.21, issued by the
Director of Public Safety that displays the registration number of its
manufacturer or dealer.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) above is guilty of illegal operation of
a manufacturer’s or dealer’s motor vehicle, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.10) (Prior Code, § 7.03.29)
§ 77.20 OPERATING WITH NUMBER OF FORMER OWNER.
   (A)   No person shall operate or drive upon the highways of this
municipality a motor vehicle acquired from a former owner who has registered
the motor vehicle, while the motor vehicle displays the distinctive number or
identification mark assigned to it upon its original registration.
(R.C. § 4549.11(A))
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operation of a motor
vehicle bearing license plates or an identification mark issued to another, a
minor misdemeanor on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on
each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.11(B))
(Prior Code, § 7.03.30)
§ 77.21 RESIDENT OPERATING WITH NUMBER ISSUED BY FOREIGN STATE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner of a motor vehicle and a resident of this
state shall operate or drive the motor vehicle upon the highways of this
municipality while it displays a distinctive number or identification mark
issued by or under the authority of another state, without complying with the
laws of this state relating to the registration and identification of motor
vehicles.
(R.C. § 4549.12(A))
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal operation by a
resident of this state of a motor vehicle bearing the distinctive number or
identification mark issued by a foreign jurisdiction, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.12(B))
(Prior Code, § 7.03.31)
§ 77.22 FAILURE TO FILE APPLICATION FOR REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Except as provided by R.C. §§ 4503.103, 4503.173, 4503.41, 4503.43 and
4503.46, no person who is the owner or chauffeur of a motor vehicle operated or
driven upon the public roads or highways shall fail to file annually the
application for registration or to pay the tax therefor.
   (B)   Except as provided by R.C. §§ 4503.12 and 4503.16, the taxes payable
on all applications made under R.C. §§ 4503.10 and 4503.102 shall be the sum of
the tax due under division (B)(1)(a) or (B)(1)(b) below plus the tax due under
division (B)(2)(a) or (B)(2)(b) below:
      (1)   (a)   If the application is made before the second month of the
current registration period to which the motor vehicle is assigned as provided
in R.C. § 4503.101, the tax due is the full amount of the tax provided in R.C.
§ 4503.04;
         (b)   If the application is made during or after the second month of
the current registration period to which the motor vehicle is assigned as
provided in R.C. § 4503.101, and prior to the beginning of the next such
registration period, the amount of the tax provided in R.C. § 4503.04 shall be
reduced by one-twelfth of the amount of such tax, rounded upward to the nearest
cent, multiplied by the number of full months that have elapsed in the current
registration period. The resulting amount shall be rounded upward to the next
highest dollar and shall be the amount of tax due.
      (2)   (a)   If the application is made before the sixth month of the
current registration period to which the motor vehicle is assigned as provided
in R.C. § 4503.101, the amount of tax due is the full amount of local motor
vehicle license taxes levied under R.C. Chapter 4504;
         (b)   If the application is made during or after the sixth month of
the current registration period to which the motor vehicle is assigned as
provided in R.C. § 4503.101 and prior to the beginning of the next such
registration period, the amount of tax due is one-half of the amount of local
motor vehicle license taxes levied under R.C. Chapter 4504.
   (C)   The taxes payable on all applications made under R.C. § 4503.103(A)(3)
shall be the sum of the tax due under division (B)(1)(a) or (B)(1)(b) above
plus the tax due under division (B)(2)(a) or (B)(2)(b) above for the first year
plus the full amount of the tax provided in R.C. § 4503.04 and the full amount
of local motor vehicle license taxes levied under R.C. Chapter 4504 for each
succeeding year.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4503.11) (Prior Code, § 7.03.32)
§ 77.23 TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP AND REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Upon the transfer of ownership of a motor vehicle, the registration of
the motor vehicle expires, and the original owner immediately shall remove the
license plates from the motor vehicle, except that:
      (1)   If a statutory merger or consolidation results in the transfer of
ownership of a motor vehicle from a constituent corporation to the surviving
corporation, or if the incorporation of a proprietorship or partnership results
in the transfer of ownership of a motor vehicle from the proprietorship or
partnership to the corporation, the registration shall be continued upon the
filing by the surviving or new corporation, within 30 days of such transfer, of
an application for an amended certificate of registration. Upon a proper
filing, the registrar of motor vehicles shall issue an amended certificate of
registration in the name of the new owner.
      (2)   If the death of the owner of a motor vehicle results in the
transfer of ownership of the motor vehicle to the surviving spouse of the owner
or if a motor vehicle is owned by two persons under joint ownership with right
of survivorship established under R.C. § 2131.12 and one of those persons dies,
the registration shall be continued upon the filing by the survivor of an
application for an amended certificate of registration. In relation to a motor
vehicle that is owned by two persons under joint ownership with right of
survivorship established under R.C. § 2131.12, the application shall be
accompanied by a copy of the certificate of title that specifies that the
vehicle is owned under joint ownership with right of survivorship. Upon a
proper filing, the registrar shall issue an amended certificate of registration
in the name of the survivor.
      (3)   If the death of the owner of a motor vehicle results in the
transfer of ownership of the motor vehicle to a transfer-on-death beneficiary
or beneficiaries designated under R.C. § 2131.13, the registration shall be
continued upon the filing by the transfer-on-death beneficiary or beneficiaries
of an application for an amended certificate of registration. The application
shall be accompanied by a copy of the certificate R.C. § 2131.13. Upon a proper
filing, the registrar shall issue an amended certificate of registration in the
name of the transfer-on-death beneficiary or beneficiaries.
      (4)   (a)   If the original owner of a motor vehicle that has been
transferred makes application for the registration of another motor vehicle at
any time during the remainder of the registration period for which the
transferred motor vehicle was registered, the owner may file an application for
transfer of the registration and, where applicable, the license plates. The
transfer of the registration and, where applicable, the license plates from the
motor vehicle for which they originally were issued to a succeeding motor
vehicle purchased by the same person in whose name the original registration
and license plates were issued shall be done within a period not to exceed 30
days. During that 30-day period, the license plates from the motor vehicle for
which they originally were issued may be displayed on the succeeding motor
vehicle, and the succeeding motor vehicle may be operated on the public roads
and highways in this state.
         (b)   At the time of application for transfer, the registrar shall
compute and collect the amount of tax due on the succeeding motor vehicle,
based upon the amount that would be due on a new registration as of the date on
which the transfer is made less a credit for the unused portion of the original
registration beginning on that date. If the credit exceeds the amount of tax
due on the new registration, no refund shall be made. In computing the amount
of tax due and credits to be allowed under this division, the provisions of
R.C. § 4503.11(B)(1)(a) and (B)(1)(b) shall apply. As to passenger cars,
noncommercial vehicles, motor homes, and motorcycles, transfers within or
between these classes of motor vehicles only shall be allowed. If the
succeeding motor vehicle is of a different class than the motor vehicle for
which the registration originally was issued, new license plates also shall be
issued upon the surrender of the license plates originally issued and payment
of the fees provided in R.C. § 4503.10(C) and (D).
      (5)   (a)   The owner of a commercial car having a gross vehicle weight
or combined gross vehicle weight of more than ten thousand pounds may transfer
the registration of that commercial car to another commercial car the owner
owns without transferring ownership of the first commercial car. At any time
during the remainder of the registration period for which the first commercial
car was registered, the owner may file an application for the transfer of the
registration and, where applicable, the license plates, accompanied by the
certificate of registration of the first commercial car. The amount of any tax
due or credit to be allowed for a transfer of registration under this division
shall be computed in accordance with division (A)(4) above.
         (b)   No commercial car to which a registration is transferred under
this division shall be operated on a public road or highway in this state until
after the transfer of registration is completed in accordance with this
division.
      (6)   Upon application to the registrar or a deputy registrar, a person
who owns or leases a motor vehicle may transfer special license plates assigned
to that vehicle to any other vehicle that the person owns or leases or that is
owned or leased by the person’s spouse. As appropriate, the application also
shall be accompanied by a power of attorney for the registration of a leased
vehicle and a written statement releasing the special plates to the applicant.
Upon a proper filing, the registrar or deputy registrar shall assign the
special license plates to the motor vehicle owned or leased by the applicant
and issue a new certificate of registration for that motor vehicle.
      (7)   If a corporation transfers the ownership of a motor vehicle to an
affiliated corporation, the affiliated corporation may apply to the registrar
for the transfer of the registration and any license plates. The registrar may
require the applicant to submit documentation of the corporate relationship and
shall determine whether the application for registration transfer is made in
good faith and not for the purposes of circumventing the provisions of this
chapter. Upon a proper filing, the registrar shall issue an amended certificate
of registration in the name of the new owner.
   (B)   An application under division (A) above shall be accompanied by a
service fee equal to the amount established under R.C. § 4503.038, a transfer
fee of one dollar, and the original certificate of registration, if applicable.
   (C)   Neither the registrar nor a deputy registrar shall transfer a
registration under division (A) of this section if the registration is
prohibited by R.C. §§ 2935.27(D), 2937.221(A), 4503.13(A), 4503.234(D), 4510.22
(D), 4521.10(B)(1) or 5537.041(B).
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) above is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (E)   As used in division (A)(6) above, SPECIAL LICENSE PLATES means either
of the following:
      (1)   Any license plates for which the person to whom the license plates
are issued must pay an additional fee in excess of the fees prescribed in R.C.
§ 4503.04, R.C. Chapter 4504 and the service fee prescribed in R.C. § 4503.10
(D) or (G); or
      (2)   License plates issued under R.C. § 4503.44.
(R.C. § 4503.12) (Prior Code, § 7.03.33)
§ 77.24 OPERATION OR SALE OF MOTOR VEHICLE WITHOUT CERTIFICATE OF TITLE.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate in this municipality a motor vehicle for which a
certificate of title is required without having that certificate in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 4505 or, if a physical certificate of title has not been
issued for a motor vehicle, operate the motor vehicle in this state knowing
that the ownership information relating to the vehicle has not been entered
into the automated title processing system by a Clerk of a Court of Common
Pleas;
      (2)   Display or display for sale or sell as a dealer or acting on behalf
of a dealer, a motor vehicle without having obtained a manufacturer’s or
importer’s certificate, a certificate of title or an assignment of a
certificate of title for it as provided in R.C. Chapter 4505;
      (3)   Fail to surrender any certificate of title or any certificate of
registration or license plates upon cancellation of the same by the Registrar
of Motor Vehicles and notice of the cancellation as prescribed in R.C. Chapter
4505;
      (4)   Fail to surrender the certificate of title to a Clerk of a Court of
Common Pleas as provided in R.C. Chapter 4505 in case of the destruction or
dismantling or change of a motor vehicle in such respect that it is not the
motor vehicle described in the certificate of title;
      (5)   Violate any rules adopted pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4505;
      (6)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapters 4505 and 4517, sell
at wholesale a motor vehicle ownership of which is not evidenced by a state
certificate of title, or the current certificate of title issued for the motor
vehicle, or the manufacturer’s certificate of origin, and all title assignments
that evidence the seller’s ownership of the motor vehicle, and an odometer
disclosure statement that complies with R.C. § 4505.06 and subchapter IV of the
“Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act”, 86 Stat. 961 (1972), 15
U.S.C. § 1981; and
      (7)   Operate in this state a motor vehicle knowing that the certificate
of title to the vehicle or ownership of the vehicle as otherwise reflected in
the automated title processing system has been canceled.
   (B)   This section does not apply to persons engaged in the business of
warehousing or transporting motor vehicles for the purpose of salvage
disposition.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $200,
imprisoned not more than 90 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4505.18) (Prior Code, § 7.03.34)
§ 77.25 MUFFLER; SMOKE SCREEN DEVICE.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle and motorcycle with an internal combustion
engine shall, at all times, be equipped with a muffler which is in good working
order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise, and no
person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass or similar device upon a motor
vehicle on a highway. Every motorcycle muffler shall be equipped with baffle
plates.
      (2)   No person shall own, operate or have in the person’s possession any
motor vehicle or motorcycle equipped with a device for producing excessive
smoke or gas, or so equipped as to permit oil or any other chemical to flow
into or upon the exhaust pipe or muffler of such vehicle, or equipped in any
way to produce or emit smoke or dangerous or annoying gases from any portion of
such vehicle, other than the ordinary gases emitted by the exhaust of an
internal combustion engine under normal operation.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.22) (Prior Code, § 7.03.35)
§ 77.26 WEAVING.
   No person shall drive a vehicle upon any highway in a weaving or zigzag
course, unless such irregular course is made necessary by traffic exigencies.
(Prior Code, § 7.03.36)
§ 77.27 DEFECTS OR INFIRMITIES IN DRIVER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person who is subject to epilepsy,
vertigo or other infirmity of mind or body which would render him or her
incapable of the safe operation of a vehicle, to operate the same.
   (B)   The foregoing provision shall not bar a person whose eyesight is
defective from operating a vehicle, if his or her vision is brought to normal
by a proper correction.
(Prior Code, § 7.03.37)
§ 77.28 DRIVING ON SIDEWALK.
   No person shall drive, stand or park a motor vehicle on a sidewalk or
without the curb or gutter line of a street except at a permanent or temporary
driveway.
(Prior Code, § 7.03.38)
§ 77.29 LIMITATIONS ON CERTAIN SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   No motorized or non-motorized devices shall be ridden on the following
sidewalks: Public Square, Columbus Street within one block west of the Public
Square and Washington Street within one block west of the Public Square. This
prohibition includes, but is not limited to, bicycles, skateboards, roller
blades, scooters and segways.
   (B)   Walking with said devices in the restricted area is permitted.
Individuals with mobility disabilities may continue to use manual/power
wheelchairs or scooters, and manually-powered mobility aids provided that the
user operates the device at a speed not to exceed pedestrian traffic.
(Prior Code, § 7.03.39) (Ord. 69-19, passed 11-11-2019)
§ 77.30 SIDEWALK VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The City Manager is hereby authorized and directed to supply code
enforcement officers, police officers and meter attendants with citation tags,
for the purpose of giving notice to persons violating provisions of §§
77.28 and
77.29.
   (B)   The notice may be given by delivering such tag to the violator, or by
affixing it to the vehicle by means of which the violation occurred. The
citation tags shall direct the violator to appear and to present such tag at a
designated office of the city at or before a date and hour specified thereon.
(Prior Code, § 7.03.40)
§ 77.31 TIRE SQUEALING.
   No person shall operate any motor vehicle in any way as to create
unnecessary noise or smoke from the tires of the motor vehicle coming in
contact with the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 7.03.41)
§ 77.32 SCHOOL BUS; UNLAWFUL TO PASS, WHEN.
   The driver of any motor vehicle, when approaching the front or rear of a
school bus that has come to a stop upon a highway, to receive or discharge any
child or children, shall stop such vehicle not less than ten feet from said
school bus and keep such vehicle stationary until all such children have
entered said bus or have alighted and reached the side of such highway.
(Prior Code, § 7.03.42)
§ 77.33 STOPPING AT SCENE OF ACCIDENT ON PUBLIC ROADWAY.
   (A)   (1)   In the case of a motor vehicle accident or collision with
persons or property on a public road or highway, the operator of the motor
vehicle, having knowledge of the accident or collision, immediately shall stop
the operator’s motor vehicle at the scene of the accident or collision. The
operator shall remain at the scene of the accident or collision until the
operator has given the operator’s name and address and, if the operator is not
the owner, the name and address of the owner of that motor vehicle, together
with the registered number of that motor vehicle, to all of the following:
         (a)   Any person injured in the accident or collision;
         (b)   The operator, occupant, owner or attendant of any motor vehicle
damaged in the accident or collision; and
         (c)   The police officer at the scene of the accident or collision.
      (2)   In the event an injured person is unable to comprehend and record
the information required to be given under division (A)(1) above, the other
operator involved in the accident or collision shall notify the nearest police
authority concerning the location of the accident or collision, and the
operator’s name, address and the registered number of the motor vehicle the
operator was operating. The operator shall remain at the scene of the accident
or collision until a police officer arrives, unless removed from the scene by
an emergency vehicle operated by a political subdivision or an ambulance.
      (3)   If the accident or collision is with an unoccupied or unattended
motor vehicle, the operator who collides with the motor vehicle shall securely
attach the information required to be given in this section, in writing, to a
conspicuous place in or on the unoccupied or unattended motor vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) above is guilty of failure to stop
after an accident. Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2) or (B)(3)
above, failure to stop after an accident is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the accident or collision results in serious physical harm to a
person, failure to stop after an accident is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the accident or collision results in the death of a person,
failure to stop after an accident is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (4)   (a)   In all cases, the court, in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a class five suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(5).
         (b)   No judge shall suspend the first six months of suspension of an
offender’s license, permit or privilege required by this division.
      (5)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility, as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. §
2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during or after
committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.02) (Prior Code, § 7.03.43)
§ 77.34 MOTOR VEHICLE ACCIDENT RESULTING IN DAMAGE TO REALTY.
   (A)   (1)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in
damage to real property, or personal property attached to real property,
legally upon or adjacent to a public road or highway immediately shall stop and
take reasonable steps to locate and notify the owner or person in charge of the
property of that fact, of the driver’s name and address, and of the
registration number of vehicle the driver is driving and, upon request and if
available, shall exhibit the driver’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license.
      (2)   If the owner or person in charge of the property cannot be located
after reasonable search, the driver of the vehicle involved in the accident
resulting in damage to the property, within 24 hours after accident, shall
forward to the Police Department of the municipality the same information
required to be given to the owner or person in control of the property and give
the location of the accident and a description of the damage insofar as it is
known.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) above is guilty of failure to stop
after an accident involving the property of others, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (2)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during or after
committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.03) (Prior Code, § 7.03.45)
§ 77.35 RECKLESS OPERATION; CONTROL COURSE AND SPEED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle:
   (A)   Without due regard for the safety and rights of pedestrians and
drivers and occupants of all other vehicles, and so as to endanger the life,
limb or property of any person while in the lawful use of the streets or
sidewalks or any other public or private property;
   (B)   Without exercising reasonable and ordinary control over such bicycle;
   (C)   In a weaving or zigzag course unless such irregular course is
necessary for safe operation in compliance with law;
   (D)   Without both hands upon the handle grips except when necessary to give
the required hand and arm signals; and
   (E)   At a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions
then existing.
(Prior Code, § 7.03.49)
§ 77.36 PARKING OF BICYCLE.
   No person shall park a bicycle upon a sidewalk in such a manner as to unduly
interfere with pedestrian traffic or upon a roadway so as to unduly interfere
with vehicular traffic.
(Prior Code, § 7.03.50)
§ 77.37 COMPLIANCE WITH TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES; RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Any person operating a bicycle shall;
   (A)   Obey the instructions of official traffic-control device applicable to
vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer;
   (B)   Before changing course, turning or stopping upon a roadway, exercise
due care that the movement can be made with reasonable safety and give the hand
and arm signals required;
   (C)   Yield the right-of-way to pedestrian and vehicular traffic to upon
roadway as lawfully required;
   (D)   Yield the right-of-way to a pedestrian upon a sidewalk; and
   (E)   Give a timely and audible signal before overtaking and passing a
pedestrian upon a roadway or sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 7.03.51)
CHAPTER 78: CITATION TAGS
Section
   
78.01   Citation tags
   
78.02   Use of fictitious name after citation
   
78.03   Defacing citation
   
78.04   Record of violations; abstract of record to Bureau of Motor Vehicles;
contents
§ 78.01 CITATION TAGS.
   The City Manager is authorized and directed to supply police officers and
meter attendants with citation tags, for the purpose of giving notice to
persons violating any provisions of the traffic code or of other laws or
ordinances affecting the use of highways. The notice may be given by delivering
such tag to the violator, or by affixing it to the vehicle by means of which
the violation occurred. The citation tags shall direct the violator to appear
and to present such tag at a designated office of the city at or before a date
and hour specified thereon. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
abridge the power of a police officer to arrest any violator and take him into
custody.
(Prior Code, § 7.08.01)
§ 78.02 USE OF FICTITIOUS NAME AFTER CITATION.
   No person charged with violating any of the provisions of the traffic code
shall present a citation tag or file a written plea of guilty with the Clerk of
the Court under a name other than his or her correct and true name.
(Prior Code, § 7.08.02)
§ 78.03 DEFACING CITATION.
   No person shall print or draw any obscene writing, words or pictures on
citations issued by authority of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7.08.03)
§ 78.04 RECORD OF VIOLATIONS; ABSTRACT OF RECORD TO BUREAU OF MOTOR VEHICLES;
CONTENTS.
   (A)   Every county court judge, mayor and clerk of a court of record shall
keep a full record of every case in which a person is charged with any
violation of R.C. §§ 4511.01 to 4511.78, 4511.99 and 4513.01 to 4513.37, or of
any other law or ordinance regulating the operation of vehicles, streetcars and
trackless trolleys on highways.
   (B)   Within seven days after the conviction or forfeiture of bail of a
person upon a charge of violating any of such sections or other law or
ordinance regulating the operation of vehicles, streetcars and trackless
trolleys on highways, said judge, mayor or clerk shall prepare and immediately
forward to the Department of Public Safety an abstract of the court record
covering the case in which said person was convicted or forfeited bail, which
abstract must be certified by the person required to prepare the same to be
true and correct.
   (C)   The abstract shall be made upon a form approved and furnished by the
Department and shall include the name and address of the party charged; the
number of the party’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license, the registration
number of the vehicle involved; the nature of the offense, the date of hearing,
the plea, the judgment, or whether bail forfeited; and the amount of the fine
or forfeiture.
   (D)   Every court of record shall also forward a like report to the
department upon the conviction of any person of manslaughter or other felony in
the commission of which a vehicle was used.
   (E)   The failure, refusal or neglect of such officer to comply with this
section constitutes misconduct in office and is ground for removal therefrom.
   (F)   The Department shall keep all abstracts received under this section at
its main office.
(R.C. § 4513.37) (Prior Code, § 7.08.04)
CHAPTER 79: PENALTIES
Section
   
79.99   Penalty
§ 79.99 PENALTY.
      (A)   (1)   A court that sentences an offender for a misdemeanor or minor
misdemeanor violation of any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, or of any
municipal ordinance that is substantially similar to a misdemeanor or minor
misdemeanor violation of a provision of the Ohio Revised Code, shall be guided
by the overriding purposes of misdemeanor sentencing. The overriding purposes
of misdemeanor sentencing are to protect the public from future crime by the
offender and others and to punish the offender. To achieve those purposes, the
sentencing court shall consider the impact of the offense upon the victim and
the need for changing the offender's behavior, rehabilitating the offender and
making restitution to the victim of the offense, the public or the victim and
the public.
      (2)   A sentence imposed for a misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor violation
of an Ohio Revised Code provision or for a violation of a municipal ordinance
that is subject to division (A)(1) above shall be reasonably calculated to
achieve the two overriding purposes of misdemeanor sentencing set forth in
division (A)(1) above, commensurate with and not demeaning to the seriousness
of the offender's conduct and its impact upon the victim, and consistent with
sentences imposed for similar offenses committed by similar offenders.
      (3)   A court that imposes a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor
or minor misdemeanor violation of an Ohio Revised Code provision or for a
violation of a municipal ordinance that is subject to division (A)(1) above
shall not base the sentence upon the race, ethnic background, gender or
religion of the offender.
      (4)   Divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) above shall not apply to any offense
that is disposed of by a traffic violations bureau of any court pursuant to
Traffic Rule 13 and shall not apply to any violation of any provision of the
Ohio Revised Code that is a minor misdemeanor and that is disposed of without a
court appearance. Divisions (A)(1) to (A)(3) above do not affect any penalties
established by a municipal corporation for a violation of its ordinances.
(R.C. § 2929.21)
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates §
70.06(B) is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree as defined in R.C. §
2929.21.
      (2)   Whoever violates §
70.09 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree as defined in R.C. §
2929.21.
      (3)   Whoever violates §§
74.002 to
74.007,
74.009 to
74.024,
74.026 to
74.027 and
74.029 to
74.032 is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a first offense; on a second offense
within one year after the first offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the fourth degree; on each subsequent offense within one year after the
first offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (4)   Whoever violates the weight provisions of §§
74.033 to
74.036 shall be fined:
         (a)   Twenty-five dollars for the first 2,000 pounds, or fraction
thereof, of overload, for overloads in excess of 2,000 pounds, but not in
excess of 5,000 pounds, such person shall be fined $25, and in addition
thereto, $1 per 100 pounds of overload;
         (b)   For overloads in excess of 5,000 pounds, but not in excess of
10,000 pounds, such persons shall be fined $25 and in addition thereto, $2 per
100 pounds of overload, or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both;
         (c)   For all overloads in excess of 10,000 pounds, such persons shall
be fined $25, and in addition thereto, $3 per 100 pounds of overload, or
imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both; or
         (d)   Whoever violates the weight provisions of vehicle and load
relating to gross load limits shall be fined not less than $100, provided that
no penalty prescribed in this section for those vehicles weighed by the axle
load shall be imposed on any vehicle combination if:
            1.   The overload on any axle does not exceed 1,000 pounds; and if;
            2.   The immediately preceding or following axle, excepting the
front axle of the vehicle combination, is under loaded by the same or a greater
amount. For purposes of this division (B)(4)(d)2. above, two axles on one
vehicle less than eight feet apart shall be considered as one axle.
      (5)   Whoever violates the provisions of §
74.074 for which no other penalty is provided, shall be fined:
         (a)   For violations of divisions (B)(1) through (B)(3) above:
            1.   For a first offense not more than $25;
            2.   For a second offense within one year thereafter not less than
$10 nor more than $100; imprisoned not more than ten days, or both; or
            3.   For a third or subsequent offense within one year after the
first offense, such persons shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than
$200, or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
         (b)   A violation of division (B)(5)(a) above shall be fined $30.
         (c)   A violation of this division (B)(5)(c) shall be fined by $20.
         (d)   Except as otherwise provided, whoever violates this division (B)
(5)(d) is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this division (B)(5)(d),
whoever violates this division (B)(5)(d) is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
         (e)   All fines collected for violations of division (B)(5) above
shall be forwarded to the State Treasurer for deposit as follows:
            1.   Eight percent shall be deposited into the seat belt education
fund, which is hereby created in the State Treasury, and shall be used by the
Department of Public Safety to establish a seat belt education program;
            2.   Eight percent shall be deposited into the elementary school
program fund, which is hereby created in the State Treasury, and shall be used
by the Department of Public Safety to establish and administer elementary
school programs that encourage seat safety belt use;
            3.   Two percent shall be deposited into the State Medical
Transportation Trust Fund created by R.C. § 4766.05;
            4.   Twenty-eight percent shall be deposited into the trauma and
emergency medical services fund, which is hereby created in the State Treasury,
and shall be used by the State Department of Public Safety for the
administration of the division of emergency medical services and the State
Board of Emergency Medical Services; and
            5.   Fifty-four percent shall be deposited into the trauma and
emergency medical services grant fund, which is hereby created in the State
Treasury, and shall be used by the State Board of Emergency Medical Services to
make grants, in accordance with R.C. § 4765.07 and rules the board adopts under
R.C. § 4765.11.
      (6)   Whoever violates §
74.038(A) shall be fined a follows:
         (a)   Whoever is a resident of this state shall be punished as
follows.
            1.   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(6)(a)2. below,
the offender is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
            2.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (B)(1) or (B)(2) above or of a municipal
ordinance that is substantially similar to either of those divisions, the
offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
         (b)   Whoever is not a resident of this state, and fails to prove by a
preponderance of the evidence that the offender’s use or non use of a child
restraint system was in accordance with the law of the state of which the
offender is a resident, is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a first offense; on
a second or subsequent offense, that person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
         (c)   All fines imposed pursuant to division (B)(7) below shall be
forwarded to the Treasurer of the State for deposit in the “child highway
safety fund” created by the Ohio Revised Code.
      (7)   Whoever violates §
72.002, is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within on year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (8)   Whoever violates §§
77.10 or
77.11 and
77.12 to
77.14 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree as defined in
R.C. § 2929.21.
      (9)   Whoever violates §
77.15 is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a first offense and if previously
convicted or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance within the past three years, the
offense is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (10)   Whoever violates §
77.15 with respect to R.C. § 4510.16, driving under financial responsibility
law suspension or cancellation, is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor and if
previously convicted or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this
section or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance within the past three
years, the offense is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (11)   Whoever violates §
77.15 who has been notified with respect to R.C. § 3123.54, notice to obligor
and registrar (by a child support enforcement agency), is guilty of an
unclassified misdemeanor and if previously convicted or pleaded guilty to three
or more violations of this section or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance within the past three years, the offense is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (12)   Whoever violates §§
77.19 to
77.20 is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a first offense and fourth degree
misdemeanor on every subsequent offense.
      (13)   Whoever violates the provisions of §§
77.28 and
77.29 shall be fined $20 if paid within the first 48 hour following time of
citation and $30 if paid after the first 48 hours following the time of
citation.
      (14)   Whoever violates §§
77.30 and
77.34 shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than six
months, or both.
      (15)   Except as otherwise provided, a violation of §
77.01 is a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violation of any
provision of §
77.01, R.C. § 4511.21 or of any provision of a municipal ordinance that is
substantially similar to any provision of this section, a misdemeanor or the
fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of any
provision of §
77.01, R.C. § 4511.21, or any provision of a municipal ordinance that is
substantially similar to any provision of this section, misdemeanor of the
third degree. When any person is found guilty of a first offense for a
violation of §
77.01 upon a finding that he operated a motor vehicle faster than 35 mph in a
business district of a municipal corporation, or faster than 50 mph in other
portions, or faster than 35 mph while passing through a school zone during
recess or while children are going to or leaving school during the opening or
closing hours, such person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If
the offender operated a motor vehicle in a construction zone where a sign was
then posted in accordance with R.C. § 4511.98, the court, in addition to all
other penalties provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a fine of two
times the usual amount imposed for the violation.
      (16)   Except otherwise provided, whoever violates any provision in §§
72.006 to
72.025,
72.028 to
72.029,
72.046 to
72.049,
72.049 to
72.052,
72.057 to
72.058,
72.075 to
72.078,
72.096 to
72.098,
72.111,
72.114,
72.136 to
72.136,
Chapter 80 Schedule III and
Chapter 80 Schedule V is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to
one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (17)   Whoever violates §
72.050 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense. On a
second offense within one year after the first offense, the person is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the third degree, and on each subsequent offense within one
year after the first offense; the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
second degree.
      (18)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a
violation of §§
72.115,
72.117 and
72.118 the trial judge may, in addition to, or independent of, all other
penalties provided by law, suspend for any period of time not §
76.07 is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the
offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle
or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the third degree.
      (19)   Whoever violates any provision of §
76.08 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree as defined
in the state exceeding three years, or revoke the license of any person,
partnership, association or corporation, issued under R.C. § 4511.763.
      (20)   Whoever parks in violation of §§
76.01 to
76.38, not otherwise covered by another section of §
79.99, shall be deemed guilty of a minor misdemeanor. In lieu of a court
appearance, an administrative fine of $20 may be paid within the first 48 hours
and $30 if paid after the first 48 hours. Every consecutive hour of violation
shall be deemed a complete and separate offense.
      (21)   Except otherwise provided, whoever violated any provision in §§
76.02 or
76.04 or R.C. § 2929.21 and shall be fined not more than $250, or imprisoned
not more than 30 days, or both.
      (22)   (a)   Any person, firm or corporation violating §
76.12(B) shall be fined not less than $250 nor more than $500. In lieu of court
appearance, an administrative fine of $100 may be paid within the first 48
hours following the time of citation and an administrative fine of $150 if paid
after the first 48 hours following the time of citation. Whoever violates §
76.12(D) shall be issued a warning unless they have been previously convicted
of a violation of §
76.12(D), or similar state or municipal ordinance, at which point the
individual shall be fine of $25 for each parking location that is not properly
marked or whose markings are not properly maintained.
         (b)   An offender who violates §
76.12(B) shall be fined not more than $100 if the offender, prior to
sentencing, proves either of the following to the satisfaction of the court:
            1.   At the time of the violation of §
76.12(B), the offender or the person for whose transport the motor vehicle was
being operated has been issued a removable windshield placard that then was
valid or special license plates that then were valid but the offender or the
person neglected to display the placard or license plates as described in §
76.12(B).
            2.   At the time of the violation of §
76.12(B), the offender or the person for whose transport the motor vehicle was
being operated had been issued a parking card that then was valid or special
handicapped license plates that then were valid but the offender or the person
neglected to display the card or license plates as described in §
76.12(B).
      (23)   Whoever violates §
76.20 shall pay a fine of $5 if paid within the first 48 hours and $10 if paid
after the first 48 hours. Every consecutive hour of violation of §
76.20 after the initial expiration of metered time shall be deemed a complete
and separate offense.
      (24)   Whoever violates §
76.22(B) or (C), (two-hour limit) shall pay a fine of $10 if paid within the
first 24 hours and $20 if paid after the first 48 hours. Every consecutive hour
of violation of §
76.22(B) after the expiration of the initial two-hour limit shall be deemed a
complete and separate offense.
      (25)   Whoever violated §§
76.23 or
76.24 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (26)   Whoever violates §
76.27 shall pay a fine of $5 if paid within the first 48 hours, and $10 if paid
after the first 48 hours.
      (27)   Whoever violates §§
76.29 to
76.32 shall pay a fine of not more than $100 for the first offense and not more
than $500 for each subsequent offense.
      (28)   Whoever violates §§
72.110,
72.114,
72.115,
72.116,
72.117 or
72.118 is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a first offense; on a second
offense, such person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (29)   Whoever violates §§
78.01 to
78.03 is guilty of a first degree misdemeanor.
      (30)   Whoever violates any provision of Title VII of the City Code, for
which no penalty is otherwise provided, is guilty of a minor misdemeanor as
defined in R.C. § 2929.21, punishable by a fine not to exceed $150.
      (31)   Terms of imprisonment for misdemeanors shall be imposed as
follows:
         (a)   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than six months;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor of the second degree not more than 90 days;
         (c)   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than 60 days;
and
         (d)   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than 30 days;
      (32)   Fines for misdemeanors shall be imposed as follows:
         (a)   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than $1,000;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than $750;
         (c)   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than $500; and
         (d)   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than $250.
      (33)   Whoever is convicted of or pleads guilty to a minor misdemeanor
shall be fined not more than $150.
(Prior Code, § 7.09.99)
CHAPTER 80: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   One-way streets
      
II.   Two-way streets
      
III.   Speed limits
      
IV.   Parking restrictions
      
V.   Turning restrictions
      
VI.   Truck routes
      
VII.   Loading zones
      
VIII.   Recreational vehicles
SCHEDULE I. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   The following are the designated one-way streets of the city:
Street #1 Street #2
Street #1                            Street #2
Alley that runs from Adams Street to From Adams heading north to Cross Street
Cross Street
Cables alley                         From Washington to Columbus heading south
City building alley                  From Canal to Fayette heading north
Daugherty Drive                      From Washington to Franklin heading north
Fairview                             From Verity to Grover heading south
First alley east of Daugherty Drive  From Canal to Franklin heading north
Harper                               From Canal to Jackson heading south
Jefferson                            From East Franklin to East Washington
                                     heading south
Monroe                               From Fayette to Canal heading south
North Lane of High                   From Third to Burr Oak Boulevard heading
                                     west
Pleasantview                         From Fort to Scott heading northeast
Presbyterian Church alley            From Columbus to Washington heading north
Scott                                From Pleasantview to Fourth heading
                                     southwest
South Lane of High                   From Third to Burr Oak Boulevard heading
                                     east
Third                                From Chestnut Canal heading south
Watkins                              From Jackson to HVSR railroad heading
                                     south
 
(Prior Code, § 7.04.20)
SCHEDULE II. TWO-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   Traffic on Monroe Street is regulated to be two-way traffic between
Canal Street and Fayette Street in the city.
   (B)   The parking is hereby restricted upon the east side of Monroe Street
between Canal Street and Fayette Street in the city.
   (C)   Any portion of any ordinances in conflict with this schedule is hereby
repealed.
(Prior Code, § 7.04.21) (Ord. 20-86)
SCHEDULE III. SPEED LIMITS.
   The speed limit for vehicular traffic on Watkins Street South of Canal
Street shall be 25 mph.
(Prior Code, § 7.04.69)
SCHEDULE IV. PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Prohibited parking. Parking of motor vehicles in the following areas
is prohibited:
Street(s) Direction
Street(s)                                      Direction
Adams        Between Franklin Street and Cross On the west side
             Street
Canal                                         Entire north side and entire
                                               south side
Clinton      Between Fort Street and Oak       On the south side
             Street
East Grover  Between Fort Street and Oak       On the south side
             Street
Franklin     Between Adams Street and          On the north side
             Daugherty Drive
Franklin     Between Fort Street and the west  On the south side
             end of the Kroger lot
Fulton       From Canal Street to the HVSR      
             railroad tracks on both sides
Jefferson    Between Washington Street and     On the west side
             Fayette Street
Kontner      Between Franklin Street and Mill  On the west side
             Street
Madison      From the east side of Canal       On the east side
             Street to the north city limits
Mill                                          Entire south side
Monroe       Between Fayette Street and        On the west side
             Columbus Street
Myers        From Canal Street at western      In an easterly direction north
             intersection for 66 feet          side
Myers        From Canal Street at western      In an easterly direction on the
             intersection for 77 feet          south side
Pleasantview Between Fort Street and Scott     On the north side
             Street
Scott        Between Fort Street and           On the south side
             Pleasantview Street
Short                                         Entire south side
Watkins      South Canal                       On the east side of Watkins
 
(Prior Code, § 7.05.35)
   (B)   Loading zones.
      (1)   The following shall be the metered zones of the municipality:
 
Street            Side(s)                      Direction
                                               From Presbyterian Alley to
Columbus Street   Both sides                   Cables Alley and then extended
                                               on the north side of Columbus
                                               Street to Bell Alley
Fort Street       On the east side only        From Washington Street to
                                               Franklin Street
Fulton Street     Both sides                   From Columbus Street to Canal
                                               Street
Rocky Boot Way    On the east side             Only from Canal Street to
                                               Columbus Street
                                               From Presbyterian Alley to Bell
Washington Street Both sides (north and south) Telephone Alley, hereafter known
                                               as Bell Alley
 
      (2)   The metered zones shall operate between the hours of 8:00 a.m. to
5:00 p.m. each day except Sundays and holidays.
      (3)   From time to time hereafter as traffic conditions require, the City
Manager shall establish parking meter zones subject to this chapter in such
other streets as are designated by City Council for the location of such zones.
      (4)   In parking meter zones, the City Manager shall cause parking meters
to be installed and parking meter spaces to be designated hereinafter provided,
and shall fix a time limitation for legal parking in such zones, and the hours
during the day or night when parking meters shall be used and when the time
limitation shall be effective, in compliance with provisions of this chapter.
He or she shall also indicate the time limitation by designating the same on
the parking meters or by appropriate signs posted in proximity to the meters in
the zones, and shall also designate the excluded days as set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 7.05.37)
SCHEDULE V. TURNING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   All traffic entering Columbus Street from the drive-in facility of the
First National Bank shall turn right; left turns are prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 7.04.67)
   (B)   All traffic entering Washington Street from the Fruth Parking lot
shall turn right; left turns are prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 7.04.68)
SCHEDULE VI. TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   Signs shall be posted indicating “no through trucks-gross weight five
tons” or words of similar import to apprise drivers of the limitations imposed
by this section. No driver shall disobey the instruction indicated on any such
sign.
   (B)   Violation of any of the limitations, terms or conditions of the permit
granted by the Director shall cause immediate revocation or suspension of such
permit, and denial of request for any future permit. Such violation shall also
subject the violator to the penalty prescribed by §
79.99.
   (C)   The following streets are declared additional truck routes:
Street #1 Street #2
Street #1      Street #2
Adams          From Canal to termination
Columbus       From Canal to Jefferson
Fayette        From Jefferson to Rocky Boot Way
Fort           From Washington to Pleasantview
Franklin       From Jefferson to Nelsonville Medical and Emergency Services
Fulton         From Columbus to Canal
Grosvenor      From Poplar to Canal
Jackson        From Watkins to Termination
Jefferson      From Franklin to Canal
Myers          From Canal to Watkins
Pleasantview   From Fort to North Corporation Limit
Poplar         From Fourth to Jefferson
Rocky Boot Way From Columbus to Canal
Washington     From Canal to Jefferson
Watkins        From Canal to Termination
 
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the drivers of all such vehicles exceeding a
gross weight of five tons when entering the municipality upon a street other
than a state or federal route, to immediately proceed, by the shortest way
possible, to nearest state or federal route or other marked truck route,
leading in the direction in which such vehicle is proceeding.
   (E)   All streets and highways leading into the municipality shall be
properly posted warning operators of vehicles exceeding such weights that they
must follow state and federal routes, temporary or permanent, and other marked
routes.
(Prior Code, § 7.02.46)
SCHEDULE VII. LOADING ZONES.
   (A)   The following shall be the loading zones of the municipality:
 
Street   Direction Street                             Distance
Fayette  East      Rocky Boot Way                     80 feet on the south side
Chestnut East      Shriver’s Drug Store parking lot 50 feet on the south side
                   entrance
 
   (B)   The loading zones of the municipality shall operate from the hours of
8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
   (C)   From time to time hereafter as traffic conditions require, the City
Manager shall establish loading zones subject to this chapter in such other
streets and areas as are designated by City Council for the location of such
zones.
   (D)   In loading zones, the City Manager shall cause the street curbs to be
painted a highway yellow and the ends of such zones shall be marked by signs
stating “No Parking Loading Zone”. The City Manager shall also indicate the
limitations, by designating the same on the signs.
(Prior Code, § 7.05.34)
SCHEDULE VIII. RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   This schedule will be in effect until December 31, 2022, during the
time the Wayne National Forrest trails are open. The city authorizes the use of
all-terrain vehicles (ATVs) on certain city streets; the following streets are
declared to be ATV friendly:
      (1)   Hocking Parkway from Canal Street to SR 691;
      (2)   Canal Street from 691 to John Lloyd Evans Drive;
      (3)   John Lloyd Evans Drive to Dorr Run Road;
      (4)   Hocking Parkway from Canal Street to SR 691;
      (5)   Riverside Drive from Hocking Parkway to Wolfe Bennett Road; and
      (6)   Burr Oak Boulevard to Sylvania Avenue to Woodlane Drive.
   (B)   Licensed ATVs, per previous city ordinance, will still be allowed on
all streets; non-licensed ATVs will be restricted to above listed streets.
   (C)   Non-licensed ATVs permitted to be on selected roadways from sunrise to
sundown, seven days per week, unless a special event is organized with city
approval, then hours can be extended.
   (D)   The city authorizes the use of ATVs on said city streets in accordance
with the following regulations:
      (1)   All traffic laws apply, vehicles must be insured, ridden by
licensed drivers 18 and older;
      (2)   All other state laws will apply;
      (3)   ATVs must be equipped with one rear view mirror;
      (4)   If a vehicle is not equipped with turn signals, ATV operators must
use hand signals per R.C. § 4511.40;
      (5)   Vehicles must be equipped with a working rear brake light;
      (6)   ATV exhaust noise must meet the decibel level set forth in R.C. §
4519.20;
      (7)   Vehicles must be equipped with working horn; and
      (8)   Vehicles must not create excessive mud or dirt on city streets.
(Ord. 44-21, passed 7-12-2021)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   NUISANCES
      
92.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
94.   PARADES AND SPECIAL EVENTS
      
95.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
96.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
97.   ALARM SYSTEMS
      
98.   IDENTITY THEFT
      
99.   SHOPPING CARTS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Animals at large
   
90.02   Cruelty to animals
   
90.03   Birds
   
90.04   Barking or howling dog
   
90.05   Dog regulations
   
90.06   Dogs; rabies control
   
90.07   Harboring animals deemed a nuisance, when
   
90.08   Poisonous substances
   
90.09   Abandoning animals
   
90.10   Animals, livestock, fowl, bees; control
   
90.11   Cats
Reptiles
   
90.25   Definition
   
90.26   Ownership of crocodilians
   
90.27   Venomous species
   
90.28   Registration
   
90.29   General requirements
   
90.30   Registration; pet shops
   
90.31   Registration; others
   
90.32   Exceptions
   
90.33   Registration; changes in harboring address
   
90.34   Lost or impounded reptiles
   
90.35   Immediate notification
   
90.36   Violations
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 ANIMALS AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person, being the owner of any animal or fowl, or harboring or
having charge or control of the same, shall permit such animal or fowl to run
at large in any street, lane, alley, market space or public ground, or shall
permit such animal or fowl to go upon or enter any private yard, lot or
enclosure, without consent of the owner of such yard, lot or enclosure.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, it shall be unlawful for any owner,
harborer or person in charge of any dog to take or allow said dog to go onto
public property or in a public place without being on a leash.
   (C)   No owner, harborer or person having charge of any dog, other than a
dog used by a handicapped person, shall take or allow said dog to go onto the
public grounds constituting the Aquatic Center, Nelson’s Commons Park and
Nelsonville Honor Roll.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.01) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   No person shall overwork, overdrive, overload or drive when overloaded, or
shall torture, torment, cruelly beat, mutilate or underfeed an animal, or shall
permit any such animal to be without proper protection from the weather.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.02) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 BIRDS.
   No person shall kill or injure any wild bird, or shall throw, fire or shoot
a bullet, stone, arrow or other missile, at such bird, or shall break, tear
down or destroy any bird’s nest or the eggs or other contents of such nest; or
shall catch or capture any wild bird, or set traps, or spread nets or snares,
with intent to catch or capture the same, or shall follow or pursue the same,
with intent to catch or injure the bird.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.03) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 BARKING OR HOWLING DOG.
   No person shall harbor or keep a dog, which by loud and frequent or habitual
barking, howling or yelping, shall cause annoyance or disturbance to the
neighborhood.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.04) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 DOG REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall allow a dog under his or her control to be upon public
property or upon property of another, absent the consent of the owner or
occupant of such property, without some device for the removal and the
containment of the dog’s feces; nor shall any person fail to remove any feces
deposited by any dog under his or her control on public or private property.
This section shall not apply to guide dogs under the control of a blind person.
   (B)   No person shall place, deposit or permit to be deposited any dog feces
in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within this city or in
any area under the jurisdiction of this city.
   (C)   No owner, keeper or harborer of any dog shall permit such dog to go
beyond the premises of such owner, keeper or harborer unless the dog is
securely on a leash or under the control of some person, or is on a conveyance
for travel, such as an automobile or a truck, or is confined to a travel crate
or carrying case, so as to prevent the dog from being or creating a nuisance as
defined herein. No owner, keeper or harborer of any dog shall permit the dog to
run at large within the limits of this city. As used herein, OWNER, KEEPER or
HARBORER means a person who is the owner, provides shelter for or cares for a
dog or otherwise has control of or is responsible for such dog.
   (D)   No person shall keep or harbor any dog in the city so as to create
offensive odors, excessive noise or unsanitary conditions which are a menace to
the health, comfort or safety of the public, or otherwise permit the commission
or existence of a NUISANCE as hereinafter defined.
   (E)   NUISANCE, as used herein, means any dog which scratches, digs or
defecates upon any lawn, tree, shrub, plant, sidewalk, building, city park,
public playground, school ground or private property other than the property of
the owner, keeper or harborer of such dog, without the permission of the owner
of such property. Where the owner, keeper or harborer of such dog immediately
removed all feces deposited by such dog and disposes of same in a sanitary
manner, such nuisance shall be considered abated.
   (F)   NUISANCE, as used herein, shall further include any dog, which by
biting or frequent and/or habitual barking, howling or yelping, or in any way
or manner injures or disturbs the quiet of the community, or which disturbs or
endangers the comfort, peace or health of any person or persons.
   (G)   No owner, keeper or harborer of any dog shall continue to keep or
harbor within this city any dog which is or creates a nuisance as defined
herein, unless such dog is confined or otherwise kept under strict control as
to abate a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.05) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 DOGS; RABIES CONTROL.
   Whenever the City Manager or the Board of Health shall deem it necessary for
the protection of the public, he or she or it shall issue an order prohibiting,
for a certain time therein specified, any dog from being at large in any public
street or place, unless muzzled and on a leash, so as effectually to prevent it
from biting any person or animal. Such order shall be posted in three or more
conspicuous places in the city, for the time that the City Manager shall deem
necessary, and any dog found at large during the existence of such quarantine
order shall be impounded and may be destroyed by city authority without notice
of the owner. Whenever it is deemed necessary for the aforesaid purpose, the
City Manager or Board may extend the time of expiration of such order by
posting notice in the same manner as above set forth, of the period of
extension.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.06) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 HARBORING ANIMALS DEEMED A NUISANCE, WHEN.
   (A)   No person shall permit any animal or fowl to be kept in any yard, pen,
sty, stationary or moving vehicle, or in any other place which is unclean,
unsanitary or productive of offensive odors.
   (B)   No person shall permit or suffer any animal or fowl harbored by him or
her to become noisy so as to cause disturbance of the peace and quiet of the
neighborhood.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.07) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 POISONOUS SUBSTANCES.
   No person shall place or deposit any poisoned or poisonous substance
anywhere within the city with intent to poison any animal.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.08) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 ABANDONING ANIMALS.
   No person who owns or harbors an animal shall abandon that animal within the
city.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.09) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 ANIMALS, LIVESTOCK, FOWL, BEES; CONTROL.
   (A)   No person being the owner of or having charge of horses, mules,
cattle, swine, sheep, geese, ducks, turkeys, chickens or other fowl or animals
shall permit such animal or fowl to become a nuisance to the city or the
immediate adjoining neighbors of any person by allowing said animals or fowl,
to run at large on any public streets and upon any unenclosed lands within the
corporate limits of the city, to suffer, or cause offensive odors, discomfort
or anxiety to a resident of the city.
   (B)   No person shall erect, use or maintain any building, structure or
place for the exercise of any trade, employment, business or for the keeping or
feeding of any animal or to occupy any dwelling, which, by occasioning noxious
smells, exhalation or noise some or offensive smells, becomes injurious to the
health, comfort or property of individuals or the public, or causes or suffers
any offal, filth or noise some substance to be collected or remain in places to
the damage or prejudice of others or to the public.
   (C)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for any person to keep or harbor bees
which cause annoyance to other persons or damage to the property of others.
   (D)   Upon complaint being made, the City Manager is hereby authorized and
directed to notify the owner or keeper of such bees to abate such nuisance and
remove hives or other contrivances where such bees are kept or harbored, within
ten days after being notified thereof.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.10) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11 CATS.
   (A)   No person, being the owner, harborer or having charge or control of a
cat, shall permit such cat to run at large in any street, lane, alley, market
space or public ground, or shall permit such cat to go upon or enter any
private yard, lot or enclosure without the consent of the owner of such yard,
lot or enclosure.
   (B)   No person, being the owner, harborer or having charge or control of a
cat, shall permit such cat to cause physical harm to any person. For purposes
of this section, PHYSICAL HARM shall mean any injury or other physiological
impairment regardless of its gravity or duration, provided that no person
engaged in illegal activity shall be protected under this section. All people,
whether the owner, harborer or person having charge or control of a cat, shall
ensure that such cat has been vaccinated against rabies, and shall produce
evidence of such rabies vaccination upon request.
   (C)   Whosoever violates this section shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a
minor misdemeanor as defined in R.C. § 2929.28.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.12) Penalty, see §
90.99
REPTILES
§ 90.25 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   REPTILE. Snakes of any length, turtles and lizards.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.11.01)
§ 90.26 OWNERSHIP OF CROCODILIANS.
   Ownership of any crocodilians by a private resident is strictly prohibited.
Any crocodilians shall be immediately turned in to Hocking College for proper
care and/or removal.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.11.01) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.27 VENOMOUS SPECIES.
   No venomous species, even if devenomized, shall be kept within the city
without a valid scientific/educational collectors permit for research and/or
education issued by the state. Permitted venomous species will also be
registered regardless of size.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.11.02) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.28 REGISTRATION.
   Owners of reptiles shall provide a photograph and description of each
reptile in their possession. Additional required information shall include the
owner’s name and species of each reptile registered. Registration shall take
place at the Nature Center, Hocking College, Nelsonville, Ohio 45764; phone
number: (740) 753-3591.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.11.03)
§ 90.29 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Reptiles shall be kept in enclosures of an appropriate size that
precludes escape.
   (B)   Reptiles shall be confined to the owner’s property and not be taken
out into the public. Educational forums and/or other educational public
displays shall be allowed.
   (C)   Reptiles shall not be kept under any conditions considered,
unsanitary, unhealthy or dangerous for animals or people.
   (D)   Failure to register reptiles will be considered as harboring a
potentially dangerous animal.
   (E)   Reptiles shall be handled in a safe and careful manner by a
responsible party.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.11.04) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.30 REGISTRATION; PET SHOPS.
   (A)   Any pet shop intending to harbor, sell, trade or in any way distribute
reptiles within the city must register with the Hocking College Department of
Natural Resources in writing of such intention before any reptile may be
harbored, sold, traded or distributed.
   (B)   Any pet shop harboring, selling, trading or in any way distributing
reptiles within the city shall make available for inspection by the Hocking
College Department of Natural Resources an inventory of the number and type of
reptiles received; the number and type distributed by sale, trade, death or in
any other manner; and the number and type on hand.
   (C)   Whenever any pet shop sells, trades or in any way distributes an
exotic snake (not native to the United States) within the city, it shall
complete a form provided by Hocking College Department of Natural Resources
consisting of the type of exotic snake, the person taking possession of the
snake and the address where the snake will be harbored. There will be no fee
for said registration.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.11.05) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.31 REGISTRATION; OTHERS.
   (A)   Any person harboring an exotic snake within the city, who acquired the
snake from any source other than a registered pet shop, must register the snake
with the Hocking College Department of Natural Resources.
   (B)   Such registration shall consist of the name of the owner and the
address where the snake will be harbored. There will be no fee for said
registration.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.11.06) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.32 EXCEPTIONS.
   This section shall not apply to properly certified educational institutions
and wildlife management officials of the state.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.11.07)
§ 90.33 REGISTRATION; CHANGES IN HARBORING ADDRESS.
   It shall be the responsibility of each owner of an exotic snake to inform
the Hocking College Department of Natural Resources whenever the address at
which a snake or reptile being harbored changes for any reason. These reasons
include, but are not limited to, death, loss, sale, transfer or if the owner of
the snake moves.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.11.08)
§ 90.34 LOST OR IMPOUNDED REPTILES.
   Lost reptiles shall be impounded and released to the registered owner or
properly disposed of; provided, however, that any non-poisonous species native
to the state shall be presumed wild and released to a natural habitat.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.11.09)
§ 90.35 IMMEDIATE NOTIFICATION.
   Any time a reptile defined as above escapes the local City Police
Department, the Hocking College Department of Natural Resources shall be
notified immediately.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.11.10)
§ 90.36 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any police office or code enforcement officer may issue a citation for
violation of this section.
   (B)   First time offenders shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
   (C)   Subsequent offenses shall be guilty of a fourth degree misdemeanor.
   (D)   Fines may be imposed for any of the above until the situation is
remedied.
   (E)   Violations not corrected within 72 hours shall constitute a separate
violation.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.11.10)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.30 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   A violation of §
90.02 shall be a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   A violation of §§
90.01,
90.03,
90.04,
90.06,
90.07,
90.08,
90.09 or
90.10 shall be a minor misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.99)
   (C)   Each violation of §
90.05 shall result in the offender being fined up to $100 per violation.
(Prior Code, § 9.12.05)
CHAPTER 91: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Trees, grass, weeds and litter
   
91.02   Abandonment in places accessible to children
   
91.03   Rubbish and objectionable materials
   
91.04   Fences: barbed wire and electric
   
91.05   Streets and sidewalks: repair, obstruction
   
91.06   Used building materials, unlicensed motor vehicles refuse and rubbish
   
91.07   Curfew of minors
   
91.08   Posting of advertising
   
91.09   Fires and fire inspection
   
91.10   Depositing poison
   
91.11   Deposit of dead animals, offal and the like upon land or water
   
91.12   Littering public ways
   
91.13   Unvented heaters
   
91.14   Excessive noise and music
   
91.15   Exterior maintenance of property and premises conditions
Nuisance Structures
   
91.30   Definitions
   
91.31   Condemnation
   
91.32   Closing of vacant structures
   
91.33   Notice and orders
   
91.34   Placarding
   
91.35   Reoccupancy of the building
   
91.36   Demolition of the building
   
91.37   Appeals to condemnation of placarding
   
91.38   Fire damaged structures; removal or repair fund
   
91.39   Demolition permit required
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 TREES, GRASS, WEEDS AND LITTER.
   (A)   It is hereby determined that noxious weeds, vines or grasses growing a
height of eight inches or higher upon property, premises, lots or parcels
within the city after the first day of April of each year are a public nuisance
and that at all times the accumulation and deposition of garbage, refuse,
rubbish, special rubbish and litter on public or private lands, dead or dying
trees, broken or fallen branches and plants or shrubbery blocking visibility or
encumbering access, constitute a public health and safety hazard and public
nuisance. Annual notice of such may be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the county stating the violation, remedies, costs and penalties
effective April 1 through October 31 for weeds, vines and/or grass and at any
time for garbage, refuse, rubbish, special rubbish, litter, trees, branches and
shrubbery.
      (1)   Upon finding by the City Manager, or his or her designee, that
noxious and/or invasive weeds, vines or grasses are growing in excess of eight
inches in height or are about to spread or mature seeds, the City Manager, or
designee, shall cause written or verbal notice to be served on the owner,
lessee, agent, occupant, tenant or other person, firm, corporation or entity
capable of holding title and having charge of such land, notifying them that
said noxious and/or invasive weeds, vines or grasses are growing on such lands
that they must be cut, destroyed or properly removed from the premises within
five days after the service of such notice. These regulations shall include
lands in platted subdivisions and un-platted areas of the city extending from
the street curb line or the edge of the street pavement to the property line
and to the middle of an unimproved platted alley or street. If such owner,
other person or entity having charge of such lands is a nonresident whose
address is known, such notice may be sent to his or her address by certified
mail, return receipt requested, or served personally by the City Manager or
designee. If their address is unknown, it is sufficient to publish the notice
once in a newspaper of general circulation in the county. If a notice has been
served in accordance with this section and it is determined that a subsequent
violation has occurred, the city may proceed with the remedy set forth in
division (E) below without further notice to the owner so long as the original
certified notice included such reference. For purposes of this section, NOXIOUS
WEEDS shall be defined as those identified in R.C. § 907.10(B)(2), listed in
O.A.C. § 901:5-37-01 or any other vegetation of rank growth, including, but not
limited to, ivy, poison ivy, virginia creeper, Japanese knotweed and bamboo.
      (2)   Upon finding by the City Manager or his or her designee that
garbage, refuse, rubbish, special rubbish, litter, trees, branches or shrubbery
have been placed on lands within the city in excess of seven days constituting
a detriment to public health, a written notice shall be served in accordance
with division (A) above upon the owner, lessee, agent, occupant, tenant or
other person, firm, corporation or entity capable of holding title having
charge of the littered land. The notice shall state that the garbage, refuse,
rubbish, special rubbish, litter, trees, branches or shrubbery shall be
collected and removed within 15 days after service of the notice. LITTER shall
be defined as in R.C. § 731.51 and REFUSE, RUBBISH or SPECIAL RUBBISH as in §
53.02. Compliance for collection, storage and disposal of any items defined in
Chapter 53 may also be addressed in accordance with §§
53.03(C) and
53.12, disposal required within seven days.
      (3)   Upon finding by the City Manager or his or her designee that trees,
limbs, plants or shrubbery are obstructing the view of vehicular traffic on
public streets, alleys or grounds; are obstructing pedestrian travel on public
sidewalks; are obstructing light from a public street lamp; are so dead,
decayed or broken as to pose a threat to life or property or where trees or
limbs have already fallen; and are causing a public nuisance, a written notice
shall be served in accordance with division (A) above upon the owner, lessee,
agent, occupant, tenant or other person, firm, corporation or entity capable of
holding title having charge of the land. The notice shall state that the trees,
plants or shrubbery shall be cut, trimmed, pruned and removed within 15 days
after service of the notice.
   (B)   The City Manager, code enforcement official, police officer or
designated agent may make service and return of the notice provided for in this
section.
   (C)   If the person or entity having charge of the lands herein described
fails to comply with such notice, the City Manager, or designee, shall cause
said noxious weeds, vines or grasses to be cut and destroyed; garbage, refuse,
rubbish, special rubbish, litter, trees, branches and shrubbery litter
collected and removed from the premises; and/or trees, plants or shrubbery cut,
trimmed, pruned and removed. The expenses so incurred shall be approved by the
City Manager and paid out of the City Treasury.
   (D)   When the cost approved by the City Manager plus administrative fees of
20% or $100, whichever is less, or a cost determined by separate City Council
ordinance, is sent to the owner by first class mail and not paid within 30
days, the City Manager shall make written return to the County Auditor of his
or her action with a statement of the charges for the services, the amount paid
for the performance of such labor, the fees of the agents who made the service
with the request and any other necessary expenses reasonably incurred to
administer this section, that such amounts be entered upon the tax duplicate
and constitute a lien upon such land from and after the date of the entry and
be collected as other taxes and be returned to the General Fund of the city
according to R.C. §§ 731.54 and 715.261.
   (E)   In addition to recovery of costs in accordance with division (D)
above, whosoever violates provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of
a minor misdemeanor and fined as provided by R.C. § 2929.28. Each day’s
violation shall constitute a separate offense. Any person initially convicted
of a first offense and found guilty of a second and subsequent offense in the
same year shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth and escalating
degree for each additional offense.
(Prior Code, § 9.14.01)
§ 91.02 ABANDONMENT IN PLACES ACCESSIBLE TO CHILDREN.
   (A)   No person shall leave or permit to remain outside of any dwelling,
building or other structure, or within any unoccupied or abandoned building,
dwelling or other structure under his or her control, in a place accessible to
children, any abandoned, unattended or discarded icebox, refrigerator or other
container which has an air-tight door or lid, snaplock or other locking device
with may not be released from the inside, without first removing said door or
lid, snaplock or other locking device from said icebox, refrigerator or
container.
   (B)   Whosoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor, and
if the offender has previously been convicted of this section, the offender
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (C)   Each day this section is violated shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 9.14.02) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 RUBBISH AND OBJECTIONABLE MATERIALS.
   (A)   No person shall deposit or permit to be deposited any garbage or
refuse matter which may become offensive, noxious or dangerous to the public
health, on his or her own premises or any premises under his or her control, or
deposit such garbage or refuse matter in any back lot, public ground or vacant
lot, park, alley, street or areaway, or in any other place within the city,
except as is otherwise provided by law.
   (B)   No person is to burn or mix any substance within the corporate limits
of the city so as to create an unusual volume of smoke, gas, dust or other
noxious odors.
   (C)   No person shall haul or transport, or cause to be hauled or
transported, over or through any street any gravel, stone, sand, dirt, offal,
manure, rubbish, lime or other loose materials or substances in any conveyance
which is not so constructed as to being conveyed from dropping, sifting through
or in any other manner being strewn or deposited on any such streets.
   (D)   Whosoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor, and,
if the offender has previously been convicted of this section, the offender
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (E)   Each day this section is violated shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 9.14.03) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 FENCES: BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRIC.
   (A)   No person shall construct or cause to be constructed a partition fence
from barbed wire unless written consent of the adjoining owner is first
obtained. Such consent is not necessary to the use of one or two barbed wires,
provided that neither is less than 48 inches from the ground, and is placed on
the top of a fence other than a barbed wire fence.
   (B)   No person shall construct, erect, maintain or use for any purpose any
fence charged with electrical current within the corporate limits of the city.
   (C)   Whosoever violates this section shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not exceeding $50, and the costs of prosecution.
Each day this section is violated shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 9.14.04) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 STREETS AND SIDEWALKS: REPAIR, OBSTRUCTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any lot or land abutting upon
any street to refuse, fail or neglect to repair or keep in repair and free from
nuisance and obstruction, the sidewalk in front of such lot or land after due
notice of a resolution of City Council ordering the repair of such sidewalk.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person as owner, tenant, agent or
employee to construct any new sidewalk, curb, gutter, catch basin or driveway
apron or remove, repair or reconstruct any existing sidewalk, curb, gutter,
catch basin or driveway apron without having first obtained a permit issued by
the City Manager for such construction, removal, repair or reconstruction.
Construction shall be in accordance with the State Department of Transportation
2019 Construction and Material Specifications, Item 608, Walks, Curb Ramps and
Steps or latest edition thereof or to the satisfaction of the City Manager and
conforming to construction standards and specifications promulgated by the City
Manager for site specific situations.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, lessee or occupant of any real
estate within the corporate limits of the city, fronting or abutting upon any
street of public way along which a sidewalk has been constructed, to obstruct
any portion of said sidewalk, except as hereinafter provided, by placing or
permitting to be placed or remain thereon any barrel, box, bench, stand, table,
crate, rack or other device for storing, displaying or creating goods, wares
and merchandise, or apparatus used in his or her business, except that when
said sidewalk is 12 or more feet wide, the occupier of the premises may use a
space next to his or her property line not to exceed three feet wide, and when
said sidewalks are over seven and less than 12 feet wide, not to exceed two
feet wide, for the storage, deposit or display of his or her goods, wares or
merchandise.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for the owners of any railroad company operating
or owning a railroad running into or to the corporation limits of the city to
operate any train, cars, locomotive or engine so as to obstruct for a period of
more than five minutes at any one time any street, sidewalk or other street
crossing from any main switch, spur, wye or other railroad track in the city.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove any red lanterns,
barricades or other means placed on the streets and on construction projects,
public or private in the city as a warning or protection for the public by
persons unless authorized to remove the same nor shall any person willfully,
carelessly or negligently destroy said lanterns or barricades.
   (F)   It shall be the duty of the owner, or occupant of each and every
parcel of real estate in the city abutting upon a sidewalk to keep said
sidewalk abutting his or her premises free and clear of snow and ice, and to
remove there from all snow and ice accumulated thereon within a reasonable
time, which will ordinarily not exceed 12 hours, after the abatement of any
storm during which said snow and ice may have accumulated.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person, being the operator or owner or in
charge of any vehicle or equipment removing snow from private property, to
deposit the snow upon any property except that from which the snow is removed.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for any person, operator or owner of property to
discharge or deposit snow by truck, plow, blower, shovel or other snow removal
equipment onto any street, sidewalk, gutter, catch basin or highway except for
accumulations which are necessary residuals of street or highway cleaning
operations of the city or other public authority.
   (I)   It shall be unlawful for any person, operator or owner of property to
discharge or deposit any leaves, weeds, grass clippings, cigarette butts or
anything of an unsightly or unsanitary nature onto any street, sidewalk,
gutter, catch basin or highway.
   (J)   It shall be unlawful to use the public thoroughfares and adjacent
sidewalks of the city for the purpose of exhibiting commercially any dog, cat,
goat, rabbit, elephant or beast of whatsoever nature or to erect, establish or
maintain any commercial itinerant carnival organization for the purpose of
profit; provided, however, if a petition, regularly signed by 80% of the
property owners within an area 500 yards in circumference from the contemplated
site of such carnival or exhibition, shall be presented to the City Council
requesting permission to permit such carnival, then the City Manager shall
issue a license to said enterprise; provided such enterprise shall give bond to
the city in such amount as the City Manager shall deem proper.
(Prior Code, § 9.14.05) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 USED BUILDING MATERIALS, UNLICENSED MOTOR VEHICLES REFUSE AND RUBBISH.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall keep, store, place or allow to
remain any used building materials, unlicensed motor vehicles, motor vehicles
in an inoperative condition, motor vehicle parts, scrap metal, refuse or
rubbish on any lot, lots or parts of lots, or parcels of land within the
corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) above shall not apply to an unlicensed
motor vehicle, a motor vehicle in an inoperative condition, a motor vehicle
unfit for further use, an automobile and/or automobile parts which are kept
within an enclosed building.
   (C)   In the event of a violation of this section, the City Manager shall
cause notice to be given to the owner of the lots and lands, occupant or person
having charge of the premises upon which the violation occurs, to cease such
violation within ten days of such notice.
   (D)   In the event that the owner, occupant or person having charge of said
premises, fails to cause such violation to cease within ten days of said
notice, said person shall be deemed guilty of violation of this section and
shall be subject to the penalty provided herein. Each separate day in which the
offense continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (E)   (1)   Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, no person or
persons shall purchase used building materials and place or store them on any
lot, lots, parts of lots or parcels of lots, unless such materials are to be
used by the purchaser or owner in construction on the same lot owned or
controlled by such persons. Such materials shall not remain on said lot or part
of lot for a period of more than 30 days unless the construction or operation
plan for the use of said materials are used or commenced; and provided further
that such materials are used or consumed in the construction or removed from
the premises within 120 days from the time said materials were first placed on
the lot, lots or parts of lots. No person or persons shall move any such used
building materials so stored and placed to another location within the city for
the purpose of avoiding the intent of this section unless such materials are
used within ten days at the lot or lots to which they removed for the
construction of a building or buildings for which a permit has been properly
issued by the City Manager.
      (2)   In the event that such building materials are permitted to remain
on the premises beyond the period set forth in the section immediately
preceding, the City Manager or his or her designee shall cause notice to be
given as aforesaid in division (C) above.
   (F)   Whosoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor, and
if the offender has been convicted of a second violation of this section within
any one year, the offender shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
   (G)   The notice provided for hereinabove shall be a notice, in writing,
signed by the City Manager or his or her designee, and shall be served upon the
person in violation of this act. If at the conclusion of ten days compliance
has not been met with the provisions hereof, a citation shall issue citing the
person alleged in violation to appear in the Mayor’s court.
(Prior Code, § 9.14.06) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07 CURFEW OF MINORS.
   (A)   No child under the age of 16 years shall be upon the streets or
sidewalks between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 4:00 a.m. of the following
morning, except on Friday night and Saturday night, at which time the hour
shall be 11:00 p.m. and 4:00 a.m. of the following morning, or for any child
between the ages of 16 and 18 years of age to be upon the streets or sidewalks
between the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 4:00 a.m. of the following morning, except
on Friday night and Saturday night at which time the hour shall be 11:30 p.m.
and 4:00 a.m. the following morning, unless exempted under division (C) below.
   (B)   No parent or guardian of any child under the age of 16 years shall
allow said child upon the streets or sidewalks between the hours of 10:00 p.m.
and 4:00 a.m. of the following morning, except on Friday night and Saturday
night, at which time said hours shall be 11:00 p.m. and 4:00 a.m. the following
morning, and no parent or guardian of any child between the ages of 16 and 18
years shall allow said child to be upon the streets or sidewalks between the
hours of 10:30 p.m. and 4:00 a.m. of the following morning, unless exempted
under division (C) below.
   (C)   It is an exemption to a violation under this section that the person
engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor, if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
(Prior Code, § 9.14.07) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 POSTING OF ADVERTISING.
   (A)   No person shall stick or post any advertisement, poster, sign or
handbill or placard of any description upon any private building, or upon any
tree, post, fence, billboard, carriage step or any other structure or thing
whatever the property of another without permission of the occupant or owner of
the same. No person shall paint, mark, write, print or impress, or in any
matter attach any notice or advertisement or the name of any commodity or thing
or any trademark, symbol or figure of any kind upon anything whatever the
property of another without first obtaining permission of the owner of such
thing, on which they desire to place such notice, advertisement, name, mark or
figure.
   (B)   No person shall stick, post or attach any advertisement, poster sign,
handbill or placard of any kind or description upon any telegraph, telephone,
railway or electric light pole within the limits of said city, or upon any
public building, voting booth, flagging, curb stone, walk, step, stone or
sidewalk, or to write, print or impress or in any manner attach any notice of
advertisement of any kind upon any public building, voting booth, flagging,
curb stone or sidewalk, the property of the city, or within the street lines of
the city, or over which the city, or the City Council thereof, has the care,
custody or control, except such as may be required by the laws of the state or
the ordinances of the city.
(Prior Code, § 9.14.08) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.09 FIRES AND FIRE INSPECTION.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be unlawful for any person to ignite, burn or
set fire to any leaves, debris, garbage, rubbish or trash on any street in the
city at any time; or to ignite, burn or set fire to any leaves, debris, rubbish
or trash at any other place within the corporate limits, except between the
hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. Any such fires shall, at all times, be
properly safeguarded so as to not cause damage or a nuisance to any person or
property. At all other times, except as provided herein, such fires must be
thoroughly quenched and not permitted to smoke or smolder.
   (B)   The Fire Safety Inspector shall inspect or cause to be inspected the
various buildings or premises for the purpose of ascertaining whether the
proper precautions are taken for the prevention of fire, and if he or she shall
find that conditions are caused or permitted to exist which are dangerous and
in his or her opinion is likely to cause a fire in any such buildings or
premises inspected, he or she shall order the owner to correct said condition
within a time stated in such order and such person shall comply with such order
within 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 9.14.09) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.10 DEPOSITING POISON.
   (A)   No person shall leave or deposit poison or a substance containing
poison in a common, street, alley, lane or thoroughfare, or a yard or enclosure
occupied by another.
   (B)   Whosoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 9.14.10) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.11 DEPOSIT OF DEAD ANIMALS, OFFAL AND THE LIKE UPON LAND OR WATER.
   (A)   No person shall put the carcass of a dead animal or the offal from a
slaughter house, butcher’s establishment, packing house or fish house, or
spoiled meat, spoiled fish or other putrid substance of the contents of a privy
vault, upon or into a lake, river, bay, creek, pond, canal, road, street,
alley, lot, field, meadow, public ground, market place or common.
   (B)   No owner or occupant of such place shall knowingly permit such thing
to remain therein to the annoyance of any citizen or neglect to remove or abate
the nuisance occasioned thereby within 24 hours after knowledge of the
existence thereof, or after notice thereof in writing from the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 9.14.11) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.12 LITTERING PUBLIC WAYS.
   No person shall place or dispose of, in any manner, any garbage, waste or
peelings of vegetables or fruits, rubbish, ashes, cans, bottles, wire, paper,
cartons, boxes, parts of automobiles, wagons, furniture, glass, oil or anything
else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature along or near or on any public road,
street, parkway, park drive, highway, ditch or any land adjoining any public
road of highway or ditch, except on land provided by a Zoning Commission, city
ordinance or other governmental authority, unless directed to do so by public
officials on special clean up days.
(Prior Code, § 9.14.12) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.13 UNVENTED HEATERS.
   (A)   The use of a brazier, salamander, space heater, room heater, furnace,
water heater or other burner or heater using wood, coal, coke, fuel oil,
kerosene, gasoline, natural gas, liquid petroleum gas or similar fuel, and
tending to give off carbon monoxide or other harmful gases must comply with the
following provisions:
      (1)   When used in living quarters, or in any enclosed building or space
in which persons are usually present, shall be used with a flue or vent so
designed, installed and maintained as to vent the products of combustion
outdoors; except in storage, factory or industrial buildings which are provided
with sufficient ventilation to avoid the danger of carbon monoxide poisoning;
and
      (2)   When used as a portable or temporary burner or heater at a
construction site, or in a warehouse, shed or structure in which persons are
temporarily present, shall be vented as provided in division (A)(1) above or
used with sufficient ventilation to avoid the danger of carbon monoxide
poisoning.
   (B)   This section does not apply to domestic ranges, laundry stoves, gas
logs installed in a fireplace with an adequate flue or hot plates, unless the
same are used as space or room heaters.
   (C)   No person shall negligently use, or, being the owner, person in charge
or occupant of premises, negligently permit the use of, a burner or heater in
violation of the standards for venting and ventilation provided in this
section.
   (D)   Division (A) above does not apply to any kerosene-fired space or room
heater that is equipped with an automatic extinguishing tip-over device, or to
any natural gas-fired or liquid petroleum gas-fired space or room heater that
is equipped with an oxygen depletion safety shut-off system, and that has its
fuel piped from a source outside the building in which it is located, that are
approved by an authoritative source recognized by the State Fire Marshal in the
State Fire Code adopted by him or her under R.C. § 3737.82.
   (E)   The State Fire Marshal may make rules to ensure the safe use of
unvented kerosene, natural gas or liquid petroleum gas heaters exempted from
division (A) above when used in assembly buildings, business buildings, high
hazard buildings, institutional buildings, mercantile buildings and type R-
1 and R-2 residential buildings, as these groups of buildings are defined in
rules adopted by the Board of Building Standards under R.C. § 3781.10. No
person shall negligently use, or, being the owner, person in charge or occupant
of premises, negligently permit the use of, a heater in violation of any rules
adopted under this division.
   (F)   The State Fire Marshal may make rules prescribing standards for
written instructions containing ventilation requirements and warning of any
potential fire hazards that may occur in using a kerosene, natural gas or
liquid petroleum gas heater. No person shall sell or offer for sale any
kerosene, natural gas or liquid petroleum gas heater unless the manufacturer
provides with the heater written instructions that comply with any rules
adopted under this division.
   (G)   No product labeled as a fuel additive for kerosene heaters and having
a flash point below 100°F or 37.8°C shall be sold, offered for sale or used in
any kerosene space heater.
   (H)   No device that prohibits any safety feature on a kerosene, natural gas
or liquid petroleum gas space heater from operating shall be sold, offered for
sale or used in connection with any kerosene, natural gas or liquid petroleum
gas space heater.
   (I)   No person shall sell or offer for sale any kerosene-fired, natural gas
or liquid petroleum gas-fired heater that is not exempt from division (A)
above, unless it is marked conspicuously by the manufacturer on the container
with the phrase “Not Approved For Home Use”.
   (J)   No person shall use a cabinet-type, liquid petroleum gas-fired heater
having a fuel source within the heater, inside any building, except as
permitted by the State Fire Marshal in the State Fire Code adopted by him or
her under R.C. § 3737.82.
(R.C. § 3701.82)
   (K)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 3701.99(B))
(Prior Code, § 9.14.13) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.14 EXCESSIVE NOISE AND MUSIC.
   (A)   (1)   Excessive noises. No person or organization shall engage in any
performance or use any electronic device in any manner as to create a public
disturbance or operate or permit the operation of any sound amplification
system from within a vehicle so that the sound is plainly audible at a distance
of 50 or more feet from the vehicle.
      (2)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         PLAINLY AUDIBLE. Any sound produced by a sound amplification system
from within the vehicle which clearly can be heard from a distance of 50 feet
or more. Measurement standards shall be by the auditory senses, based upon
direct line of sight. Words or phrases need not be discernable and base
reverberations are included. The motor vehicle may be stopped, standing, parked
or moving on a street, highway, alley, parking lot or driveway.
         PUBLIC DISTURBANCE. Loud music revelry, or electronically reproduced
sound done or created at a time and a place, or in a manner so as to create a
substantial likelihood of disturbing the public’s reasonable expectation of
peace and quiet.
         SOUND AMPLIFICATION SYSTEM. Any radio, tape player, compact disc
player, loud speaker or other electronic device used for amplification of the
human voice and/or musical instrument.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to charge under this section that the
operator was not otherwise prohibited by law from operating the sound
amplification system, and that any of the following apply:
      (1)   A system was being operated to request medical or vehicular
assistance or to warn of a hazardous road condition;
      (2)   The vehicle was an emergency or public safety vehicle;
      (3)   The vehicle was owned and operated by the city or gas, electric,
communications or refuse company; or
      (4)   The vehicle was used in authorized public activities, such as
parades, fireworks, sports events, musical productions and other activities
which have the approval of the department of the city authorized to grant such
approval.
   (C)   Such offenses shall be a minor misdemeanor.
   (D)   No person who owns, rents, leases or has control of or possession of
any lot, business, property, house, rental unit, house trailer, mobile home,
room apartment or any other vehicle or place used for human habitation, shall
negligently allow said lot, business, property, house, rental unit, house
trailer, mobile home, room, apartment or any other place or vehicle used for
human habitation to be used in a manner which produces or disseminates
unreasonable noises or in a manner that breaches the peace of the neighborhood
in which it is located.
      (1)   It shall be prima facie evidence of using property to disturb the
peace when a police officer, in good faith effort to enforce this section,
notifies the offender that, in the police officer’s judgment, the offender is
producing or disseminating unreasonable noises or is breaching the peace of the
neighborhood and the offender, once notified, continues producing or
disseminating unreasonable noises or breaches the peace of the neighborhood
after such notice by the police officer.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to zone use of property
or land to certain uses.
(Prior Code, § 9.14.15) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.15 EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE OF PROPERTY AND PREMISES CONDITIONS.
   (A)   All exterior property areas and premises located within the city shall
be maintained in a clean, safe and sanitary condition, free from any
accumulation of garbage, refuse, rubbish, special rubbish or litter otherwise
in violation of §§
53.03,
53.12,
91.03 and/or
91.12 or other applicable sections as herein established or amended.
   (B)   No owner, operator, agent, tenant, lease holder, firm, corporation or
entity capable of holding title of real property or premises within the city
shall maintain or permit to be maintained at, or on, the exterior property
areas of such premises any condition which deteriorates or debases the
appearance of the neighborhood; adversely alters the appearance and general
character of the neighborhood; creates a fire, safety or health hazard; or is a
public nuisance, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Broken or dilapidated fences, walls or other structures in
disrepair;
      (2)   Out of use, unusable, discarded or inoperable appliances;
      (3)   Unlicensed and/or inoperable motor vehicles described in §§
153.158 or §
77.01 and/or accumulation of motor vehicle parts, including tires on or off a
wheel or rim;
      (4)   Display of vending machines in single-family residential zones, on
property in any zone where the primary use is single-family residential or on
the sidewalks of the public square in accordance with Ordinance 29-86;
      (5)   Broken, dilapidated, discarded or unusable furniture, including,
but not limited to, mattresses, box springs, bed frames or upholstered
furniture intended for indoor use;
      (6)   Used building material, including floor coverings and carpet,
stored on a lot where the material is not being used in association with
repairs or construction;
      (7)   The storage of materials in boxes, bags, sacks or containers, kept
on open porches or outside a completely enclosed building or other materials
that contribute to neighborhood blight;
      (8)   Conditions described in §
91.01; or
      (9)   Conditions described in §
91.06.
(Prior Code, § 9.14.16) Penalty, see §
91.99
NUISANCE STRUCTURES
§ 91.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   STRUCTURE UNIT FOR HUMAN OCCUPANCY. A structure that is unsafe, or because
of the degree in which it lacks maintenance or is in disrepair; is unsanitary;
vermin or rat infested; contains filth and contamination; or lacks ventilation,
illumination, sanitary or heating facilities or other essential equipment, or
because its location constitutes a hazard to it occupants or to the public.
   UNREASONABLE REPAIRS. When the cost of repair to a structure would exceed
100% of the County Auditor’s true value of such structure; such repairs shall
be presumed unreasonable.
   UNSAFE EQUIPMENT. Any boiler, heating equipment, elevator, moving stairway,
electrical wiring or device, flammable liquid or containers, or other equipment
on the premises or within the structure which is in such disrepair or condition
that it is found to be a hazard to life, health, property or safety of the
public or occupants of the premises or structure. UNSAFE EQUIPMENT may
contribute to the finding that a structure is unsafe or unfit for human
occupancy or use.
   UNSAFE STRUCTURE. One in which all or part thereof is found to be dangerous
to life, health, property or the safety of the public or its occupants because
it is so damaged, decayed, dilapidated, structurally unsafe or of such faulty
construction or unstable condition that it is likely to partially or completely
collapse.
(Prior Code, § 9.15.01.01)
§ 91.31 CONDEMNATION.
   When a structure or part thereof is found to be unsafe, or when a structure
or part thereof is found unfit for human occupancy or use, it may be condemned
pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter, and may be placarded and
vacated. A proper affidavit shall be prepared by the City Manager and such
action shall be recorded in the County Recorder’s office and cross-referenced
to the deed to the property. The structure or part thereof shall not be
reoccupied without written approval from the City Manager. Unsafe equipment
shall be placarded and placed out of service.
(Prior Code, § 9.15.01.02)
§ 91.32 CLOSING OF VACANT STRUCTURES.
   If a structure or any part thereof is vacant and unfit for human habitation,
occupancy or use and is not in danger of structural collapse, the City Manager
may post a placard of condemnation on the premises and may order the structure
closed up so it will not be an attractive nuisance. Upon failure of the owner
to close up the premises within the time specified in the order, the City
Manager shall cause it to be closed through any available public agency or by
contract, or arrangement by private persons, and the cost thereof shall be
charged against the real estate upon which the structure is located and shall
be a lien against such real estate.
(Prior Code, § 9.15.01.03)
§ 91.33 NOTICE AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Notice to owner or occupants. When a property or part thereof has been
condemned, the City Manager shall give notice to the owner and to the occupants
of the intent to placard and to vacate the property or to order equipment out
of service.
   (B)   Form of notice. The notice to owner shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a description of the real estate sufficient for
identification;
      (3)   Include a statement of the reason why it is being issued;
      (4)   Include a correction order allowing a reasonable time for repairs
and improvements but in no cases shall the time period exceed 60 days; and
      (5)   Include and explanation of the owner’s right to seek modification
or withdrawal of the notice by written petition to City Council.
   (C)   Service on owner. Service shall be deemed to be properly served upon
such owner if a copy thereof is delivered to the owner personally, or by
leaving at the usual place of abode, in the presence of someone in the family
of suitable age and discretion who shall be informed of the contents thereof,
or by certified or registered mail addressed to the owner at the last known
address with return receipt requested, or if the certified or registered letter
is returned with receipt showing that it has not been delivered, by posting of
a copy thereof in a conspicuous place in or about the structure affected by
such notice, and at least one publication of such notice in a local newspaper
of general circulation at least once a week for three consecutive weeks.
   (D)   Service on occupant. When a condemnation order is served on an
occupant other than the owner or person responsible for compliance, a
reasonable time to vacate the property after noncompliance shall be stated. In
no cause shall this time period exceed 60 days. Owners or persons responsible
for compliance must vacate at the time set for correction of defects if there
is failure of compliance.
(Prior Code, § 9.15.01.04)
§ 91.34 PLACARDING.
   (A)   Placarding of structure. After the condemnation notice has been served
and the compliance period expired, the City Manager may post on the premises,
structure or parts thereof, or on defective equipment, a placard bearing the
words:
WARNING
   This property has been determined by the City of Nelsonville to be unfit for
human habitation. It shall be unlawful for this building to be rented, leased
or occupied from the date of this notice or until all repairs have been made in
a manner approved in writing by the City Manager, subject to occupants being
given a reasonable time thereafter to vacate. Mutilation, unauthorized removal
or defacing of this placard shall be in violation punishable under the City of
Nelsonville ordinances.
   (B)   Prohibited use. Any person who shall occupy a placarded premises or
structure or part thereof, or shall use placarded equipment, and any owner or
person responsible for the premises who shall let anyone occupy placarded
premises shall be liable for the penalties provided by this ordinance.
   (C)   Removal of placard. The City Manager shall remove the condemnation
placard whenever the defect or defects upon which the condemnation and
placarding action were based have been eliminated. Any person who defaces or
removes a condemnation placard without the approval of the City Manager shall
be subject to the penalties provided by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9.15.01.05) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.35 REOCCUPANCY OF THE BUILDING.
   No structure which has been condemned and placarded as unfit for human
habitation or use shall again be used until written approval has been secured
from the City Manager. The City Manager shall remove the placard when written
notice has been received from the owner and inspection confirms that the
defects which resulted in the placard have been eliminated, and shall also file
an affidavit with the County Recorder’s office to that effect.
(Prior Code, § 9.15.01.06) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.36 DEMOLITION OF THE BUILDING.
   (A)   City Council action. When it is determined that a building is so old,
dilapidated or has become so out of repair as to be dangerous, unsafe,
unsanitary or otherwise unfit for human habitation, occupancy or use, and that
it would be unreasonable to repair the same, the City Council may, through
motion and vote, determine that the building is a public nuisance and to have
the building razed and removed, or if it can be made safe by repairs, to repair
and make safe and sanitary.
   (B)   Demolition order. The order shall specify a time not to exceed 60 days
in which the owner shall comply therewith and specify repairs, if any. It shall
be served on the owner of record or an agent where and agent is in charge of
the building upon the holder of any encumbrance of record in the manner
provided for service of a summons by a court of record. If the owner of a
holder of an encumbrance of record cannot be found, the order may be served by
posting it on the main entrance of the building and by publishing it once each
week for three successive weeks in a local newspaper of general circulation.
   (C)   Restraining actions. Any person affected by an order of demolition
may, within ten working days after service of such order, apply to a court of
record for an order restraining the city from razing or removing such structure
or parts thereof. The court shall determine whether the demolition order is
reasonable and, if found reasonable, shall dissolve the restraining order. If
the court finds the order unreasonable, the court shall continue the
restraining order or modify it as the circumstances may require.
   (D)   Failure to comply. Whenever the owner of a property fails to comply
with a demolition order within the time prescribed, the City Manager shall
cause the structure or part thereof to be razed and removed, either through an
available public agency or by contract or arrangement by private persons, and
the cost thereof shall be charged against the real estate upon which the
structure is located and shall be a lien against such real estate and be cross-
referenced to the deed of such real estate.
(Prior Code, § 9.15.01.07)
§ 91.37 APPEALS TO CONDEMNATION OF PLACARDING.
   Any person receiving written notice from the City Manager, or his or her
agent, of alleged deficiencies on their property may, within 30 days following
the date of such notice, submit a written appeal to the City Council. Such
appeal shall state the location of the property and the date of the notice of
violations. The appellant must state the reasons, hardship or conditions upon
which the appeal is made. The City Council shall meet to discuss the matter
within 30 days after the receipt of the written appeal. City Council decisions
on the matter shall be by motion and vote, and shall be delivered, in writing,
to the appellant and the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 9.15.01.08)
§ 91.38 FIRE DAMAGED STRUCTURES; REMOVAL OR REPAIR FUND.
   (A)   No insurance company doing business in the state shall pay a claim of
a named insured for fire damage to a structure located within the city where
the amount recoverable for the fire loss to the structure under all policies
exceeds $5,000, unless there is compliance with the following procedures.
      (1)   (a)   When the loss agreed to between the named insured or insureds
and the company or companies equals or exceeds 60% of the aggregate limits of
liability on all fire policies covering the building or structure, the
insurance company or companies, in accordance with R.C. § 715.26(F), shall
transfer from the insurance proceeds to the City Auditor in the aggregate
$2,000 for each $15,000, and each fraction of that amount, of a claim, or, if,
at the time of a proof of loss agreed to between the named insured or insureds
and the insurance company or companies, the named insured or insureds have
submitted a contractor’s signed estimate of the costs of removing, repairing or
securing the building or other structure, shall transfer from the insurance
proceeds the amount specified in the estimate.
         (b)   The transfer of proceeds shall be on a pro rata basis by all
companies insuring the building or other structure. Policy proceeds remaining
after the transfer to the city shall be disbursed in accordance with the policy
terms. The named insured or insureds may submit a contractor’s signed estimate
of the costs of removing, repairing or securing the building or other structure
after the transfer, and the City Auditor, after notifying the City Manager,
shall return the amount of the fund in excess of the estimate to the named
insured or insureds, provided that the city has not commenced to remove, repair
or secure the building or other structure.
      (2)   (a)   Upon receipt of proceeds by the city as authorized by this
section, the City Auditor shall place the proceeds in a separate fund to be
used solely as security against the total cost of removing, repairing or
securing incurred by the city pursuant to R.C. § 715.261.
         (b)   When transferring the funds as required in division (A) above,
an insurance company shall provide the city with the name and address of the
named insured or insureds, whereupon the city shall contact the named insured
or insureds, certify that the proceeds have been received by the city, and
notify them that the following procedures will be followed: The fund shall be
returned to the named insured or insureds when repairs, removal or securing of
the building or other structure have been completed and the required proof has
been received by the City Manager, if the city has not incurred any costs for
the repairs, removal or securing. However, the fund shall be returned to the
named insured or insureds no later than 60 days after the City Auditor receives
the required proof. If the city has incurred any costs for repairs, removal or
securing of the building or other structure, the costs shall be paid from the
fund, and if excess funds remain, the city shall transfer, no later than 60
days after all such costs have been paid, the remaining funds to the named
insured or insureds.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the ability of the
city to recover any deficiency under R.C. § 715.261.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the city and
the named insured or insureds from entering into an agreement that permits the
transfer of funds to the named insured or insureds if some other reasonable
disposition of the damaged property has been negotiated.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to make an insurance
company liable for any amount in excess of proceeds payable under its insurance
policy or for any other act performed pursuant to this section, or to make the
city an insured under a policy of insurance, or to create an obligation to pay
delinquent property taxes or unpaid removal liens or expenses other than as
provided by law.
   (E)   As used in this section and R.C. § 3929.87, “insurance company” or
“insurer” includes the State Fair Plan Underwriting Association as established
in R.C. § 3929.43.
   (F)   The City Auditor is hereby designated as the officer authorized to
carry out the duties of this section, provided that no funds so held under this
section shall be released without notification of such intent to the City
Manager.
   (G)   This section shall be liberally construed to accomplish its purpose to
deter the commission of arson and related crimes, to discourage the abandonment
of property and to prevent urban blight and deterioration.
(Prior Code, § 9.15.01.09)
§ 91.39 DEMOLITION PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   A demolition permit shall be obtained from the City Manager or
designated agent prior to the destruction and removal of a building or
structure where the area demolished exceeds 60% of the gross floor area or 60%
of the market value of the building or structure. A permit shall not be
required for one story accessory structures less than 200 square feet in area.
   (B)   Each permit application shall contain, at a minimum:
      (1)   A site plan indicating the vicinity of the property, the location
of the building proposed for demolition, the names of adjacent property owners
and the location of buildings on those lots, the location of all utilities, the
location of all dumpsters and equipment storage areas and the location of signs
and fencing to minimize any attractive nuisance created by the demolition and
to protect the public;
      (2)   A narrative statement or completed application indicating the name
of the owner and/or demolition contractor, estimated time for removal and
clean-up, verification of the disconnection of utilities and commitment to the
proper disposal of all demolition debris;
      (3)   A performance bond, letter of credit, cash deposit or other surety
in a form and amount determined sufficient by the City Manager, or his or her
agent, in favor of the owner and/or the city guaranteeing the workpersonlike
completion of the demolition but not less than $5,000 for a structure not
exceeding 2,500 square feet in gross floor area and not exceeding two stories
in height, $10,000 for a structure exceeding 2,500 square feet in gross floor
area and not exceeding two stories in height and $20,000 for structures greater
than two stories in height regardless of gross floor area. The City Manager may
require surety amounts greater than the stated minimums or upon initial
application review of the scope of work of a project reduce or waive minimum
requirements;
      (4)   Liability insurance policy or certificate covering the owner or
contractor in an amount not less than $300,000 for the protection of adjacent
property owners, the general public and the city; and
      (5)   Any other information, conditions or attachments deemed necessary
by the City Manager or designated agent for permit administration and in
keeping with public health, safety and welfare or the unnecessary expenditure
of public funds.
   (C)   A permit fee shall be paid prior to issuance of the demolition permit
in the sum of $50 for residential structures and $100 for commercial,
nonresidential or mixed uses or in an amount as otherwise established by
separate City Council ordinance.
   (D)   The permit shall be valid for a period not to exceed 30 days and may
be renewed by the City Manager or designated agent at no additional cost so
long as demolition is actively pursued and all other requirements maintained.
Upon investigation and notification to the owner and/or contractor of failure
to comply with any requirement, condition or attachment to a permit approval,
the permit shall be voided and all activity cease until the deficiency is
corrected and the permit is revalidated.
(Prior Code, § 9.15.01.10)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.30 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates §
91.05 is guilty of a minor misdemeanor, and if the offender has previously been
convicted of a violation of this section, the offender shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   Each day §
91.05 is violated shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 9.14.05)
   (C)   Whosoever violates §
91.07(B) is guilty of allowing children upon the streets after curfew, a minor
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 9.14.07)
   (D)   Whosoever violates §
91.08 is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and if the offender has previously been
convicted of a violation of this section, the offender shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(Prior Code, § 9.14.08)
   (E)   Whosoever violates §
91.09 is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and if the offender has previously been
convicted of a violation of this section, the offender shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor in the fourth degree.
(Prior Code, § 9.14.09)
   (F)   Whosoever violates §
91.11 is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 9.14.11)
   (G)   Whosoever violates §
91.12 is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 9.14.12)
   (H)   Whosoever violates §
91.13 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(Prior Code, § 9.14.13)
   (I)   Whosoever violates §
91.14 is guilty of using property to disturb the peace, a misdemeanor in the
fourth degree.
(Prior Code, § 9.14.15)
   (J)   (1)   The penalty for violating §
91.15(A) shall be a fine of $20 for the first offense, $40 for the second
offense within one year of the first offense, $60 for the third offense within
one year of the first offense, $80 for the fourth offense within one year first
offense and $100 for the fifth offense within one year of the first offense.
The fine shall be attached to the resident’s utility bill for the offending
property. The ticket/citation will be documented by a time and dated picture of
each offense to be filed and maintained by the citing officer.
      (2)   The penalty for violating §
91.15(B) or a sixth offense of §
91.15(A) shall be a minor misdemeanor and a misdemeanor of the fourth degree
for a subsequent offense within a one-year period.
(Prior Code, § 9.14.16)
   (K)   (1)   See §
130.99 for penalties applicable to any misdemeanor classification.
(Prior Code, § 9.14.99)
      (2)   Any person violating a provision of this section shall be deemed
guilty of a minor misdemeanor in accordance with R.C. Chapter 2929.28,
Financial Sanctions - Misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 9.15.99)
CHAPTER 92: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Water park fees
   
92.02   Tobacco use at city park lands
Camping
   
92.15   Purpose
   
92.16   Definitions
   
92.17   Unlawful camping
   
92.18   Storage of personal property on public and private property
   
92.19   Permit for special events required
   
92.20   Posting copy of permit
   
92.21   Power of City Manager to make rules and regulations
   
92.22   Current provisions
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 WATER PARK FEES.
   (A)   The following fees are established for the use of the city’s water
park:
Daily Entry Fee (In Town)*
Ages 4 and up                                         $5
Children (3 and under)                                Free
Daily Entry Fee (Out of Town)
Ages 4 and up                                         $5
Children (3 and under)                                Free
Seasonal Pass Rates
                                                      In Town Out-of-Town
Household - Maximum number 6 people                   $199    $225
$15 applied for each member over 6
Adult (18+)                                           $125    $150
Youth (4-17)                                          $100    $125
Senior (over 65)                                      $40     $65
Employee of City of Nelsonville and immediate family  Free    Free
Active Duty Service, Veterans, First Responders (with Free    Free
proper ID)
 
*Nelsonville-York students get in-town rate (student ID required)
 
Pool Rental Fees
Pool Rental Rate is $250 for two hours (after hours rate)
Pool Rental Rate is $150 during pool hours (up to 50 guests)
Swimming Lessons/Water Aerobics
$45 per child swimming lessons
$5 per water aerobics sessions
$4 Adult Lap Swim
Silver Sneakers (must present number) Free for Aerobics
For in-town rates, must have Nelsonville address or school ID as shown on water
bill or tax return.
 
   (B)   The city will offer a free swim on July 4th.
   (C)   Sponsors of swim days will get 24% off daily passes (Minimum of 100
passes and limited to pool capacity).
   (D)   Concession pricing is at the discretion of the City Manager or Pool
Manager.
(Ord. 44-20, passed 6-15-2020; Ord. 37-22, passed 5-9-2022; Ord. 36-23, passed
5-22-2023)
§ 92.02 TOBACCO USE AT CITY PARK LANDS.
   (A)   USE OF ANY FORM OF TOBACCO means all uses of tobacco, including
inhaling, exhaling, burning or carrying any lighted cigar, cigarette, pipe,
other lighted smoking device or papers for burning tobacco, or any other plant;
chewing tobacco, snuff or any other matter or substances that contain tobacco.
   (B)   No person shall use any form of tobacco at, or on, any city-owned or
operated park lands, including, but not limited to, parking areas, restroom,
spectator and concession areas, playgrounds, athletic fields, aquatic areas,
pavilions and shelters.
   (C)   City-owned or operated park lands shall cause to be conspicuously
posted “tobacco free”, “no smoking” or “smoking prohibited” signs at the
entrance to each facility.
(Prior Code, § 9.15.02) (Ord. 24-15, passed 5-11-2015) Penalty, see §
92.99
CAMPING
§ 92.15 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The streets and public areas with the city need to be readily
accessible and available to residents and the general public at large. The use
of these areas for camping purposes or storage of personal property interferes
with the rights of others to use these areas for which they were intended. Such
activity can also constitute a public health and safety hazard which adversely
impacts other members of the public and private lands, streets, sidewalks,
alleys, ways, creeks, waterways, parks, playgrounds, recreation areas, plazas,
open spaces, lots, parcels and other public and private areas within the city
in a clean, sanitary and accessible condition and to protect the health, safety
and welfare of the community, while recognizing that, subject to reasonable
conditions, camping and camping facilities associated with special events can
be beneficial to the cultural and educational well-being of city residents.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter is intended to interfere with otherwise lawful
and ordinary uses of public or private property.
   (C)   The unauthorized or inappropriate use of outdoor cooking equipment,
open flame, fires or stoves of any sort typically associated with camping
creates a major fire threat to life, safety and property, including public and
private property, open lands and hillsides. Illegal campsites are typically
located in areas where high levels of combustible vegetation are located (e.g.,
wooded areas) which creates an even higher level of a fire threat.
   (D)   Camping adjacent to, within or below the top of banks or creeks or
streams poses a health and safety risk from potential flooding, proximity to
unstable banks with slippage potential, health risks from human waste entering
into creeks, streams or other waterways and the risk of damage to
environmentally sensitive habitat and species known to exist in some portions
of the city, such as creeks, streams, waterways and wetlands.
   (E)   Unauthorized camping near bicycle paths within the city also increases
the potential for crimes against persons using the bicycle path.
   (F)   It is not the intent or purpose of this chapter to prohibit overnight,
temporary camping on private residentially zoned property when located on the
same lot as an existing single-family residence. Temporary camping shall be
defined as occasional and not for a period of more than seven consecutive days.
(Ord. 43-21, passed 7-12-2021)
§ 92.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMP, CAMPING or OCCUPY CAMPING FACILITIES. To do any of the following:
      (1)   To sleep at any time between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 8:30 a.m.
in any of the following places:
         (a)   Outdoors, with or without bedding, sleeping bag, blanket,
mattress, tent, hammock, camping facility or other similar protection,
equipment or device; or
         (b)   In, on or under any structure or thing not intended for human
occupancy, whether with or without bedding, sleeping bag, blanket, mattress,
tent, hammock, camping or other similar protection, equipment or device.
      (2)   To establish or maintain outdoors or in, on or under any structure,
object or thing not intended for human occupancy, at any time between the hours
of 11:00 p.m. and 8:30 a.m., a temporary or permanent place for sleeping by
setting up any bedding, sleeping bag, blanket, mattress, tent, hammock, camping
facility or other sleeping equipment or device in such as to be usable for
sleeping purposes.
   CAMPING FACILITY or CAMPING FACILITIES. Include, but are not limited to,
tents, huts, lean-tos, tarps, trailers, vehicles, vehicle camping outfits or
other forms of temporary shelter.
   CAMPING PARAPHERNALIA. Includes, but it is not limited to, bedrolls,
blankets, tarpaulins, cots, beds, mattresses, pads, sleeping bags, hammocks,
lanterns, stoves or non-city designated cooking facilities and similar
equipment.
   CITY MANAGER. The City Manager or his or her designee.
   ESTABLISH. Setting up or moving equipment, supplies or materials onto public
or private property for the purpose of camping or operating or using camping
facilities.
   MAINTAIN. Keeping or permitting equipment, supplies or materials to remain
on public or private property in order to camp oroperate or use camping
facilities.
   OPERATE or OPERATING. Participating or assisting in establishing or
maintaining a camp or camping facility.
   PARKS. Public and private parks.
   PLAYGROUNDS. Play lots, playgrounds and play fields for local youth and
adult recreation programs, excluding professional or semi-professional athletic
fields or other outdoor commercial recreation.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. All privately-owned real estate including, but not limited
to, privately-owned streets, sidewalks, alleys, ways, creeks, waterways, lots,
parcels and other forms of improved or unimproved land or real property.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. All publicly-owned property, including, but not limited to,
public streets, sidewalks, alleys, ways, creeks, waterways, parks, playgrounds,
recreation areas, plazas, open spaces, lots, parcels and other forms of
improved or unimproved land or real property.
   SIDEWALKS. The areas along the frontage of private or public property
between the street pavement line and the adjacent property line designated or
designed for pedestrian use, including driveways and landscape medians.
   SPECIAL EVENT. The meaning set forth in § 12.32.050.
   STORE. To set aside or accumulate for use when needed, to put for
safekeeping or to place or leave in a location.
   STREETS or PUBLIC STREETS. Includes avenue, highways, lanes, alleys, ways,
crossings or intersections, courts and cul-de-sacs that have been dedicated and
accepted according to law, or which have been in common and undisputed use by
the public for a period of not less than five years from the effective date of
the ordinance enacting this subchapter. STREETS and PUBLIC STREETS do not
include privately-owned streets unless the context clearly provides otherwise.
(Ord. 43-21, passed 7-12-2021)
§ 92.17 UNLAWFUL CAMPING.
   It is unlawful and a public nuisance for any person or group of persons to
camp, occupy camping facilities or use camping paraphernalia in the following
areas:
   (A)   Any public property, improved or unimproved, including, but not
limited to, public streets and sidewalks, parks, open space and other property;
and
   (B)   Except as otherwise permitted under §
92.19 and any private property.
(Ord. 43-21, passed 7-12-2021) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.18 STORAGE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY ON PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful and a public nuisance for any person to store personal
property, including, but not limited to, camping facilities and camping
paraphernalia, in the following areas, except as otherwise specifically
permitted, in writing, by the City Manager upon a finding by the City Manager
that, under the circumstances, such storage shall not constitute a public
nuisance nor be a threat to the public health, safety or welfare:
   (A)   Any public property, improved or unimproved, including, but not
limited to, public streets and sidewalks; or
   (B)   Any private property without the consent of the owner or other lawful
user of such property.
(Ord. 43-21, passed 7-12-2021) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.19 PERMIT FOR SPECIAL EVENTS REQUIRED.
   The City Manager may, in his or her discretion, issue a temporary permit for
camping in connection with a special event. A “special event” is intended to
include, but not be limited to, programs operated by the department of the
city, youth or school events, sporting events, scouting activities and other
events that bring special groups to the city that the City Manager deems to be
in the public interest and shall not constitute a public nuisance nor be a
threat to the public health, safety or welfare. In rendering this
determination, the City Manager may consult with various city departments, the
health officer or members of the public prior to issuing any temporary permit.
Each department or person consulted may provide comments to the City Manager
regarding any health, safety or public welfare concerns and provide
recommendations to the City Manager pertaining to the issuance, denial or
conditioning of the permit. A reasonable fee, to be set by the City Council,
shall be paid in advance, by the applicant. The fee shall be returned if the
application is denied. In exercising his or her discretion to issue a temporary
permit, the City Manager may consider any facts or evidence bearing on the
sanitary health, safety and welfare conditions on or surrounding the area or
tract of land which the proposed temporary camp or camping facility is to be
located.
(Ord. 43-21, passed 7-12-2021) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.20 POSTING COPY OF PERMIT.
   The permit obtained from the City Manager, in accordance with §
92.19, shall be at all times posted in a conspicuous place upon the area or
tract of land upon which the camp or camping facility is located.
(Ord. 43-21, passed 7-12-2021)
§ 92.21 POWER OF CITY MANAGER TO MAKE RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The City Manager is further empowered to ascertain that the operation or
maintenance of any camp or camping facility to which a temporary permit has
been issued pursuant to §
92.19 will not jeopardize the public health, safety or welfare and, for this
purpose, may make additional rules and regulations pertaining to their
establishment, maintenance or operation, The City Manager may also impose
conditions on the establishment, maintenance or operation of the camp or
camping facility, including, but not limited to, security, sanitation
facilities, the number of occupants, posting of bonds or deposits, insurance,
quiet hours, duration of the permit and permitted activities on the premises.
When the City Manager issues any permit pursuant to §
92.19, such permit may be revoked at any time thereafter, by the City Manager
if the City Manager reasonably determines that the maintenance or continuing
operation of the camp or camping facility is a public nuisance or poses a
threat to or is adverse to the public health, safety or welfare.
(Ord. 43-21, passed 7-12-2021)
§ 92.22 CURRENT PROVISIONS.
   Neither the adoption of this subchapter nor its repeal or amendment shall,
in any manner, affect the prosecution for violation of this code or other
ordinances, which violations were committed prior to the effective date of such
adoption, repeal or amendment, nor be construed as affecting any of the
provisions of this code or other city ordinance, regulation or rule relating to
the collection of any license, fee or penal sum applicable to any violation
thereof, nor affect the validity of any bond or cash deposit in lieu thereof,
required to be posted, filed or deposited pursuant to this code or other city
ordinance, regulation or rule and all rights and obligations thereunder
appertaining shall continue in full force and effect.
(Ord. 43-21, passed 7-12-2021)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.30 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Whomever violates §
92.02 shall be subject to a fine of $100.
(Prior Code, § 9.15.02)
   (C)   A violation of §§
91.15 through
92.22 is a misdemeanor or an infraction punishable pursuant to R.C. §§ 2929.21
and 2929.31, as such section may be amended or renumbered from time to time. In
addition, the City Attorney may, at the City Council’s direction, institute
civil actions to abate a public nuisance under this chapter.
(Ord. 43-21, passed 7-12-2021)
CHAPTER 93: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
93.01   Streets policy
§ 93.01 STREETS POLICY.
   (A)   The complete streets policy is incorporated and adopted by reference
as if set out in full herein. Copies are available through city offices.
   (B)   The complete streets policy shall be applicable to the planning and
design of all new transportation and complete streets improvements initiated
after the adoption hereof.
(Res. 2199, passed 10-23-2017)
CHAPTER 94: PARADES AND SPECIAL EVENTS
Section
   
94.01   Exhibition; permit required
   
94.02   Processions and parades; permit required
   
94.03   Blocking streets or sidewalks for exhibitions, processions or parades
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 EXHIBITION; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Each person, company, group or organization desiring to conduct, stage
or give an event, circus, festival, menagerie, carnival, sideshow or exhibition
on public property, or if there is necessity to close a public street, alley or
sidewalk in association with an exhibition or event on private property, shall
first obtain a permit issued by the City Manager and pay a permit fee of $50 or
an amount established by separate City Council ordinance.
   (B)   An applicant for a permit to conduct such an exhibition or event shall
apply to the City Manager for a permit no less than one week prior to the
activity for which the permit is required. Such application shall be sworn and
contain the following:
      (1)   Name of the sponsoring individual, company, group or organization
and if an individual, a statement that they not have been convicted of a felony
in any state;
      (2)   Name of the applicant authorized to submit the application;
      (3)   If a company, group or organization, the names of the
organization’s officers and their titles and a statement that neither the
company, group or organization nor any officer has been convicted of a felony
in any state;
      (4)   Copy of a liability insurance coverage in the amount of $1,000,000
per incident with the city named as an additional insured;
      (5)   Date(s) and time(s) of the exhibition or event for which the permit
is issued;
      (6)   Location of the exhibition, including, but not limited to, a site
drawing indicating, the required fenced in area if beer and/or wine service and
consumption are proposed and the location of vehicular barricades and
delineated areas;
      (7)   Type and name of exhibition or event;
      (8)   A statement that adequate sanitary facilities will be provided in
accordance with requirements of the City-County Health Department, if
necessary;
      (9)   A statement that the sponsor of the exhibition or event shall
provide grounds cleanup and restore the grounds where the exhibition or event
was held to the same condition as existed prior to the exhibition or event,
together with an acknowledgment and agreement that if the city is required to
perform grounds cleanup and restoration due to the sponsor’s failure to do so,
that the sponsor shall be responsible for any expense incurred by the city in
so doing; and
      (10)   A bond or other surety of $50 or in an amount determined by the
City Manager to be sufficient to cover replacement costs for public signage,
barricades or other devices or equipment used in association with the event.
   (C)   The City Manager shall review an application and issue a permit,
provided he or she deems that the exhibition or event for which the permit is
required meets the following criteria:
      (1)   Is in a suitable location;
      (2)   Is properly insured and bonded; and
      (3)   Has no applicants or officers with a felony record in any state.
   (D)   No permit shall be issued for any exhibition or event for more than
seven consecutive days unless otherwise permitted by City Council.
   (E)   No person, company, group or organization shall sell or otherwise
provide any intoxicating liquor, beer or wine on any public property, street,
alley or sidewalk in association with a permit issued under this section unless
in an area delineated and approved by the State Department of Commerce,
Division of Liquor Control and within the area of the public square. For
administrative purposes of this section, the public square shall be defined as
the street and fountain area of the Nelsonville Public Square, but not
including any public sidewalk or any portion of Washington Street or Columbus
Street. Any violation of this division (E) by any person, company, group or
organization associated with permit issued under this section shall cause such
permit to be invalidated and immediately revoked.
   (F)   No person, company, group or organization shall conduct an exhibition
without a required permit.
(Prior Code, § 11.07.01) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 PROCESSIONS AND PARADES; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Each person, company, group or organization desiring to conduct a
procession or parade shall first obtain a permit from the Chief of Police with
a permit fee due in an amount established by separate ordinance.
   (B)   An applicant for a permit to conduct such a procession or parade shall
apply to the Chief of Police for a permit no less than one week prior to the
activity for which the permit is required. Such application shall be sworn and
contain the following:
      (1)   Name of the sponsoring individual, company, group or organization;
      (2)   Name of the applicant authorized to submit the application;
      (3)   The exact route of the procession or parade; and
      (4)   Date and time of the procession or parade and the direction of
march or travel for which the permit is required.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to conduct a procession or parade in violation of
this section except such provisions shall not apply to marches or maneuvers of
military forces of the United States.
   (D)   No person, company, group or organization shall conduct a procession
or parade without a required permit.
(Prior Code, § 11.07.02) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 BLOCKING STREETS OR SIDEWALKS FOR EXHIBITIONS, PROCESSIONS OR PARADES.
   No person, company, group or organization shall block or hinder any public
street, alley or sidewalk for purposes of an exhibition, procession or parade
without having first obtained a required permit.
(Prior Code, § 11.07.03) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Whosoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(Prior Code, § 11.07.99)
CHAPTER 95: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
   
95.01   Fires and burning permits
   
95.02   Definitions
   
95.03   Relation to other prohibitions
   
95.04   Open burning
   
95.05   Permission to individuals and notification to the State EPA
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 FIRES AND BURNING PERMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to kindle or authorize another
person to kindle a fire in the open air within the city without making a
written application for and obtaining a burning permit from the Fire Chief of
the city, as hereinafter provided. This section is not intended to and shall
not apply to the kindling of a fire in a covered metal container or incinerator
of not more than two-inch mesh; in a Dutch oven, outdoor fireplace or grill
with not less than two inch mesh screen or grating on the opening and chimney,
the same of a design and construction approved by the Chief of the Fire
Department of the city; or in a charcoal grill. Under no circumstances shall
any fire be kindled in the outdoors in any street or alley.
   (B)   No garbage shall be burned or kindled in the open air or in an outdoor
container, incinerator, dutch oven, outdoor fireplace or grill or charcoal
grill or other container or device. Garbage shall be defined as refuse animal
and vegetable matter from a kitchen, the burning or which gives off noxious
fumes or odors.
   (C)   The City Fire Chief be, and he or she is hereby authorized, empowered
and directed to accept applications for, and issue burning permits herein
provided. Every applicant for a burning permit shall submit to the City Fire
Chief a written application stating the reason or purpose of the intended fire,
when and where he or she expects to kindle such fire, what implements and other
safeguards will be immediately available to control such fire, and such other
information as the City Fire Chief may require in order to carry into effect
the duties imposed upon him or her by the terms and provision of this chapter.
   (D)   The City Fire Chief shall issue a burning permit to any applicant when
he or she is satisfied that there is good reason for such intended fire; that
prevailing weather conditions will not cause such fire to be hazardous; that no
injury or damage to life or property is likely to occur by reason of such fire;
where and when such fire will be kindled; that such fire will not be nearer
than 50 feet to any building or other structure; that applicant will
immediately have available implements and other safeguards to control such
fire; and that applicant or his or her agents and employees will be present at
such fire at all times. In the event of the falsification of any of the
information contained in an application for a burning permit, or the violation
of any of the terms and provisions of any burning permit issued, the Fire Chief
may, without notice, cancel, revoke or render void such burning permit.
(Prior Code, § 9.16.01) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL WASTE. Any waste material generated by crop, horticultural or
livestock production practices, and includes such items as woody debris and
plant matter from stream flooding, bags, cartons, structural materials and
landscape wastes that are generated in agricultural activities, but does not
include land-clearing waste; buildings; garbage; dead animals; animal waste;
motor vehicles and parts thereof; nor economic poisons and containers thereof,
unless the manufacturer has identified open burning as a safe disposal
procedure.
   AVAILABILITY. The materials incorporated by reference are available as
follows:
      (1)   National Fire Protection Association. Information on the National
Protection Association codes may be obtained by contacting the association at 1
Batterymarch Park, Quincy, Massachusetts 02169-7471, 617-770-3000. Codes may be
ordered www.nfpa.org/catalog/home/index. asp. Copies of the code at most public
libraries and “The State Library of Ohio”;
      (2)   Incorporated materials; and
      (3)   NFPA publication 1403; “Standard on Live Fire Training Evolutions,
Chapter 4, Acquired Structures”; November 2001 Edition.
   BONFIRE. An outdoor fire utilized for ceremonial purposes that is larger
than a recreational fire.
   ECONOMIC POISONS. Includes but are not restricted to pesticides such as
insecticides, fungicides, rodenticides, miticides, nematocides and fumigants;
herbicides; seed disinfectants; and defoliants.
   EMERGENCY BURNING. The burning of clean wood waste or deceased animals
caused by a natural disaster or an uncontrolled event, such as the following:
      (1)   A tornado;
      (2)   High winds;
      (3)   An earthquake;
      (4)   An explosion;
      (5)   A flood; or
      (6)   A hail storm, a rain storm or an ice storm.
   GARBAGE. Any waste material resulting from the handling, processing,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food or food products.
   LANDSCAPE WASTE. Any plant waste material, except garbage, including trees,
tree trimmings, branches, stumps, brush, weeds, leaves, grass, shrubbery, yard
trimmings and crop residues.
   LAND CLEARING WASTE. Plant waste material which is removed from land,
including plant waste material removed from stream banks during projects
involving more than one property owner, for the purpose of rendering the land
useful for residential, commercial or industrial development. LAND CLEARING
WASTE also includes the plant waste material generated during the clearing of
land for new agricultural development.
   INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE. This chapter includes references to certain
matter or materials. The text of the incorporated materials is not included in
the regulations contained in this chapter. The materials are hereby made a part
of the regulations in this chapter. For materials subject to change, only the
specific version specified in the regulation is incorporated. Material is
incorporated as it exists on the effective date of this rule. Except for
subsequent annual publication of existing (unmodified) Code of Federal
Regulation compilations, any amendment or revision to a referenced document is
not incorporated unless and until this rule has been amended to specify the new
dates.
   STATE EPA. The Ohio Environmental Protection Agency Director or agencies
delegated authority by the Director of the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency
pursuant to R.C. § 3704.03 or the chief of any Ohio Environmental Protection
Agency district office.
   OPEN BURNING. The burning of any materials wherein air contaminants
resulting from combustion are emitted directly into the ambient air without
passing through a stack or chimney. OPEN BURNING includes the burning of any
refuse or salvageable material in any device not subject to or designed
specifically to comply with the requirements of Rule 3745-17-09 or 374517-10 of
the O.A.C.
   PATIO APPLIANCES. Appliances including any devices designed to burn wood and
have a total fuel area of three feet or less in diameter and two feet or less
in height for pleasure, cooking, warmth or similar purposes. PATIO APPLIANCES
may be portable or stationery and includes outdoor fireplaces.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE. Outdoor fire burning materials other than rubbish where
the fuel being burned is not contained in an incinerator, outdoor fireplace,
barbecue grill or barbecue pit and has a total fuel area of three feet or less
in diameter and two feet or less in height for pleasure, religious, ceremonial,
cooking, warmth or similar purposes. RECREATIONAL FIRES include campfires and
any fires burned in makeshift devices for the above purposes.
   RESIDENTIAL WASTE. Any waste material, including landscape wastes, generated
on a one-, two- or three-family residence as a result of residential
activities, but not including garbage.
(Prior Code, § 9.16.02)
§ 95.03 RELATION TO OTHER PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any provision in O.A.C. Chapter 3745-19 or this
chapter, no open burning shall be conducted in an area where an air alert,
warning or emergency under O.A.C. Chapter 3745-25 is in effect. Open burning
that is offensive or objectionable because of smoke or odor emissions or when
atmospheric conditions or local circumstances make such fires hazardous shall
be prohibited.
   (B)   No provisions of O.A.C. Chapter 3745-19 or this chapter permitting
open burning, and no permission to open burn granted by the State EPA, shall
exempt any person from compliance with any section of the R.C., or any
regulation of any state department, or any local ordinance or regulation
dealing with open burning.
   (C)   The fire code official, in addition to issuing citations for violation
of this chapter, is also authorized to order the extinguishment by a permit
holder or any other person responsible for open burning that creates or adds to
a hazardous or objectionable situation.
(Prior Code, § 9.16.03)
§ 95.04 OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   No person or property owner shall cause or allow open burning in the
city except as provided in §§
95.03 to
95.05 or in R.C. § 3704.11.
   (B)   Open burning shall be allowed for the following purposes without
notification to or permission from the State EPA:
      (1)   Heating tar, welding, acetylene torches, highway safety flares,
heating for warmth of outdoor workers and strikers, smudge pots and similar
occupational needs; and
      (2)   Campfires, recreational fires, including outdoor fires in fireplace
equipment or patio appliances, whether for cooking food for human consumption,
pleasure, religious, ceremonial, warmth, recreational or similar purposes, if
the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The fires are fueled with clean seasoned firewood, natural gas
or equivalent, or any clean burning fuel with emissions that are equivalent to
or lower than those created from the burning of seasoned firewood;
         (b)   The fires are not used for waste disposal purposes;
         (c)   The fires shall have a total fuel area of three feet or less in
diameter and two feet or less in height; and
         (d)   The fires are constantly attended by a person at least 18 years
of age until the fire is extinguished. A minimum of one portable fire
extinguisher complying with Paragraph F 906 of Rule 1301:7-7-09 of the O.A.C.
with a minimum 4-A rating or other approved on-site fire extinguishing
equipment such as dirt, sand, water barrel, garden hose or water truck shall be
available for immediate utilization;
         (e)   If the fire is a campfire, recreation fire or outdoor fire in
fireplace equipment, the fire must be located no closer than 25 feet from any
structure and provisions are made to prevent the fire from spreading to within
25 feet of a structure; and
         (f)   If the fire is in a patio appliance, then in addition to the
requirements of (B)(2)(a), (B)(2)(b), (B)(2)(c) and (B)(2)(d) above, the
following conditions must also be met:
            1.   The fire may not be within 15 feet of a structure including a
combustible deck or patio, excepting patio appliances that incorporate a screen
encompassing all open areas of the burn chamber and are designed to prevent
ignition through conduction through its base may be placed on a combustible
deck. However, the appliance shall be at least 15 feet from any other structure
including the structure that it is attached to;
            2.   Disposal of hazardous explosive materials, military munitions
or explosive devices that require immediate action to prevent endangerment of
human health, public safety, property or the environment and that are excluded
from the requirement to obtain a hazardous waste permit pursuant to paragraph
(D)(1)(d) of Rule 3745-50-45 of the O.A.C.; and
            3.   Recognized training in the use of fire extinguishers for
commercial or industrial fire prevention.
   (C)   Open burning shall be allowed for the following purposes with prior
notification to the State EPA in accordance with paragraph (B) of Rule 3745-19-
05 of the O.A.C.:
      (1)   Prevention or control of disease or pests, with written or verbal
verification to the State EPA from the local health department, cooperative
extension service, State Department of Agriculture or U.S. Department of
Agriculture, that open burning is the only appropriate disposal method;
      (2)   Bonfires or campfires used for ceremonial purposes that do not meet
the standards of division (B)(2) above, provided the following conditions are
met:
         (a)   Bonfires have a total fuel area no greater than five feet in
diameter by five feet in height and burn no longer than three hours;
         (b)   Bonfires are not used for waste disposal purposes;
         (c)   Bonfires are fueled with clean seasoned firewood, natural gas or
equivalent or any clean burning fuel with emissions that are equivalent to or
lower than those created from the burning of seasoned firewood; and
         (d)   Bonfires shall not be conducted within 50 feet of a structure or
combustible material unless the fire is in a barbecue pit. Conditions which
could cause a fire to spread within 50 feet of a structure shall be eliminated
prior to ignition.
      (3)   Disposal of agricultural waste generated on the premises if the
following conditions are observed:
         (a)   The fire is set only when atmospheric conditions will readily
dissipate contaminants;
         (b)   The fire does not create a visibility hazard on the roadways,
railroad tracks or air fields;
         (c)   The fire is located at a point on the premises no less than
1,000 feet from any inhabited building not located on said premises;
         (d)   The wastes are stacked and dried to provide the best practicable
condition for efficient burning; and
         (e)   No materials are burned which contain rubber, grease, asphalt or
liquid petroleum products.
   (D)   Open burning shall be allowed for the following purposes upon receipt
of written permission from the Ohio EPA, in accordance with paragraph (A) of
Rule 3745-19-05 of the O.A.C., provided that any conditions specified in the
permission are followed:
      (1)   Disposal of ignitable or explosive materials where the State EPA
determines that there is no practical alternate method of disposal, excluding
those materials identified in paragraph (B)(3) of this rule;
      (2)   Instruction in methods of fire fighting or for research in the
control of fires as recognized by the State Fire Marshal Division of the State
Department of Commerce and the guidelines set forth in the National Fire
Protection Association’s (NFPA) publication 1403: Standard on Live Fire
Training Evolutions, Chapter 4, Acquired Structures, provided that the
application required in paragraph (A)(1) of Rule 3745-19-05 is submitted by the
commercial or public entity responsible for the instruction;
      (3)   In emergency or other extraordinary circumstances for any purpose
determined to be necessary by the Director and performed as identified in the
appendix of this rule. If deemed necessary, the open burning may be authorized
with prior oral approval by the Director followed by the issuance of a written
permission to open burn within seven working days of the oral approval;
      (4)   Recognized horticultural, silvicultural, range or wildlife
management practices; and
      (5)   Fires and/or pyrotechnic effects, for purposes other than waste
disposal, set as part of commercial film making or video production activities
for motion pictures and television.
(Prior Code, § 9.16.04)
§ 95.05 PERMISSION TO INDIVIDUALS AND NOTIFICATION TO THE STATE EPA.
   (A)   Permission.
      (1)   An application for permission to open burn, if required, shall be
submitted, in writing, at least ten working days before the fire is to be set.
Saturday, Sunday and legal holidays shall not be considered a working day. It
shall be in such form and contain such information as required by the State
EPA.
      (2)   Except as provided in divisions (A)(6) and (A)(7) below, such
applications shall contain, at a minimum, information regarding:
         (a)   The purpose of the proposed burning;
         (b)   The nature of quantities of material to be burned;
         (c)   The date or dates when such burning will take place;
         (d)   The location of the burning site, including a map showing
distances to residences, populated areas, roadways, air fields and other
pertinent landmarks; and
         (e)   The methods or actions which will be taken to reduce the
emissions of air contaminants.
      (3)   Permission to open burn shall not be granted unless the applicant
demonstrates to the satisfaction of the State EPA that open burning is
necessary to the public interest; will be conducted in a time, place and manner
as to minimize the emission of air contaminants; and will have no serious
detrimental effect upon adjacent properties or the occupants thereof. The State
EPA may impose such conditions as may be necessary to accomplish the purpose of
Chapter 3745-19 of the O.A.C.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (A)(6) below, permission to open
burn must be obtained for each specific project. In emergencies where public
health or environmental quality will be seriously threatened by delay while
written permission is sought, the fire may be set with oral permission of the
State EPA.
      (5)   Violations of any of the conditions set forth by the State EPA in
granting permission to open burn shall be grounds for revocation of such
permission and refusal to grant future permission, as well as for the
imposition of other sanctions provided by law.
      (6)   The State Department of Commerce, Division of State Fire Marshal,
may request permission to open burn on an annual basis for the purpose of
training firefighters on pre-flashover conditions using the state fire
academy’s mobile training laboratory at either the academy or at other training
sites in the state. The annual application required pursuant to division (A)(1)
above shall contain information as required in division (A)(2) above except the
information required in divisions (A)(2) and (A)(2)(d) above need not be
provided unless it is available at the time of submittal of the application.
The academy shall contact the appropriate State EPA district office or local
air agency at least five working days before each training session of the date
or dates when the training session will take place and its location. Saturday,
Sunday and legal holidays shall not be considered a working day.
      (7)   For open burning defined under paragraph (D)(2) of Rule 3745-19-03
and paragraph (C)(2) of Rule 3745-19-04 of the O.A.C., permission to open burn
shall not be granted unless the applicant provides proof of written notice of
intent to demolish received by the appropriate State EPA field office in
accordance with Rule 3745-20-03 of the O.A.C.
   (B)   Notification.
      (1)   Notification shall be submitted in writing at least ten working
days before the fire is to be set. Saturday, Sunday and legal holidays shall
not be considered a working day. It shall be in such form and contain such
information as shall be required by the State EPA.
      (2)   Such notification shall inform the Ohio EPA regarding:
         (a)   The purpose of the proposed burning;
         (b)   The nature and quantities of materials to be burned;
         (c)   The date or dates when such burning will take place; and
         (d)   The location of the burning site.
   (3)   The State EPA, after receiving notification, may determine that the
open burning is not allowed under O.A.C. Chapter 3745-19 and the State EPA
shall notify the applicant to this effect.
(Prior Code, § 9.16.05)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found guilty of violating any of the terms and provisions
of this chapter shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $100.
(Prior Code, § 9.16.01)
   (B)   Whosoever violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree, and shall be fined not more than $500 or
imprisoned not more than 60 days, or both.
(Prior Code, § 9.16.99)
CHAPTER 96: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Abandoned vehicles and abandoned junk motor vehicles
   
96.03   Disposition of abandoned junk motor vehicles
   
96.04   Impounding of motor vehicles or junk motor vehicles on private property
   
96.05   Disposition of abandoned motor vehicles
   
96.06   Disposition of unclaimed motor vehicles
   
96.07   Collector’s vehicles
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle meeting all of the following
requirements:
      (1)   Left on private property for more than 48 hours or on a public
street or other property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking for more than 48 hours, or upon or within the right-of-way of any road
or highway for more than 48 hours; and
      (2)   Meeting the requirements as outlined in paragraph (E) above.
   AUTOMOBILE SALVAGE YARD. A place of business which is maintained, used or
operated for the sole purpose of storing, keeping, buying or selling wrecked or
scrapped, ruined or dismantled motor vehicles or motor vehicle parts. It does
not include an automobile body shop or an automobile service station.
   JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle meeting all of the following
requirements:
      (1)   Three years old or older;
      (2)   Extensively damaged, such damage including, but not limited to, any
of the following: a broken window or windshield, missing tire(s), wheel(s),
motor or transmission;
      (3)   Apparently inoperable; and
      (4)   Having a fair market value of $200 or less.
   JUNKYARD. An establishment or place of business which is maintained or
operated for the purpose of storing, keeping, buying or selling junk, or for
the maintenance or operation of any automobile graveyard, and includes garbage
dumps and sanitary landfills. For the purpose of this chapter, the term
JUNKYARD shall also include scrap metal processing facilities which are located
within 1,000 feet of the nearest edge of the right-of-way of state highway, and
any site, location or premises on which are kept two or more junk vehicles,
whether or not for a commercial purpose.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation or
organization of any kind.
   PROPERTY. Any real property within the city which is not a street or
highway.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   VEHICLE. A machine propelled by power other than human power designed to
travel along the ground by use of wheels or treads and transporting persons or
property or pulling machinery and includes, without limitations, automobiles,
trucks, trailers, buses, motorcycles and/or tractors.
(Prior Code, § 7.07.01)
§ 96.02 ABANDONED VEHICLES AND ABANDONED JUNK MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall willfully park, store, leave or consent to the parking
or storing on any public or private property in the city unlicensed, unused,
wrecked, partly dismantled or abandoned junk motor vehicles or any other motor
vehicle which is not in operating condition except in an enclosed building or
garage, or in a duly licensed junkyard; or towing service yard for a period not
to exceed 30 days. The absence of current license plates from any such motor
vehicle shall be prima facie evidence that the same is unlicensed and not in
operating condition.
   (B)   The City Manager, or his or her agent, or the Chief of Police, may
send notice, by certified mail with return receipt requested, to the person
having the right to the possession of the property on which a junk motor
vehicle is left, that within ten days of receipts of the notice, the junk motor
vehicle either shall be covered by being housed in a garage or other suitable
structure, or shall be removed from the property.
   (C)   No person shall willfully leave a junk motor vehicle uncovered in the
open for no more than ten days after receipt of a notice as provided in this
section. The fact that a junk motor vehicle is so left is prima-facie evidence
of willful failure to comply with the notice, and each subsequent period of 30
days that a junk motor vehicle continued to be left so constitutes a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 7.07.02) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.03 DISPOSITION OF ABANDONED JUNK MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall order any abandoned junk motor vehicle to be
photographed by a law enforcement officer in the place where abandoned. The
officer shall record the make of the motor vehicle, the serial number when
available and shall also detail the damaged or missing equipment to
substantiate the value of $1,500 or less. The Chief of Police shall thereupon
immediately dispose of the abandoned junk motor vehicle to a junkyard or scrap
metal processing facility as defined herein, or to any other facility under
contract with the city for the disposal of such motor vehicles. The records and
photographs relating to the abandoned junk motor vehicle shall be retained by
the City Police Department for a period of at least two years. The law
enforcement agency shall execute in quadruplicate an affidavit, as prescribed
by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, describing the subject motor vehicle and
the manner in which it was disposed of, indicating that all requirements of
this section have been complied with, and filing the same with the Clerk of
Courts of the county. The Clerk of Courts shall retain the original of the
affidavit for the files, furnish one copy thereof to the Registrar, one copy to
the junkyard or other facility handling the disposal of the vehicle, and one to
the City Police Department, who shall file such copy with the records and
photographs relating to the vehicle. Any monies arising from the disposal of an
abandoned junk motor vehicle in excess of the expenses resulting from the
removal of the vehicle shall be credited to the General Fund of the city. The
city assumes no liability for towing costs not covered by the sale of such
vehicle.
   (B)   If, at the expiration of five days, after any motor vehicle or
abandoned junk motor vehicle meeting the requirements of §
96.01(E) or (F), has been impounded, the owner, or other person empowered to
act therefor, has not contacted the Police Department, it shall be the duty of
the Police Department to notify, as soon as possible, either in person or by
certified mail with return receipt requested sent to the last known place
residence, the owner or any person known to the police to have charge of such
vehicle on behalf of the owner, or, if neither can be notified, any known
mortgagee of such vehicle, informing him or her of the nature and circumstances
of the violation for which such vehicle has been impounded and the rate of
storage charges.
   (C)   (1)   Any motor vehicle meeting the requirements of §
96.01(E) or (F), which has remained unclaimed by the owner or lien holder for a
period of ten days or longer following notification as provided for in division
(B) above, shall be disposed of as provided for in division (A) above.
      (2)   If the vehicle is to be disposed of to a motor vehicle salvage
dealer or other facility, the Chief of Police shall execute in triplicate an
affidavit, as prescribed by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, describing the
motor vehicle and the manner in which it was disposed of, and that all
requirements of this section have been complied with.
      (3)   The Sheriff or Chief of Police shall retain the original of the
affidavit for the Sheriff’s or Chief’s records, and shall furnish two copies to
the motor vehicle salvage dealer or other facility. Upon presentation of a copy
of the affidavit by the motor vehicle salvage dealer, the Clerk of Courts,
within 30 days of the presentation, shall issue to such owner a salvage
certificate of title, free and clear of all liens and encumbrances.
   (D)   (1)   The removal by a police officer of a motor vehicle, junk motor
vehicle, abandoned junk motor vehicle, unlicensed motor vehicle or inoperative
motor vehicle for any of the reasons stated in this chapter shall be at the
risk of the owner or person in charge of said vehicle, and there shall be no
liability on the part of the city for any damage caused by such removal.
      (2)   The storage of any such vehicle, when impounded by the city or by
order of its designated police officers or other officials, shall be at the
risk of the chauffeur, driver or owner thereof, and the city shall not be
liable for any damage of any nature or for the theft or destruction by fire or
otherwise of any property so impounded.
(Prior Code, § 7.07.03)
§ 96.04 IMPOUNDING OF MOTOR VEHICLES OR JUNK MOTOR VEHICLES ON PRIVATE
PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person in charge or control of any private property within the
corporation limits of the city, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or
otherwise, shall leave or suffer to remain on his or her said property
licensed, unused, wrecked, partly dismantled, inoperative and/or abandoned
vehicle, whether owned by him or her or another person, except in an enclosed
building in a duly licensed junkyard.
   (B)   Any motor vehicle parked or stored in violation of division (A) above,
other than an abandoned junk motor vehicle as defined in §
96.01(F) and vehicles in a towing service yard as specifically regulated in §§
96.02(A) and 96.06 shall, after ten days, be removed to a motor vehicle pound
or any other place of storage by order of the City Manager of the city or his
or her agent or the Chief of Police, and shall not be released except upon
payment of towing and storage charges and fines as specified in §
96.99. The absence of current license plates from any such motor vehicle shall
be prima facie evidence that the same is unlicensed and not in operating
condition.
   (C)   The fact that an unlicensed motor vehicle is so left is prima facie
evidence of willful failure to comply with §§
96.02(A) and/or
96.04(A), and each subsequent period of 30 days after notification to remove
such vehicle, that such vehicle continues to be left constitutes a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 7.07.04) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.05 DISPOSITION OF ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   An unclaimed motor vehicle ordered into storage pursuant to §
96.02 or §
96.07 subject to one of the following:
      (1)   The Police Chief may dispose of it with a motor vehicle salvage
dealer or scrap metal processing facility, as defined in R.C. § 4737.05, or
with any other facility owned by or under contract with the municipality for
the disposal of such motor vehicles;
      (2)   The Police Chief or a licensed auctioneer may sell the motor
vehicle at public auction, after giving notice thereof by advertisement,
published once a week for two successive weeks in a newspaper of general
circulation in the county or as provided in R.C. § 7.16; or
      (3)   A towing service or storage facility may obtain title to the motor
vehicle in accordance with R.C. § 4505.104.
   (B)   Any monies accrued pursuant to division (A)(1) or (A)(2) above that
are in excess of the expenses resulting from the removal and storage of the
vehicle shall be credited to the general fund of the municipality.
(R.C. § 4513.62) (Prior Code, § 7.07.05)
§ 96.06 DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   Any vehicle ordered into storage under §
76.29 in substantial compliance with §§ 7.06.15, 7.06.16, 7.06.17, 7.06.20 and/
or 7.06.21, other than an abandoned junk motor vehicle as defined in §
96.02(F), which has been left as a garage or place of storage for a period
longer than 30 days, shall be taken to a city lot as designated by the City
Manager and disposed of in compliance with §§
96.03(A) or
96.05 at the discretion of the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 7.07.06)
§ 96.07 COLLECTOR’S VEHICLES.
   No person shall be prevented from storing or keeping, or restricted in the
method of storing or keeping, any collector’s vehicle on private property with
the permission of the person having the right to the possession of the
property, except that a person having such permission shall be required to
conceal, by means of an enclosed building, garage or other suitable enclosure,
any unlicensed collector’s vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 7.07.07) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.30 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Whoever violates §
96.02 is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on their first offense, a fourth degree
misdemeanor if the person has on prior conviction of this offense and a third
degree misdemeanor if the person has two or more prior convictions.
(Prior Code, § 7.07.02)
   (C)   Whoever violates §§
96.02 to
96.04 is guilty of a minor misdemeanor as defined in R.C. § 2929.21 for the
first offense. Each subsequent offense under §
96.02 may be brought as fourth degree misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 7.09.99)
CHAPTER 97: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
General Provisions
   
97.001   Purpose
   
97.002   Definitions
   
97.003   Compliance required; existing installations
Licensing
   
97.015   Contents of license application
   
97.016   Issuance of license
   
97.017   License fee
   
97.018   Renewal of business license
   
97.019   License not transferable
   
97.020   Suspension and revocation of license
   
97.021   Appeals
Permit
   
97.035   User’s permit required
   
97.036   User’s permit fees
   
97.037   User’s permit application
   
97.038   User’s responsibility
False Alarms
   
97.050   Suspension of penalties for false alarms from new systems
   
97.051   False alarms; records
   
97.052   Alarm validity determination
   
97.053   Appeal of alarm validity determination
   
97.054   Administrative fee for multiple false alarms
   
97.055   Disconnection and disruption of service
   
97.056   Alarm system reconnection and reestablishment of alarm response
Alarm Requirements
   
97.070   Other alarm system provisions
   
97.071   Prohibited alarms
   
97.072   Testing
   
97.073   Signals originating outside corporate limits
   
97.074   Limitation of liability
   
97.075   Change of location
   
97.076   Enforcement
 
   
97.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 97.001 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the police and fire
emergency services of the city from misuse.
   (B)   This chapter governs and regulates alarm systems, alarm users and
alarm businesses. It establishes fees and provides for licensing of alarm
businesses, suspension and revocation of licenses, penalties for violation and
penalties for excessive false alarms.
(Prior Code, § 11.06.01)
§ 97.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM BUSINESS. The business of any individual, partnership, corporation or
other entity selling, leasing, monitoring, maintaining, servicing, repairing,
altering, replacing, moving or installing any alarm system or causing to be
sold, leased, monitored, maintained, serviced, repaired, altered, replaced,
moved or installed any alarm system in or on any building, structure or
facility.
   ALARM RECEIVING EQUIPMENT. Any equipment, by design, that receives a signal
from an alarm system reporting alarm activation.
   ALARM SYSTEM. All types of assembly or equipment, mechanical or electrical,
arranged to signal the occurrence of an actual or attempted burglary, an actual
or attempted robbery, a medical emergency, a fire or any other activity
requiring urgent attention and to which the Police Department and/or Fire
Department are expected to respond. ALARM SYSTEM shall include any system
monitored by a central alarm monitoring station that reports alarm activation
to the Police Department and to which the Police Department and/or Fire
Department are expected to respond.
   ALARM USER. A person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company
or organization of any kind in control of any building, structure or facility
where an alarm system is maintained.
   APPLICANT. Any person, partnership, corporation or other entity that files
an application for a new or renewal license or permit as provided in this
chapter.
   AUTOMATIC DIALING DEVICE. A device, which is interconnected to a telephone
line and is programmed to select a predetermined telephone number and transmit
by voice message an emergency message indicating the need for an emergency
response.
   CALENDAR YEAR. A 12-month period beginning with the first day of January and
ending with the last day of December.
   DIGITAL COMMUNICATOR. A device, which is interconnected to a telephone line
and is programmed to select a predetermined telephone number that connects the
device with the alarm receiving equipment located at the Police Department,
transmits by a coded electronic signal an alarm number and indicates the type
of emergency response needed.
   FALSE ALARM. Any alarm condition which is registered at the Police
Department or Fire Department or elsewhere, which is not the result of an
actual or attempted criminal activity or problem otherwise requiring the
legitimate response of Police Department or Fire Department personnel of the
city.
      (1)   FALSE ALARMS include:
         (a)   Negligently or accidentally activated signals;
         (b)   Signals, which are the result of faulty, malfunctioning or
improperly installed, secured or maintained equipment;
         (c)   Signals which are the result of improperly installed, secured or
maintained windows or doors or similar general areas of the building; and
         (d)   Signals which are purposely activated to summon the Police
Department or Fire Department in non-emergency situations.
      (2)   Alarm conditions caused by the following extenuating circumstances
shall not constitute a false alarm:
         (a)   Signals, which result from storm conditions or other acts of
God;
         (b)   Signals being activated by persons working on the alarm system
with prior notice to the Police Department and/or Fire Department;
         (c)   Signals activated by disruption or disturbance of the telephone
or other communication services; and
         (d)   Signals activated willfully by alarm users upon good faith
belief, as determined by the city, that an actual or attempted crime or other
emergency has or is about to occur.
   LOCAL ALARMS. Those alarms which activate an audible signal within the
proximity of the premises only.
   PANIC ALARM BUTTON. A manually activated alarm system signaling an actual or
attempted burglary, an actual or attempted robbery, a medical emergency or a
fire.
   POLICE ALARM ADMINISTRATOR. The employee of the Police Department whose
responsibility is to coordinate the administration and documentation of alarm
businesses, alarm users and alarm system performance as it relates to the
effective enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11.06.02)
§ 97.003 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED; EXISTING INSTALLATIONS.
   (A)   No residence or business located within the city shall be equipped
with an emergency alarm system, except for interior smoke alarms, for the
purpose of detecting and signaling the presence of an actual or attempted
burglary, an actual or attempted robbery, a medical emergency or a fire, except
upon compliance with provisions hereinafter set forth.
   (B)   Existing installations shall be subject to the requirements of this
chapter, including those pertaining to permits.
(Prior Code, § 11.06.03) Penalty, see §
97.999
LICENSING
§ 97.015 CONTENTS OF LICENSE APPLICATION.
   An alarm business application shall contain the following information:
   (A)   The name, residence address, telephone number and Social Security
number of each individual owner or partner, or, if a corporation, of each
officer thereof, and the name, residence address and telephone number of the
manager or person to be responsible for the operation of the business if
different from the individual owner, partner or officer. The application will
have an attached list of names, addresses, telephone numbers and Social
Security numbers of every employee of the business who will engage in
installing, repairing, servicing, selling, leasing or maintaining the alarm
system;
   (B)   A description of the alarm systems and devices offered for sale or
lease to the public and a description of any service relating to alarm devices
offered to the public;
   (C)   A list of all felony and misdemeanor convictions of individual
proprietors, partners or directors and principal officers of the applicant
business. The date and location of each conviction shall also be included;
   (D)   A statement as to whether the applicant has ever been denied a license
or permit in any jurisdiction to engage in the alarm business or has had such
license or permit suspended or revoked;
   (E)   A statement as to the length of time the applicant had been engaged in
the alarm business and where engaged;
   (F)   A statement that the applicant agrees to update the above information
upon application for renewal of an alarm license annually as provided in this
chapter; and
   (G)   Certification that, within 60 days after the effective date of this
chapter, or upon receipt of notice of approval of a license application,
whichever date occurs later, a complete list of names and addresses of all
persons or businesses in the city to whom alarm systems have been sold and who
are currently under contract to the alarm business for service to said alarm
systems, on or after the effective date of this chapter, shall be maintained
for inspection by the Police Alarm Administrator during the course of his or
her official business.
(Prior Code, § 11.06.04)
§ 97.016 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The Police Alarm Administrator shall review each application for a
license and may conduct an investigation to determine whether the facts set
forth in the application are true. He or she shall, within 60 days after
receipt of an application for such license, either approve or deny issuance of
the same and, accordingly, forward written notification to the applicant of
said decision. A written notification of denial shall include the basis for
said denial. If the grounds for said denial are subject to correction, the
applicant shall be given ten days after receipt of such notice within which to
make the required correction.
   (B)   The Police Alarm Administrator shall deny the application for an alarm
business license if he or she finds that the applicant or any owner, principal
corporate officer or the individual having the authority and the responsibility
for the management and operation of the applicant’s alarm business within the
city has:
      (1)   Committed any act which, if committed by a licensee, would be
grounds for revocation of a license under §
97.020;
      (2)   While unlicensed, knowingly and willfully committed or aided and
abetted the commission of any act for which a license is required by this
chapter; or
      (3)   Been convicted in any jurisdiction of a felony or misdemeanor if
the Police Alarm Administrator finds that such conviction reflects unfavorably
on the fitness of the applicant to engage in the alarm business.
(Prior Code, § 11.06.05)
§ 97.017 LICENSE FEE.
   The initial license fee for an alarm business license is $25. For a renewal
license, the fee is $10. Payment of the fee shall accompany the application for
the initial license and/or the renewal of a license, and no part of such fees
shall be refundable.
(Prior Code, § 11.06.06)
§ 97.018 RENEWAL OF BUSINESS LICENSE.
   (A)   Application for renewal of an alarm business license shall be made
annually within 30 days immediately preceding December 31 of each year and
shall be accompanied by a non-refundable fee of $10. Application forms for the
renewal of a license shall be obtainable from the Police Alarm Administrator.
An applicant for renewal may continue to do business while the renewal
application is being processed.
   (B)   A license for an alarm business may not be renewed if the licensee or
any owner, partner, principal corporate officer or individual having the
authority and the responsibility for the management and operation of the alarm
business within the city is found to have:
      (1)   Violated any of the provisions of this chapter and rules or
regulations as set forth by the Police Alarm Administrator;
      (2)   Knowingly and willfully given any false information of a material
nature in connection with an application for a license or a renewal or
reinstatement of a license;
      (3)   Been convicted in any jurisdiction of a felony, if the Police Alarm
Administrator determines that such a conviction reflects unfavorably on the
fitness of the applicant to engage in the alarm business;
      (4)   Committed any act while the license was not in effect which would
be cause for the revocation of a license, or grounds for the denial of an
application for a license; or
      (5)   Committed any act, which would be grounds for suspension or
revocation under §
97.020.
   (C)   The Police Alarm Administrator shall, within 30 days after receipt of
an application to renew a license, either approve or deny the renewal of the
license and shall forward written notification of the decision to the
applicant. A notification that the renewal has been denied shall include the
basis for said denial.
(Prior Code, § 11.06.07)
§ 97.019 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   No alarm business license shall be transferable or assigned or used by any
person other than the one to whom it was issued.
(Prior Code, § 11.06.08) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.020 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   An alarm business license may be suspended or revoked by the Police
Alarm Administrator for any of the following causes.
      (1)   The license was knowingly obtained through any fraud or
misstatement.
      (2)   The business transactions of the alarm business licensee have been
marked by a practice of failure to perform contracts, dishonest business
dealings, fraud or bad faith.
      (3)   The licensee has failed to comply with any provisions of this
chapter, which the Police Alarm Administrator deems contrary to the intent and
purpose of this chapter.
      (4)   The licensee has been convicted in any jurisdiction of a felony or
misdemeanor, if the Police Alarm Administrator finds that such a conviction
reflects unfavorably on the fitness of the applicant to engage in the alarm
business.
   (B)   The suspension or revocation shall not take place until the Police
Alarm Administrator has notified the licensee, in writing, of the cause or
causes for such revocation or suspension. Such notice shall:
      (1)   Contain a brief statement of the facts relating to the revocation
or suspension;
      (2)   Advise the licensee of the procedure for appeal; and
      (3)   Be served upon the licensee in person or by leaving it at his or
her address as stated in the application for a license, or at the address on
file with the Police Alarm Administrator, or by certified or registered mail
addressed to the licensee at such address.
(Prior Code, § 11.06.09)
§ 97.021 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by the denial of an application or renewal or by
notice of suspension or revocation as provided in this chapter may appeal and
shall be granted a hearing on the matter by submitting a written request to the
City Manager within 15 days after the service of the denial, suspension or
revocation notice.
      (1)   If a hearing is requested, written notice of the time and place of
the hearing shall be served on the user by regular U.S. Mail at least ten days
prior to the date set for the hearing.
      (2)   The hearing shall be before the City Manager, or his or her
designee.
         (a)   The Chief of Police, or his or her designee, and the applicant
shall have the right to present written or oral evidence.
         (b)   The failure of the applicant or his or her representative to
appear and state his or her case at such hearing shall have the same effect as
if no appeal was filed.
   (B)   The proceeding at such hearings, including the findings and decisions
of the Service Director, or his or her designee, and the reasons for the
decisions, shall be summarized and reduced to writing and entered as a matter
of public record in the Police Department. The record shall also include a copy
of every notice.
   (C)   After the hearing, the City Manager, or his or her designee, may
sustain, modify or reverse the decision appealed in writing.
(Prior Code, § 11.06.10)
PERMIT
§ 97.035 USER’S PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)    Every alarm user in the city shall apply to the Police Alarm
Administrator of the Police Department for an alarm user’s permit for each
system in use. Applicants already employing an alarm system on the effective
date of this chapter shall submit an application for a permit no later than 90
days from the effective date of this chapter. Otherwise, the use of the alarm
system is prohibited until the permit is secured.
   (B)   If an alarm user has more than one alarm system protecting two or more
separate structures having different addresses, a separate permit shall be
required for each system.
   (C)   An alarm user’s permit is required for alarm users that employ a
central alarm monitoring company.
(Prior Code, § 11.06.11)
§ 97.036 USER’S PERMIT FEES.
   The initial permit fee for an alarm user’s permit and the renewal permit fee
is $20. Payment of the fee shall accompany the application for the initial
alarm user’s permit and/or the renewal of a permit, and no part of such fee
shall be refundable.
(Prior Code, § 11.06.12)
§ 97.037 USER’S PERMIT APPLICATION.
   The alarm user’s permit application shall include the following information:
   (A)   The name, address, zip code and telephone number of the protected
business or residential property;
   (B)   The name, address, zip code and telephone number of the alarm company,
if any, which installed or maintained the applicant’s alarm system;
   (C)   In case of a business entity, the names, addresses, zip codes and
telephone numbers of three responsible employees of the business who can be
contacted by the Police Department if needed;
   (D)   In case of a residential entity, the names, addresses, zip codes and
telephone numbers of at least three responsible persons who can be contacted by
the Police Department if needed; and
   (E)   Other information, such as special hazards or instructions, as
required.
(Prior Code, § 11.06.13)
§ 97.038 USER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   All equipment used in the installation of an alarm system shall meet
the applicable standards of the Underwriters’ Laboratories of the United
States, Factory Mutual, the National Fire Protection Association or other
recognized industry standards. The owner, installer or user may be required to
submit evidence of the reliability and suitability of the equipment to be
installed.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the alarm user to instruct employees
or others who may have occasion to activate an alarm that alarm systems are to
be activated only in emergency situations to summon an immediate police or fire
response. Alarm users shall also instruct appropriate employees or others as to
the operation of the alarm system, including setting, activating and resetting
of the alarm.
   (C)   Alarm users shall be responsible for seeing that alarm systems are
maintained in good working order and that defects that could cause false alarms
are promptly repaired.
(Prior Code, § 11.06.14) Penalty, see §
97.999
FALSE ALARMS
§ 97.050 SUSPENSION OF PENALTIES FOR FALSE ALARMS FROM NEW SYSTEMS.
   After the installation of a new alarm system in a business or residence, the
alarm user will have 14 days in which any false alarm received by the Police
Department will not be counted against the alarm user. This 14-day period will
allow the alarm user time to make necessary adjustments to the alarm system to
ensure proper operation.
(Prior Code, § 11.06.15)
§ 97.051 FALSE ALARMS; RECORDS.
   (A)   The Police Alarm Administrator shall monitor the number of false
alarms to which the Police Department and Fire Department respond, keeping
records of the same. Such records shall indicate the date of all false alarms
to which the Police Department or Fire Department responds, the name and
address of the alarm users of the system generating the false alarm, the time
of the false alarm and the weather conditions existing at the time of the false
alarm.
   (B)   When the Police Alarm Administrator records a false alarm from any of
the alarm premises within a calendar year, the procedure in §
97.052 will be followed.
(Prior Code, § 11.06.16)
§ 97.052 ALARM VALIDITY DETERMINATION.
   (A)   Whenever an alarm is activated, requiring an emergency response to the
location by the Fire Department or the Police Department, the officer in charge
at the location of the alarm shall inspect the areas protected by the system
and shall determine whether the emergency response was in fact required as
indicated by the alarm system.
   (B)   If the inspecting officer in charge at the location determines that
the signal is false, the officer in charge shall make a report of the false
alarm to the Police Alarm Administrator.
   (C)   The Police Alarm Administrator, after receiving a report of a false
alarm, shall notify the alarm user that a false alarm report was received. The
notification shall include:
      (1)   The date and time of the false alarm report;
      (2)   The number of false alarms received in the present calendar year;
      (3)   A copy of §
97.053; and
      (4)   A copy of §
97.054.
   (D)   The notification set forth in division (C) above shall be mailed to
the address of the alarm user as set forth in the permit by ordinary mail, if
four or less false alarms in the calendar year have occurred at the address of
the alarm system. Upon the fifth false alarm in any calendar year and all false
alarm reports thereafter, the Police Alarm Administrator shall notify the alarm
user by certified mail or personal service at the address of the alarm system.
(Prior Code, § 11.06.17)
§ 97.053 APPEAL OF ALARM VALIDITY DETERMINATION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of any false alarm report from the Police Alarm
Administrator, the alarm user may elect to respond, in writing, to explain the
actual cause of such alarm. Such response must be made within five days from
the date of receipt of the false alarm report. If the Police Alarm
Administrator upholds the false alarm determination, the alarm user will have
ten days from the date of notification in which to request an appeal.
   (B)   The City Manager, or his or her designee, shall hear appeals from the
alarm user on the issue of whether the alarm system in question activated a
false alarm, as determined by the officer in charge of such activated alarm.
   (C)   At the hearing, which must be concluded within ten days from the date
the request for the hearing is received, the alarm user shall have the right to
present evidence or testimony.
   (D)   The hearing officer shall make a decision as to whether to uphold or
disallow the false alarm report and will notify the alarm user and the Police
Alarm Administrator within ten days from the date the hearing is concluded.
(Prior Code, § 11.06.18)
§ 97.054 ADMINISTRATIVE FEE FOR MULTIPLE FALSE ALARMS.
   (A)   Alarm users shall be responsible for multiple false alarms sent by
alarm systems on premises under their control. The fees imposed shall be based
on the number of false alarms sent by the one alarm system within a calendar
year.
   (B)   There is hereby imposed on alarm users an administrative fee, based on
the cost of administration and police response to false alarms, as follows.
      (1)   For one through six false alarms, no fee shall be imposed.
      (2)   For seven through ten false alarms, a fee of $50 for each false
alarm shall be imposed.
      (3)   For the eleventh and any additional false alarms, a fee of $100 for
each false alarm received shall be imposed.
   (C)   If the alarm user changes to a central alarm monitoring company,
changes central alarm monitoring companies or changes to a direct line to the
Police Department, the alarm count will remain the same.
   (D)   No fee shall be imposed until five days after written notification has
been sent to the alarm user that a false alarm has been recorded against the
alarm system.
   (E)   Any fee not paid within 30 days after it is imposed will result in the
alarm user being ordered to disconnect immediately.
   (F)   If an appeal of alarm validity determination is filed as outlined in §
97.053, the fee is due 30 days after the decision.
(Prior Code, § 11.06.19)
§ 97.055 DISCONNECTION AND DISRUPTION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   (1)   With the receipt of notice of the twelfth false alarm signal in
a given calendar year, or in the case of an alarm user who causes or permits a
high incidence of false alarms over a multi-calendar year period (i.e., six or
more false alarms per year), the Police Alarm Administrator shall inform the
alarm user that a show cause hearing will be scheduled before the City Manager.
      (2)   During the hearing, the alarm user must appear and show cause as to
why the city should not require the disconnection of the alarm system from the
alarm receiving equipment at the Police Department, or, if the user employs a
central alarm monitoring company, why the city should not discontinue response
to additional alarms when contacted by the alarm monitoring company.
   (B)   Following the hearing, the City Manager may order the disconnection of
the alarm equipment from the alarm receiving system of the city or instruct the
City Police Department and/or the Fire Department to ignore alarm signals from
the subject user when contacted by the alarm monitoring company. The City
Manager may also order other appropriate action, including, but not limited to,
placing the alarm user on a probationary status.
   (C)   No person shall fail to disconnect his or her alarm from the city’s
alarm receiving equipment after being so ordered by the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 11.06.20) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.056 ALARM SYSTEM RECONNECTION AND REESTABLISHMENT OF ALARM RESPONSE.
   (A)   When an alarm user has had his or her alarm equipment disconnected
from the city’s alarm receiving system, or where non-response to future alarms
from an alarm user has been ordered by the City Manager, the alarm user who
wishes to have service restored may apply for re-connection or restoration of
service under the following procedure.
      (1)   A written report shall be submitted to the Police Alarm
Administrator, detailing the action the alarm user and/or alarm business that
maintains the user’s equipment has taken to prevent future additional false
alarms.
      (2)   The Police Alarm Administrator shall review the submitted report
and determine the sufficiency of the response. If the response is deemed by the
Police Alarm Administrator to be sufficient, he or she shall make a
recommendation to the City Manager that service be reestablished.
      (3)   After receiving the report from the Police Alarm Administrator, the
City Manager shall conclude that service not be restored, be restored as
recommended by the Police Alarm Administrator or be restored upon the
satisfaction of further conditions that the Service Director may prescribe.
   (B)   The alarm user whose service is being restored shall pay an
administrative fee of $100 and be current with the payment of any and all past
false alarm fees before being permitted to reconnect or otherwise have service
re-established.
(Prior Code, § 11.06.21)
ALARM REQUIREMENTS
§ 97.070 OTHER ALARM SYSTEM PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Entrance/exit device. All police alarm installations incorporating an
entrance/exit device must permit a delay of 30 seconds minimum before actual
activation of the system.
   (B)   Digital communicator. All alarm systems that use a digital
communicator to contact the alarm receiving equipment at the Police Department
must call the telephone number designated by the Police Department.
   (C)   Local alarms. Local alarms shall not resemble the sound of any
emergency signal or civil defense alarm or siren. All local alarms shall have
the capacity to reset themselves after 15 minutes.
   (D)   Instructions. Every alarm business selling, leasing or furnishing any
user with an alarm system which is installed on premises located within the
city shall furnish the user with instructions, either printed or written, that
provide information to enable the user to operate the alarm system properly and
to obtain service for the alarm system at any time.
   (E)   Panic alarm buttons. Panic alarm buttons are to be used only to send a
manually-activated alarm to signal an actual or attempted assault, an actual or
attempted robbery, an actual or attempted burglary, a medical emergency or a
fire to the Police Department. The signal must comply with the following.
      (1)   (a)   The activation of a panic alarm is intended to signal the
Police Department of an emergency situation.
         (b)   Therefore, through the use of a device of this nature, the user
grants the right to conduct any lawful investigation deemed necessary to
investigate and verify the authenticity of the alarm.
      (2)   It shall be deemed a violation of this chapter if a panic alarm is
activated for anything other than that specified above.
   (F)   Application of section. Provisions outlined in divisions (B), (C) and
(E) above are in addition to the provision of §
97.035, which is applicable to all alarm users, alarm businesses and alarm
systems.
   (G)   Compliance by political subdivisions. All political subdivisions shall
be required to comply with all sections of this chapter, except that they shall
be exempt from paying any initial or renewal permit fees.
(Prior Code, § 11.06.22) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.071 PROHIBITED ALARMS.
   (A)   No person shall install, cause to be installed or permit to be
installed any alarm device, by whatever name known, which automatically selects
a telephone line for the purpose of playing a recorded message to report any
emergency on any telephone line dedicated to the Police Department.
   (B)   No supervision-type alarm systems will be monitored. Only alarm
systems that report the occurrence of an actual or attempted burglary, an
actual or attempted robbery, a medical emergency, a fire or other occurrence
requiring urgent attention and to which the Police Department or Fire
Department is expected to respond will be monitored by alarm receiving
equipment at the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 11.06.23) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.072 TESTING.
   Routine testing, not more frequent than once in a 30-day period and as
required for proper system maintenance, will be permitted; provided, however,
that immediately prior thereto, the police dispatcher is notified by telephone
of the test to assure it will not interfere with normal police function.
(Prior Code, § 11.06.24)
§ 97.073 SIGNALS ORIGINATING OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all emergency alarm devices
whose signal originates outside the corporate limits of the city, provided that
said signal terminates within the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 11.06.25)
§ 97.074 LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.
   The city shall not be liable for any of the alarm user’s losses or damages,
irrespective of origin, to person or to property, whether directly or
indirectly caused by performance or non-performance of the obligations imposed
by this chapter upon the city or by any negligent acts or omissions of the
city, its agents or employees. The alarm user’s application shall contain an
agreement with the city which, among other things, shall advise the alarm user
that the city is not an insurer of any loss; that the alarm user should obtain
its own insurance; that the permit fees set forth in §
97.036 are based upon the value of services offered by the city and such permit
fees are not related at all to the value of the property belonging to the alarm
user; that the city makes no warranty, expressed or implied, that the system it
installs or the services it furnishes will avert or prevent consequences.
(Prior Code, § 11.06.26)
§ 97.075 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   If the location of either or both of the police and fire communications
facilities should be changed at any time, permittees under this chapter shall
not charge or attempt to charge the city with any resulting cost of moving an
emergency alarm or any part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 11.06.27)
§ 97.076 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter may be by civil
action and/or criminal prosecution.
   (B)   Failure or omission to comply with any section or provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed a violation.
(Prior Code, § 11.06.28)
§ 97.999 PENALTY.
   Whosoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree and shall be fined not
more than $250 or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both, for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 11.06.99)
CHAPTER 98: IDENTITY THEFT
Section
   
98.01   Title
   
98.02   Purpose
   
98.03   Definitions
   
98.04   Findings
   
98.05   Process of establishing a covered account
   
98.06   Access to covered account information
   
98.07   Credit card payments
   
98.08   Sources and types of red flags
   
98.09   Prevention and mitigation of identity theft
   
98.10   Updating the program
   
98.11   Program administration
   
98.12   Outside service providers
   
98.13   Treatment of address discrepancies
   
98.14   Policy
   
98.15   Furnishing consumer’s address to consumer reporting agency
   
98.16   Methods of confirming consumer addresses
§ 98.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the identity theft prevention program.
(Prior Code, § 29.01.01)
§ 98.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to comply with 16 C.F.R. § 681.2 in order to
detect, prevent and mitigate identity theft by identifying and detecting
identity theft red flags and by responding to such red flags in a manner that
will prevent identity theft.
(Prior Code, § 29.02.01)
§ 98.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Nelsonville, Ohio.
   COVERED ACCOUNT.
      (1)   An account that a financial institution or creditor offers or
maintains, primarily for personal, family or household purposes, that involves
or is designed to permit multiple payments or transactions, such as a credit
card account, mortgage loan, automobile loan, margin account, cell phone
account, covered account, checking account or savings account.
      (2)   Any other account that the financial institution or creditor offers
or maintains for which there is a reasonably foreseeable risk to customers or
to the safety and soundness of the financial institution or creditor from
identity theft, including financial, operational, compliance, reputation or
litigation risks.
   CREDIT. The right granted by a creditor to a debtor to defer payment of debt
or to incur debts and defer its payment or to purchase property or services and
defer payment therefore.
   CREDITOR. Any person who regularly extends, renews or continues credit; any
person who regularly arranges for the extension, renewal or continuation of
credit; or any assignee of a original creditor who participates in the decision
to extend, renew or continue credit and includes covered companies and
telecommunications companies.
   CUSTOMER. A person that has a covered account with a creditor.
   IDENTITY THEFT. A fraud committed or attempted using identifying information
of another person without authority.
   PERSON. A natural person, a corporation, government or governmental
subdivision or agency, trust, estate, partnership, cooperative or association.
   PERSONAL IDENTIFYING INFORMATION. A person’s credit card account
information, debit card information, bank account information and drivers’
license information and for a natural person includes their Social Security
number, mother’s birth name and date of birth.
   RED FLAG. A pattern, practice or specific activity that indicates the
possible existence of identity theft.
   SERVICE PROVIDER. A person that provides a service directly to the city.
(Prior Code, § 29.03.01)
§ 98.04 FINDINGS.
   (A)   The city is a creditor pursuant to 16 C.F.R. § 681.2 due to its
provision or maintenance of covered accounts for which payment is made in
arrears.
   (B)   Covered accounts offered to customers for the provision of city
services include water and sewer services.
   (C)   The city’s previous experience with identity theft related to covered
accounts is as follows: none.
   (D)   The processes of opening a new covered account, restoring an existing
covered account and making payments on such accounts have been identified as
potential processes in which identity theft could occur.
   (E)   The city limits access to personal identifying information to those
employees responsible for or otherwise involved in opening or restoring covered
accounts or accepting payment for use of covered accounts. Information provided
to such employees is entered directly into the city’s computer system and is
not otherwise recorded.
   (F)   The city determines that there is a low risk of identity theft
occurring in the following ways:
      (1)   Use by an applicant of another person’s personal identifying
information to establish a new covered account;
      (2)   Use of a previous customer’s personal identifying information by
another person in an effort to have service restored in the previous customer’s
name;
      (3)   Use of another person’s credit card, bank account or other method
of payment by a customer to pay such customer’s covered account or accounts;
and
      (4)   Use by a customer desiring to restore such customer’s covered
account of another person’s credit card, bank account or other method of
payment.
(Prior Code, § 29.04.01)
§ 98.05 PROCESS OF ESTABLISHING A COVERED ACCOUNT.
   (A)   As a precondition to opening a covered account in the city, each
applicant shall provide the city with personal identifying information of the
customer containing a photograph of the customer or, for customers who are not
natural persons, a photograph of the customer’s agent opening the account. Such
information shall be entered directly into the city’s computer system and shall
not otherwise be recorded.
   (B)   Each account shall be assigned an account number and personal
identification number (PIN) which shall be unique to that account. The city may
utilize computer software to randomly assigned PINs and to encrypt account
numbers and PINs.
(Prior Code, § 29.05.01)
§ 98.06 ACCESS TO COVERED ACCOUNT INFORMATION.
   (A)   Access to customer accounts shall be password protected and shall be
limited to authorized city personnel.
   (B)   Such password(s) shall be changed by the director of the department
providing the service for which the covered account is created, or by the
director of information technology on a regular basis, shall be at least eight
characters in length and shall contain letters, numbers and symbols.
   (C)   Any unauthorized access to or other breach of customer accounts is to
be reported immediately to the City Manager and the password changed
immediately.
   (D)   Personal identifying information included in customer accounts is
considered confidential and any request or demand for such information shall be
immediately forwarded to the City Manager and the City Attorney.
(Prior Code, § 29.06.01)
§ 98.07 CREDIT CARD PAYMENTS.
   (A)   In the event that credit card payments that are made over the Internet
are processed through a third-party service provider, such third-party service
provider shall certify that it has an adequate identity theft prevention
program in place that is applicable to such payments.
   (B)   All credit card payments made over the telephone or the city’s website
shall be entered directly into the customer’s account information in the
computer database.
   (C)   Account statements and receipts for covered accounts shall include
only the last four digits of the credit or debit card or the bank account used
for payment of the covered account.
(Prior Code, § 29.07.01)
§ 98.08 SOURCES AND TYPES OF RED FLAGS.
   All employees responsible for or involved in the process of opening a
covered account, restoring a covered account or accepting payment for a covered
account shall check for red flags as indicators of possible identity theft and
such red flags may include:
   (A)   Alerts from consumer reporting agencies, fraud detection agencies or
service providers. Examples of alerts include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   A fraud or active duty alert that is included with a consumer
report;
      (2)   A notice of credit freeze in response to a request for a consumer
report;
      (3)   A notice of address discrepancy provided by a consumer reporting
agency; and
      (4)   Indications of a pattern of activity in a consumer report that is
inconsistent with the history and usual pattern of activity of an applicant or
customer, such as:
         (a)   A recent and significant increase in the volume of inquiries;
         (b)   An unusual number of recently established credit relationships;
         (c)   A material change in the use of credit, especially with respect
to recently established credit relationships; or
         (d)   An account that was closed for cause or identified for abuse of
account privileges by a financial institution or creditor.
   (B)   Suspicious documents. Examples of suspicious documents include:
      (1)   Documents provided for identification that appears to be altered or
forged;
      (2)   Identification on which the photograph or physical description is
inconsistent with the appearance of the applicant or customer;
      (3)   Identification on which the information is inconsistent with
information provided by the applicant or customer;
      (4)   Identification on which the information is inconsistent with
readily accessible information that is on file with the financial institution
or creditor, such as a signature card or a recent check; or
      (5)   An application that appears to have been altered or forged, or
appears to have been destroyed and reassembled.
   (C)   Suspicious personal identification, such as suspicious address change.
Examples of suspicious identifying information include:
      (1)   Personal identifying information that is inconsistent with external
information sources used by the financial institution or creditor. For example:
         (a)   The address does not match any address in the consumer report;
and
         (b)   The Social Security number (SSN) has not been issued, or is
listed on the Social Security Administration’s death master file.
      (2)   Personal identifying information provided by the customer is not
consistent with other personal identifying information provided by the
customer, such as a lack of correlation between the SSN range and date of
birth;
      (3)   Personal identifying information or a phone number or address, is
associated with known fraudulent applications or activities as indicated by
internal or third-party sources used by the financial institution or creditor;
      (4)   Other information provided, such as fictitious mailing address,
mail drop addresses jail addresses, invalid phone numbers, pager numbers or
answering services, is associated with fraudulent activity;
      (5)   The SSN provided is the same as that submitted by other applicants
or customers;
      (6)   The address or telephone number provided is the same as or similar
to the account number or telephone number submitted by an unusually large
number of applicants or customers;
      (7)   The applicant or customer fails to provide all required personal
identifying information on an application or in response to notification that
the application is incomplete;
      (8)   Personal identifying information is not consistent with personal
identifying information that is on file with the financial institution or
creditor; and
      (9)   The applicant or customer cannot provide authenticating information
beyond that which generally would be available from a wallet or consumer
report.
   (D)   Unusual use of or suspicious activity relating to a covered account.
Examples of suspicious activity includes:
      (1)   Shortly following the notice of a change of address for an account,
city receives a request for the addition of authorized users on the account;
      (2)   A new revolving credit account is used in a manner commonly
associated with known patterns of fraud patterns. For example: the customer
fails to make the first payment or makes an initial payment but no subsequent
payments;
      (3)   An account is used in a manner that is not consistent with
established patterns of activity on the account. There is, for example:
         (a)   Nonpayment when there is no history of late or missed payments;
and
         (b)   A material change in purchasing or spending patterns.
      (4)   An account that has been inactive for a long period of time is used
taking into consideration the type of account, the expected pattern of usage
and other relevant factor;
      (5)   Mail sent to the customer is returned repeatedly as undeliverable
although transactions continue to be conducted in connection with the
customer’s account;
      (6)   The city is notified that the customer is not receiving paper
account statements;
      (7)   The city is notified of unauthorized charges or transactions in
connection with a customer’s account; and
      (8)   The city is notified by a customer, law enforcement or another
person that it has opened a fraudulent account for a person engaged in identity
theft.
   (E)   Notice. Notice from customers, law enforcement, victims or other
reliable sources regarding possible identity theft or phishing relating to
covered accounts.
(Prior Code, § 29.08.01)
§ 98.09 PREVENTION AND MITIGATION OF IDENTITY THEFT.
   (A)   In the event that any city employee responsible for or involved in
restoring an existing covered account or accepting payment for a covered
account becomes aware of red flags indicating possible identity theft with
respect to existing covered accounts, such employee shall use his or her
discretion to determine whether such red flag or combination of red flags
suggests a threat of identity theft. If, in his or her discretion, such
employee determines that identity theft or attempted identity theft is likely
or probable, such employee shall immediately report such red flags to the
director of the department. If, in his or her discretion, such employee deems
that identity theft is unlikely or that reliable information is available to
reconcile red flags, the employee shall convey this information to the City
Manager, who may, in his or her discretion, determine that no further action is
necessary. If he or she, in his or her discretion, determines that further
action is necessary, a city employee shall perform one or more of the following
responses, as determined to be appropriate by the City Manager:
      (1)   Contact the customer;
      (2)   Make the following changes to the account if, after contacting the
customer, it is apparent that someone other than the customer has accessed the
customer’s covered account:
         (a)   Change any account numbers, passwords, security codes or other
security devices that permit access to an account; or
         (b)   Close the account.
      (3)   Cease attempts to collect additional charges from the customer and
decline to sell the customer’s account to a debt collector in the event that
the customer’s account has been accessed without authorization and such access
has caused additional charges to accrue;
      (4)   Notify a debt collector within 24 hours of the discovery of likely
or probable identity theft relating to a customer account that has been sold to
such debt collector in the event that a customer’s account has been sold to a
debt collector prior to the discovery of the likelihood or probability of
identity theft relating to such account;
      (5)   Notify law enforcement, in the event that someone other than the
customer has accessed the customer’s account causing additional charges to
accrue or accessing personal identifying information; or
      (6)   Take other appropriate action to prevent or mitigate identity
theft.
   (B)   In the event that any city employee responsible for, or involved in,
opening a new covered account becomes aware of red flags indicating possible
identity theft with respect to an application for a new account, such employee
shall use his or her discretion to determine whether such red flag or
combination of red flags suggests a threat of identity theft. If, in his or her
discretion, such employee determines that identity theft or attempted identity
theft is likely or probable, such employee shall immediately report such red
flags to the City Manager. If, in his or her discretion, such employee deems
that identity theft is unlikely or that reliable information is available to
reconcile red flag the employee shall convey this information to the City
Manager, who may, in his or her discretion, determine that no further action is
necessary. If, in his or her discretion, the City Manager determines that
further action is necessary, a city employee shall perform one or more of the
following responses, as determined to be appropriate by:
      (1)   Request additional identifying information from the applicant;
      (2)   Deny the application for the new account;
      (3)   Notify law enforcement of possible identity theft; or
      (4)   Take other appropriate action to prevent or mitigate identity
theft.
(Prior Code, § 29.09.01)
§ 98.10 UPDATING THE PROGRAM.
   (A)   The City Council shall annually review and, as deemed necessary by the
City Council, update the identity theft prevention program along with any
relevant red flags in order to reflect changes in risks to customers or to the
safety and soundness of the city and its covered accounts from identity theft.
   (B)   In so doing, the City Council shall consider the following factors and
exercise its discretion in amending the program:
      (1)   The city’s experiences with identity theft;
      (2)   Updates in methods of identity theft;
      (3)   Updates in customary methods used to detect, prevent and mitigate
identity theft;
      (4)   Updates in the types of accounts that the city offers or maintains;
and
      (5)   Updates in service provider arrangements.
(Prior Code, § 29.10.01)
§ 98.11 PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The City Manager is responsible for oversight of the program and for
program implementation. The City Manager is responsible for reviewing reports
prepared by staff regarding compliance with red flag requirements and with
recommending material changes to the program, as necessary in the opinion of
the City Manager, to address changing identity theft risks and to identify new
or discontinued covered types of covered accounts.
   (B)   Any recommended material changes to the program shall be submitted to
the City Council for consideration by the City Council.
      (1)   The Director of the Water and Sewer Department will report to the
City Manager at least annually, on compliance with the red flag requirements.
The report will address material matters related to the program and evaluate
issues, such as:
         (a)   The effectiveness of the policies and procedures of city in
addressing the risk of identity theft in connection with the opening of covered
accounts and with respect to existing covered accounts;
         (b)   Service provider arrangements;
         (c)   Significant incidents involving identity theft and management’s
response; and
         (d)   Recommendations for material changes to the program.
      (2)   The Director of the Water and Sewer Department is responsible for
providing training to all employees responsible for, or involved in, opening a
new covered account, restoring an existing covered account or accepting payment
for a covered account with respect to the implementation and requirements of
the identity theft prevention program. The Director of the Water and Sewer
Department shall exercise his or her discretion in determining the amount and
substance of training necessary.
(Prior Code, § 29.11.01)
§ 98.12 OUTSIDE SERVICE PROVIDERS.
   In the event that the city engages a service provider to perform an activity
in connection with one or more covered accounts, the Director of the Water and
Sewer Department shall exercise his or her discretion in reviewing such
arrangements in order to ensure, to the best of his or her ability, that the
service provider’s activities are conducted in accordance with policies and
procedures, agreed upon by contract, that are designed to detect any red flags
that may arise in the performance of the service provider’s activities and take
appropriate steps to prevent or mitigate identity theft.
(Prior Code, § 29.12.01)
§ 98.13 TREATMENT OF ADDRESS DISCREPANCIES.
   (A)   Treatment of address discrepancies. Pursuant to 16 C.F.R. § 681.1, the
purpose of this section is to establish a process by which the city will be
able to form a reasonable belief that a consumer report relates to the consumer
about whom it has requested a consumer credit report when the city has received
a notice of address discrepancy.
(Prior Code, § 29.13.01)
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CITY. The City of Nelsonville, Athens County, Ohio.
      NOTICE OF ADDRESS DISCREPANCY. A notice sent to a user by a consumer
reporting agency pursuant to 15 U.S.C. § 1681c(h)(l), that informs the user of
a substantial difference between the address for the consumer that the user
provided to request the consumer report and the address(es) in the agency’s
file for the consumer.
(Prior Code, § 29.13.02)
§ 98.14 POLICY.
   In the event that the city receives a notice of address discrepancy, the
city employee responsible for verifying consumer addresses for the purpose of
providing the municipal service or account sought by the consumer shall perform
one or more of the following activities, as determined to be appropriate by
such employee:
   (A)   Compare the information in the consumer report with:
      (1)   Information the city obtains and uses to verify a consumer’s
identity in accordance with the
requirements of the customer information program rules implementing 31 U.S.C. §
5318(l);
      (2)   Information the city maintains in its own records, such as
applications for service, change of address notices, other customer account
records or tax records; or
      (3)   Information the city obtains from third-party sources that are
deemed reliable by the relevant city employee.
   (B)   Verify the information in the consumer report with the consumer.
(Prior Code, § 29.14.01)
§ 98.15 FURNISHING CONSUMER’S ADDRESS TO CONSUMER REPORTING AGENCY.
   (A)   (1)   In the event that the city reasonably confirms that an address
provided by a consumer to the city is accurate, the city is required to provide
such address to the consumer reporting agency from which the city received a
notice of address discrepancy with respect to such consumer.
      (2)   This information is required to be provided to the consumer
reporting agency when:
         (a)   The city is able to form a reasonable belief that the consumer
report relates to the consumer about whom the city requested the report;
         (b)   The city establishes a continuing relation with the consumer;
and
         (c)   The city regularly and in the ordinary course of business
provides information to the consumer reporting agency from which it received
the notice of address discrepancy.
   (B)   Such information shall be provided to the consumer reporting agency as
part of the information regularly provided by the city to such agency for the
reporting period in which the city establishes a relationship with the
customer.
(Prior Code, § 29.15.01)
§ 98.16 METHODS OF CONFIRMING CONSUMER ADDRESSES.
   The city employee charged with confirming consumer addresses may, in his or
her discretion, confirm the accuracy of an address through one or more of the
following methods:
   (A)   Verifying the address with the consumer;
   (B)   Reviewing the city’s records to verify the consumer’s address;
   (C)   Verifying the address through third-party sources; or
   (D)   Using other reasonable processes.
(Prior Code, § 29.16.01)
CHAPTER 99: SHOPPING CARTS
Section
   
99.01   Adoption of shopping cart regulations
§ 99.01 ADOPTION OF SHOPPING CART REGULATIONS.
   The shopping cart regulations contained in Exhibit A to the ordinance
incorporated herein are adopted and incorporated hereto by reference.
(Ord. 36-20, passed 6-8-2020)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   LICENSE REQUIREMENTS
      
111.   LIQUOR CONTROL
      
112.   AUCTION AND SALES
      
113.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
114.   TAXICABS AND OTHER VEHICLES
      
115.   AMUSEMENTS
      
116.   CONTRACTORS
CHAPTER 110: LICENSE REQUIREMENTS
Section
Licensing
   
110.01   License required to engage in certain trades, businesses or
professions
   
110.02   Schedule of license fees
   
110.03   Application for license
   
110.04   Issuance of license
   
110.05   Date and duration of license
   
110.06   License not transferable
   
110.07   License certificate to be displayed
   
110.08   Revocation or suspension
   
110.09   Appeal and review
Collection Agencies
   
110.20   License; bond
   
110.21   Definitions
   
110.22   Exceptions
LICENSING
§ 110.01 LICENSE REQUIRED TO ENGAGE IN CERTAIN TRADES, BUSINESSES OR
PROFESSIONS.
   No person shall engage in any of the trades, businesses or professions for
which licenses are required by Title XI or by any other ordinance or provision
of the city code without first applying for and obtaining a license from the
City Manager or other duly authorized issuing authority.
(Prior Code, § 11.10.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.02 SCHEDULE OF LICENSE FEES.
   Before granting such license, the City Treasurer, unless otherwise directed
by lawful authority, shall collect the license fees prescribed below or
elsewhere in this code for the trades, businesses and professions requiring
licenses as provided in the respective sections of this city code. Unless
otherwise specified, the term of each license shall be for the calendar year.
License Classification Section Fee
License Classification         Section Fee
Alarm systems                  §      $25/$10 (initial/renew)
                               97.017
Auction of jewelry             §      $25 (30 days)
                               112.01
Collection agencies            §      $10
                               110.20
Commercial amusement           §      $50
                               115.01
Contractor registration        §      $25
                               116.06
Rental registration            §      $30
                               155.08
Taxicabs, each                 §      $50
                               114.02
Transient vendor and solicitor §      $5/$25 (day/month)
                               113.02
 
(Prior Code, § 11.10.02)
§ 110.03 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   All original applications for licenses, unless otherwise specifically
provided, shall be made to the City Treasurer in writing on forms to be
furnished by him or her and shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the applicant and of each officer, partner or business
associate;
      (2)   His or her present occupation and place of business;
      (3)   His or her place of residence for five years next preceding the
date of application;
      (4)   The nature and location of the intended business or enterprise;
      (5)   The period of time for which the license is desired;
      (6)   If for a vendor, a description of the merchandise to be sold; and
      (7)   Such other information concerning the applicant and his or her
business as may be reasonable and proper, having regard to the nature of the
license desired.
   (B)   Renewal of an annual license may be granted to a licensee in good
standing upon the original application, unless otherwise provided.
   (C)   With each original or renewal application, the applicant shall deposit
the fee required for the license requested.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful knowingly to make any false statement or
representation in said application.
(Prior Code, § 11.10.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.04 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   Upon receipt of such application for a license, accompanied by the proper
fee, if approval by another officer or department is not required, the City
Treasurer shall forthwith deposit the fee in the City Treasury and issue to the
applicant a proper license certificate signed by such City Treasurer with a
certificate as to the amount paid. If, for any reason, the license is not
issued, the aforesaid deposit, less $1 to cover expenses of considering such
application, shall be returned to the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 11.10.04)
§ 110.05 DATE AND DURATION OF LICENSE.
   A license shall not be valid beyond the expiration date therein specified
and, unless otherwise provided, shall not extend beyond December 31 of the year
issued; except that at any time after December 14 licenses may be issued for
the ensuing calendar year. Unless otherwise specified, the full annual fee will
be required of licensees irrespective of the date of issue of such license.
(Prior Code, § 11.10.05)
§ 110.06 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Every license shall be issued to a real party in interest in the enterprise
or business, and unless otherwise provided, no license shall be assigned or
transferred.
(Prior Code, § 11.10.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.07 LICENSE CERTIFICATE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   Every licensee carrying on business at a fixed location shall keep posted in
a prominent place upon the licensed premises the license certificate. Other
licensees shall carry their license certificates at all times and, whenever
requested by any officer or citizen, shall exhibit the same.
(Prior Code, § 11.10.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.08 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   Any license may be revoked by the City Treasurer at any time for conditions
or considerations which, had they existed at the time of issuance, would have
been valid grounds for its denial; for any misrepresentation of a material fact
in the application discovered after issuance of the license; for violation of
any provision of this chapter or other law or ordinance relating to the
operation of the business or enterprise for which the license has been issued;
or upon conviction of a license for any federal, state or city law or ordinance
involving moral turpitude. Such revocation shall become effective upon notice
served upon such licensee or posted upon the premises affected. As a
preliminary to revocation, the City Treasurer may issue an order suspending
such license, which shall become effective immediately upon service of written
notice to such licensee. Such notice shall specify the reason for suspension,
and may provide conditions under which reinstatement of the license may be
obtained. Upon compliance with such conditions within the time specified, such
license may be restored.
(Prior Code, § 11.10.08)
§ 110.09 APPEAL AND REVIEW.
   In case any applicant has been denied a license, or if his or her license
has been revoked or suspended, the applicant or licensee, as the case may be,
shall, within three business days, have the right to appeal to the City Council
from such denial, revocation or suspension. Notice of appeal shall be filed, in
writing, with the City Treasurer who shall fix the time and place for hearing,
the same to be not later than one week thereafter. The City Treasurer shall
notify the City Manager and all members of City Council of the time and place
of such hearing not less than 12 hours in advance thereof. Three members of
City Council shall constitute a quorum to hear such appeal. The appellant may
appear and be heard in person or by counsel. If, after hearing, a majority of
the members of City Council present at such meeting declare in favor of the
applicant, such license shall be forthwith issued or fully reinstated as the
case may be; otherwise, the order appealed from shall become final.
(Prior Code, § 11.10.09)
COLLECTION AGENCIES
§ 110.20 LICENSE; BOND.
   (A)   Every person engaged in, conducting, managing or carrying on the
business of a collection agency in the city shall pay a license tax of $10 per
year for each office or branch office maintained in the conducting, managing or
carrying on of the collection agency, and in addition shall execute and deliver
to the City Auditor a bond in the principal sum of $1,000 which bond shall run
to the city. The bond shall be executed and acknowledged by the applicant as
principal, and by a corporation which is licensed by the Insurance Department
of this state to transact the business of fidelity and surety insurance, as
surety, and the bond shall be conditioned that the principal shall and will,
upon demand in writing, pay and turn over to and for the use of any client,
patron and customer from whom any claim is taken or received for collection,
the proceeds of such collection in accordance with the terms of the agreement
made between the principal and the client, patron or customer, and conditioned
further that the principal will comply with all requirements of the ordinances
of the city and laws of the state now in force or hereafter enacted with
respect to the duties, obligations and liabilities of collection agencies.
   (B)   The bond shall cover all matters placed with the licensee during the
term of the license so applied for, or renewal thereof and the liability there
under shall continue only for a period of two years from and after the
expiration or revocation of the license issued upon the filing of the bond;
provided no action shall have been commenced upon the bond before the
expiration of said period.
(Prior Code, § 11.02.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Schedule of fees, see §
110.02
§ 110.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLAIM. Any obligation for the payment of money or its equivalent arising in
the usual course of business or occupation.
   COLLECTION AGENCY. Includes all persons, firms, corporations and voluntary
associations engaging, directly or indirectly, and as a primary or secondary
object, business or pursuit, in soliciting claims for collection, and in the
collection of claims owing, or due, or asserted to be owing or due to another,
and any person, firm, corporation or voluntary association engaged in
collecting accounts for another, whether the employment is for one or more
persons, firms, corporations or voluntary associations, or in the selling or
furnishing of any collection system or collection letter forms or collection
letters, or any house agency, firm, person, corporation or voluntary
association using a fictitious name in collecting its own accounts receivable
with the intention of conveying to the debtor that a third-party has been
employed to collect such accounts. Any person, firm or corporation soliciting
or attempting to solicit claims for collection or collecting or attempting to
collect claims due or owing, or asserted to be due or owing to another, by
letter or by agent, or by any means whatsoever, from persons within the city,
though not maintaining a fixed place of business in the city, shall be deemed
to be engaged in conducting, managing or carrying on the business of a
collection agency in the city and shall pay a license tax of $10 per year to
the city and shall file a bond with the city as provided above.
(Prior Code, § 11.02.02)
§ 110.22 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The term COLLECTION AGENCY shall not include attorneys at law,
individuals regularly employed on a regular wage or salary in the capacity of
creditperson or in other similar capacity upon the staff of employees of any
one firm, person, corporation or one voluntary association not engaged in the
business of a collection agency, banks, abstract companies doing an escrow
business, duly licensed real estate brokers making only collection arising out
of real estate transactions, nor a merchants’ non-profit credit association,
unless such banks, abstract companies, real estate brokers and merchant-owned
non- profit credit associations are conducting a collection agency.
   (B)   License must be refused to anyone as listed above who publishes names
of debtors in any newspaper or other publicly distributed periodical.
(Prior Code, § 11.02.03)
CHAPTER 111: LIQUOR CONTROL
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Sales to minors; prohibitions and misrepresentations
   
111.03   Sales to intoxicated persons
   
111.04   Liquor consumption in a motor vehicle
   
111.05   Permit required
   
111.06   Posting liquor age warning signs
   
111.07   Open container prohibited
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. Ethyl alcohol, whether rectified or diluted with water or not,
whatever its origin may be, and includes synthetic ethyl alcohol. The term does
not include denatured alcohol and wood alcohol.
   AT RETAIL. For use or consumption by the purchaser and not for resale.
   BEER.
      (1)   Includes all beverages brewed or fermented wholly or in part from
malt products and containing 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume.
      (2)   Beer, regardless of the percent of alcohol by volume, is not
intoxicating liquor for purposes of this code, the Ohio Revised Code or any
rules adopted under it.
   CIDER. All liquids that are fit to use for beverage purposes that contain
0.5% of alcohol by volume, but not more than 6% of alcohol by weight that are
made through the normal alcoholic fermentation of the juice of sound, ripe
apples, including, without limitation, flavored, sparkling or carbonated cider
and cider made from pure condensed apple must.
   CLUB. A corporation or association of individuals organized in good faith
for social, recreational, benevolent, charitable, fraternal, political,
patriotic or athletic purposes, which is the owner, lessor or occupant of a
permanent building or part of a permanent building operated solely for such
purposes, membership in which entails the prepayment of regular dues, and
includes the place so operated.
   COMMUNITY FACILITY. Means either of the following:
      (1)   Any convention, sports or entertainment facility or complex, or any
combination of these, that is used by or accessible to the general public and
that is owned or operated in whole or in part by the state, a state agency or a
political subdivision of the state or that is leased from, or located on
property owned by or leased from, the state, a state agency, a political
subdivision of the state or a convention facilities authority created pursuant
to R.C. § 351.02; or
      (2)   An area designated as a community entertainment district pursuant
to R.C. § 4301.80.
   CONTROLLED ACCESS ALCOHOL AND BEVERAGE CABINET. A closed container, either
refrigerated, in whole or in part, or nonrefrigerated, access to the interior
of which is restricted by means of a device that requires the use of a key,
magnetic card or similar device and from which beer, intoxicating liquor, other
beverages or food may be sold.
   HOTEL. The same meaning as in R.C. § 3731.01, subject to the exceptions
mentioned in R.C. § 3731.03.
   INTOXICATING LIQUOR and LIQUOR. All liquids and compounds, other than beer,
containing 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume which are fit to use for beverage
purposes, from whatever source and by whatever process produced, by whatever
name called and whether they are medicated, proprietary or patented. The terms
include cider and alcohol, and all solids and confections which contain 0.5% or
more of alcohol by volume.
   LOW-ALCOHOL BEVERAGE. Any brewed or fermented malt product or any product
made from the fermented juices of grapes, fruits or other agricultural products
that contains either no alcohol or less than 0.5% of alcohol by volume. The
beverages described in this definition do not include a soft drink such as root
beer, birch beer or ginger beer.
   MANUFACTURE. All processes by which beer or intoxicating liquor is produced,
whether by distillation, rectifying, fortifying, blending, fermentation,
brewing or in any other manner.
   MANUFACTURER. Any person engaged in the business of manufacturing beer or
intoxicating liquor.
   MIXED BEVERAGES. Includes bottled and prepared cordials, cocktails,
highballs and solids and confections that are obtained by mixing any type of
whiskey, neutral spirits, brandy, gin or other distilled spirits with, or over,
carbonated or plain water, pure juices from flowers and plants and other
flavoring materials. The completed product shall contain not less than 0.5% of
alcohol by volume and not more than 21% of alcohol by volume. The phrase
includes the contents of a pod.
   NIGHTCLUB. A place habitually operated for profit, where food is served for
consumption on the premises, and one or more forms of amusement are provided or
permitted for a consideration that may be in the form of a cover charge or may
be included in the price of the food and beverages, or both, purchased by
patrons.
   PERSON. Includes firms and corporations.
   PHARMACY. An establishment, as defined in R.C. § 4729.01, that is under the
management or control of a licensed pharmacist in accordance with R.C. §
4729.27.
   POD. A sealed capsule made from plastic, glass, aluminum or a combination
thereof to which all of the following apply.
      (1)   The capsule contains intoxicating liquor of more than 21% of
alcohol by volume.
      (2)   The capsule also contains a concentrated flavoring mixture.
      (3)   The contents of the capsule are not readily accessible or intended
for consumption unless certain manufacturer’s processing instructions are
followed.
      (4)   The instructions include releasing the contents of the capsule
through a machine specifically designed to process the contents.
      (5)   After being properly processed according to the manufacturer’s
instructions, the final product produced from the capsule contains not less
than 0.5% of alcohol by volume and not more than 21% of alcohol by volume.
   RESTAURANT. A place located in a permanent building provided with space and
accommodations wherein, in consideration of the payment of money, hot meals are
habitually prepared, sold and served at noon and evening, as the principal
business of the place. The term does not include pharmacies, confectionery
stores, lunch stands, nightclubs and filling stations.
   SALE and SELL. The exchange, barter, gift, offer for sale, sale,
distribution and delivery of any kind, and the transfer of title or possession
of beer and intoxicating liquor either by constructive or actual delivery by
any means or devices whatever, including the sale of beer or intoxicating
liquor by means of a controlled access alcohol and beverage cabinet pursuant to
R.C. § 4301.21. Such terms do not include the mere solicitation of orders for
beer or intoxicating liquor from the holders of permits issued by the Division
of Liquor Control authorizing the sale of the beer or intoxicating liquor, but
no solicitor shall solicit any orders until the solicitor has been registered
with the Division pursuant to R.C. § 4303.25.
   SALES AREA OR TERRITORY. An exclusive geographic area or territory that is
assigned to a particular A or B permit holder and that either has one or more
political subdivisions as its boundaries or consists of an area of land with
readily identifiable geographic boundaries. The term does not include, however,
any particular retail location in an exclusive geographic area or territory
that had been assigned to another A or B permit holder before April 9, 2001.
   SEALED CONTAINER. Any container having a capacity of not more than 128 fluid
ounces, the opening of which is closed to prevent the entrance of air.
   SPIRITUOUS LIQUOR. All intoxicating liquors containing more than 21% of
alcohol by volume. The phrase does not include the contents of a pod.
   VEHICLE. All means of transportation by land, by water or by air, and
everything made use of in any way for such transportation.
   WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTOR and DISTRIBUTOR. A person engaged in the business of
selling to retail dealers for purposes of resale.
   WINE. All liquids fit to use for beverage purposes containing not less than
0.5% of alcohol by volume and not more than 21% of alcohol by volume, that is
made from the fermented juices of grapes, fruits, or other agricultural
products. The term includes cider, except as used in R.C. §§ 4301.13, 4301.421,
4301.422, 4301.432, and 4301.44, and, for purposes of determining the rate of
the tax that applies, R.C. § 4301.43(B), the term does not include cider.
(R.C. §§ 4301.01, 4301.244) (Prior Code, § 9.13.01)
§ 111.02 SALES TO MINORS; PROHIBITIONS AND MISREPRESENTATIONS.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter 4301, no
person under the age of 21 years shall purchase beer or intoxicating liquor.
(R.C. § 4301.63) (Prior Code, § 9.13.02)
§ 111.03 SALES TO INTOXICATED PERSONS.
   Sales of beer and intoxicating liquor under all classes of permits and from
liquor stores are subject to the following restrictions, in addition to those
imposed by the rules or orders of the state Division of Liquor Control.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter
4301, no beer or intoxicating liquor shall be sold to any person under 21 years
of age.
      (2)   No low-alcohol beverage shall be sold to any person under 18 years
of age. No permit issued by the Division shall be suspended, revoked or
cancelled because of a violation of this division (A)(2).
      (3)   Except as provided in division (A)(1)(d) of this section, all of
the following apply to the handling, serving, and selling of beer and
intoxicating liquor by a person employed by a permit holder:
         (a)   No person under 19 years of age shall sell beer across a bar.
         (b)   No person under 21 years of age shall sell wine, mixed
beverages, or spirituous liquor across a bar.
         (c)   No person under 18 years of age shall otherwise handle, serve,
or sell beer or intoxicating liquor.
      (4)   Any person employed by a permit holder may handle beer or
intoxicating liquor in sealed containers in connection with manufacturing,
storage, warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading, and
may handle beer or intoxicating liquor in open containers in connection with
cleaning tables or handling empty bottles or glasses.
   (B)   No permit holder and no agent or employee of a permit holder shall
sell or furnish beer or intoxicating liquor to an intoxicated person.
   (C)   (1)   No sales of intoxicating liquor shall be made after 2:30 a.m. on
Sunday, except under either of the following circumstances.
         (a)   Intoxicating liquor may be sold on Sunday under authority of a
permit that authorizes Sunday sale.
         (b)   Spiritous liquor may be sold on Sunday by any person awarded an
agency contract under R.C. § 4301.17 if the sale of spiritous liquor is
authorized in the applicable precinct as the result of an election on question
of R.C. § 4301.351(B)(1) or (B)(2) and if the agency contract authorizes the
sale of spiritous liquor on Sunday.
      (2)   This section does not prevent the municipality from adopting a
closing hour for the sale of intoxicating liquor earlier than 2:30 a.m. on
Sunday or to provide that no intoxicating liquor may be sold prior to that hour
on Sunday.
   (D)   (1)   No holder of a permit shall give away any beer or intoxicating
liquor of any kind at any time in connection with the permit holder’s business.
However, with the exception of an A-1-A permit holder that also has been issued
an A-2 or A-2f permit, an A-1-A, A-1c or D permit holder may provide to a
paying customer not more than a total of four tasting samples of beer, wine or
spirituous liquor, as authorized by the applicable permit, in any 24-hour
period. The permit holder shall provide the tasting samples free of charge, at
the permit holder’
      (2)   As used in this division (D):
         D PERMIT HOLDER. A person that has been issued a D-1, D-2, D-2x, D-3,
D-3a, D-3 x, D-4, D-5, D-5a, D-5c, D-5d, D-5e, D-5f, D-5g, D-5h, D-5i, D-5j, D-
5k, D-5l, D-5m, D-5n, D-5o, D-6 or D-7 permit.
         TASTING SAMPLE. One of the following, as applicable:
            1.   An amount not to exceed two ounces of beer;
            2.   An amount not to exceed two ounces of wine; and
            3.   An amount not to exceed a quarter ounce of spirituous liquor.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, no retail permit holder
shall display or permit the display on the outside of any licensed retail
premises, on any lot of ground on which the licensed premises are situated, or
on the exterior of any building of which the licensed premises are a part, any
sign, illustration or advertisement bearing the name, brand name, trade name,
trademark, designation or other emblem of, or indicating the manufacturer,
producer, distributor, place of manufacture, production or distribution of, any
beer or intoxicating liquor. Signs, illustrations or advertisements bearing the
name, brand name, trade name, trademark, designation or other emblem of or
indicating the manufacturer, producer, distributor, place of manufacture,
production or distribution of beer or intoxicating liquor may be displayed and
permitted to be displayed on the interior or in the show windows of any
licensed premises, if the particular brand or type of product so advertised is
actually available for sale on the premises at the time of that display. The
Liquor Control Commission shall determine by rule the size and character of
those signs, illustrations or advertisements.
   (F)   No retail permit holder shall possess on the licensed premises any
barrel or other container from which beer is drawn, unless there is attached to
the spigot or other dispensing apparatus the name of the manufacturer of the
product contained in the barrel or other container; provided that, if the beer
is served at a bar, the manufacturer’s name or brand shall appear in full view
of the purchaser. The Commission shall regulate the size and character of the
devices provided for in this section.
   (G)   The sale of gift certificates for the purchase of beer, wine, or mixed
beverages shall be permitted for the purchase of beer, wine, or mixed beverages
for on- or off-premises consumption. Limitations on the use of a gift
certificate for the purchase of beer, wine, or mixed beverages for on- or off-
premises consumption may be expressed by clearly stamping or typing on the face
of the certificate that the certificate may not be used for the purchase of
beer, wine, or mixed beverages for on-premises consumption.
(R.C. § 4301.22) (Prior Code, § 9.13.03)
Statutory reference:
   Suspension of beer and liquor sales during emergency, see R.C. § 4301.251
§ 111.04 LIQUOR CONSUMPTION IN A MOTOR VEHICLE.
   No person shall consume any beer or intoxicating liquor in a motor vehicle.
This section does not apply to persons described in R.C. § 4301.62(D) or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 4301.64) (Prior Code, § 9.13.04)
§ 111.05 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, personally or by the person’s clerk, agent or employee,
shall manufacture, manufacture for sale, offer, keep or possess for sale,
furnish or sell, or solicit the purchase or sale of any beer or intoxicating
liquor in this state, or transport, import or cause to be transported or
imported any beer, intoxicating liquor or alcohol in or into this municipality
for delivery, use or sale, unless the person has fully complied with R.C.
Chapter 4301 and R.C. Chapter 4303 or is the holder of a permit issued by the
Division of Liquor Control and in force at the time.
   (B)   No manufacturer, supplier, wholesale distributor, broker or retailer
of beer or intoxicating liquor, or other person shall employ, retain or
otherwise utilize any person in this state to act as an employee, agent,
solicitor or salesperson, or act in any other representative capacity to sell,
solicit, take orders or receive offers to purchase or expressions of interest
to purchase beer or intoxicating liquor from any person, at any location other
than a liquor permit premises, except as specifically authorized by R.C.
Chapters 4301 or R.C. Chapter 4303 or rules adopted thereunder. No function,
event or party shall take place at any location other than a liquor permit
premises where any person acts in any manner to sell, solicit, take orders or
receive offers to purchase or expressions of intent to purchase beer or
intoxicating liquor to or from any person, except as specifically authorized by
R.C. Chapter 4301 or R.C. Chapter 4303 or rules adopted thereunder.
(R.C. § 4303.25) (Prior Code, § 9.13.05)
§ 111.06 POSTING LIQUOR AGE WARNING SIGNS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 4301.691, every place in
this municipality where beer, intoxicating liquor or any low-alcohol beverage
is sold for beverage purposes shall display at all times, in a prominent place
on the premises thereof, a printed card, which shall be furnished by the
Division of Liquor Control and which shall read substantially as follows:
   WARNING TO PERSONS UNDER AGE
   If you are under the age of 21
   Under the statutes of the state of Ohio, if you order, pay for, share the
cost of, or attempt to purchase, or possess or consume beer or intoxicating
liquor in any public place, or furnish false information as to name, age, or
other identification, you are subject to a fine of up to $1,000, or
imprisonment up to 6 months, or both.
   If you are under the age of 18
   Under the statutes of the state of Ohio, if you order, pay for, share the
cost of, or attempt to purchase, or posses or consume, any type of beer or wine
that contains either no alcohol or less than one- half of one per cent of
alcohol by volume in any public place, or furnish false information as to the
name, age, or other identification, you are subject to a fine of up to $250 or
to imprisonment up to 30 days, or both.
      (2)   No person shall be subject to any criminal prosecution or any
proceedings before the Department or the Liquor Control Commission for failing
to display this card. No permit issued by the Department shall be suspended,
revoked or canceled because of the failure of the permit holder to display this
card.
   (B)   (1)   Every place in this municipality for which a D permit has been
issued under R.C. Chapter 4303 shall be issued a printed card by the Division
of Liquor Control that shall read substantially as follows:
   WARNING
   If you are carrying a firearm
   Under the statutes of Ohio, if you possess a firearm in any room in which
liquor is being dispensed in premises for which a D permit has been issued
under R.C. Chapter 4303, you may be guilty of a felony and may be subjected to
a prison term of up to one year.
      (2)   No person shall be subject to any criminal prosecution or any
proceedings before the Division of Liquor Control or the Liquor Control
Commission for failing to display this card. No permit issued by the Department
shall be suspended, revoked or canceled because of the failure of the permit
holder to display this card.
(R.C. § 4301.637) (Prior Code, § 9.13.06) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Carrying concealed weapon, felony, see R.C. § 2923.12
   Possessing firearm in liquor permit premises, exceptions, defenses, see R.C.
§ 2923.121
§ 111.07 OPEN CONTAINER PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINE. A vehicle registered under R.C. § 4503.24.
      HIGHWAY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      STREET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   (B)   No person shall have in the person’s possession an opened container of
beer or intoxicating liquor in any of the following circumstances:
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(1)(e) below, in a state liquor
store;
      (2)   Except as provided in division (C) or (J) of this section, on the
premises of the holder of any permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control;
      (3)   In any other public place;
      (4)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) below, while operating or
being a passenger in or on a motor vehicle on any street, highway or other
public or private property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking; or
      (5)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) below, while being in or
on a stationary motor vehicle on any street, highway or other public or private
property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking.
   (C)   (1)   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened container
of any of the following:
         (a)   Beer or intoxicating liquor that has been lawfully purchased for
consumption on the premises where bought from the holder of an A-1-A, A-2, A-
2f, A-3a, D-1, D-2, D-3, D-3a, D-4, D-4a, D-5, D-5a, D-5b, D-5c, D-5d, D-5e, D-
5f, D-5g, D-5h, D-5i, D-5j, D-5k, D-5l, D-5m, D-5n, D-5o, D-7, D-8, E, F, F-2,
F-5, F-7 or F-8 permit;
         (b)   Beer, wine or mixed beverages served for consumption on the
premises by the holder of an F-3 permit, wine served as a tasting sample by an
A-2, S-1 or S-2 permit holder for consumption on the premises of a farmers
market for which an F-10 permit has been issued, or wine served for consumption
on the premises by the holder of an F-4 or F-6 permit;
         (c)   Beer or intoxicating liquor consumed on the premises of a
convention facility as provided in R.C. § 4303.201;
         (d)   Beer or intoxicating liquor to be consumed during tastings and
samplings approved by rule of the Liquor Control Commission; and
         (e)   Spiritous liquor to be consumed for purposes of a tasting
sample, as defined in R.C. § 4301.171.
      (2)   A person may have in the person’s possession on an F liquor permit
premises an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor that was not
purchased from the holder of the F permit if the premises for which the F
permit is issued is a music festival and the holder of the F permit grants
permission for that possession on the premises during the period for which the
F permit is issued. As used in this division (C)(2), MUSIC FESTIVAL means a
series of outdoor live musical performances extending for a period of at least
three consecutive days and located on an area of land of at least 40 acres.
      (3)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on a D-2 liquor
permit premises an opened or unopened container of wine that was not purchased
from the holder of the D-2 permit if the premises for which the D-2 permit is
issued is an outdoor performing arts center, the person is attending an
orchestral performance and the holder of the D-2 permit grants permission for
the possession and consumption of wine in certain predesignated areas of the
premises during the period for which the D-2 permit is issued.
         (b)   As used in division (C)(3)(a) above:
            ORCHESTRAL PERFORMANCE. A concert comprised of a group of not fewer
than 40 musicians playing various musical instruments.
            OUTDOOR PERFORMING ARTS CENTER. An outdoor performing arts center
that is located on not less than 150 acres of land and that is open for
performances from the first day of April to the last day of October of each
year.
      (4)   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened or unopened
container of beer or intoxicating liquor at an outdoor location at which the
person is attending an orchestral performance as defined in division (C)(3)(b)
above if the person with supervision and control over the performance grants
permission for the possession and consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor in
certain predesignated areas of that outdoor location.
      (5)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on an F-9 liquor
permit premises an opened or unopened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
that was not purchased from the holder of the F-9 permit if the person is
attending either of the following:
            1.   An orchestral performance and the F-9 permit holder grants
permission for the possession and consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor in
certain predesignated areas of the premises during the period for which the F-
9 permit is issued; and
            2.   An outdoor performing arts event or orchestral performance
that is free of charge and the F-9 permit holder annually hosts not less than
25 other events or performances that are free of charge on the permit premises.
         (b)   As used in division (C)(5) above, ORCHESTRAL PERFORMANCE has the
same meaning as in division (C)(3)(b) above.
      (6)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on the property
of an outdoor motorsports facility an opened or unopened container of beer or
intoxicating liquor that was not purchased from the owner of the facility if
both of the following apply:
            1.   The person is attending a racing event at the facility; and
            2.   The owner of the facility grants permission for the possession
and consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor on the property of the facility.
         (b)   As used in division (C)(6)(a) of this section:
            OUTDOOR MOTORSPORTS FACILITY. An outdoor racetrack to which all of
the following apply.
               a.   It is 2.4 miles or more in length.
               b.   It is located on 200 acres or more of land.
               c.   The primary business of the owner of the facility is the
hosting and promoting of racing events.
               d.   The holder of a D-1, D-2 or D-3 permit is located on the
property of the facility.
            RACING EVENT. A motor vehicle racing event sanctioned by one or
more motor racing sanctioning organizations.
      (7)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened
container of beer or intoxicating liquor at an outdoor location within an
outdoor refreshment area created under R.C. § 4301.82 if the opened container
of beer or intoxicating liquor was purchased from an A-1, A-1-A, A-1c, A-2, A-
2f, D class or F class permit holder to which both of the following apply.
            1.   The permit holder’s premises is located within the outdoor
refreshment area.
            2.   The permit held by the permit holder has an outdoor
refreshment area designation.
         (b)   This division (C)(7) does not authorize a person to do either of
the following:
            1.   Enter the premises of an establishment within an outdoor
refreshment area while possessing an opened container of beer or intoxicating
liquor acquired elsewhere; or
            2.   Possess an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
while being in or on a motor vehicle within an outdoor refreshment area, unless
the possession is otherwise authorized under division (D) or (E) below.
         (c)   As used in this division (C)(7), “D class permit holder” does
not include a D-6 or D-8 permit holder.
      (8)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on the property
of a market, within a defined F-8 permit premises, an opened container of beer
or intoxicating liquor that was purchased from a D permit premises that is
located immediately adjacent to the market if both of the following apply.
            1.   The market grants permission for the possession and
consumption of beer and intoxicating liquor within the defined F-8 permit
premises.
            2.   The market is hosting an event pursuant to an F-8 permit and
the market has notified the division of liquor control about the event in
accordance with R.C. § 4303.208(A)(3).
         (b)   As used in this division (C)(8), MARKET means a market, for
which an F-8 permit is held, that has been in operation since 1860.
   (D)   This section does not apply to a person who pays all or a portion of
the fee imposed for use of a chauffeured limousine pursuant to a prearranged
contract or the guest of the person, when all of the following apply:
      (1)   The person or guest is a passenger in the limousine;
      (2)   The person or guest is located in the limousine, but is not
occupying a seat in the front compartment of the limousine where the operator
of the limousine is located; and
      (3)   The limousine is located on any street, highway or other public or
private property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking.
   (E)   An opened bottle of wine that was purchased from the holder of a
permit that authorizes the sale of wine for consumption on the premises where
sold is not an opened container for the purposes of this section if both of the
following apply.
      (1)   The opened bottle of wine is securely resealed by the permit holder
or an employee of the permit holder before the bottle is removed from the
premises. The bottle shall be secured in such a manner that it is visibly
apparent if the bottle has been subsequently opened or tampered with.
      (2)   The opened bottle of wine that is resealed in accordance with
division (E)(1) above is stored in the trunk of a motor vehicle or, if the
motor vehicle does not have a trunk, behind the last upright seat or in an area
not normally occupied by the driver or passengers and not easily accessible by
the driver.
   (F)   (1)   Except if an ordinance or resolution is enacted or adopted under
division (F)(2) below, this section does not apply to a person who, pursuant to
a prearranged contract, is a passenger riding on a commercial quadricycle when
all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person is not occupying a seat in the front of the
commercial quadricycle where the operator is steering or braking;
         (b)   The commercial quadricycle is being operated on a street,
highway or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking;
         (c)   The person has in his or her possession on the commercial
quadricycle an opened container of beer or wine; and
         (d)   The person has in his or her possession on the commercial
quadricycle not more than either 36 ounces of beer or 18 ounces of wine.
      (2)   The legislative authority may enact an ordinance or adopt a
resolution, as applicable, that prohibits a passenger riding on a commercial
quadricycle from possessing an opened container of beer or wine.
      (3)   As used in this section, COMMERCIAL QUADRICYCLE means a vehicle
that has fully-operative pedals for propulsion entirely by human power and that
meets all of the following requirements.
         (a)   It has four wheels and is operated in a manner similar to a
bicycle.
         (b)   It has at least five seats for passengers.
         (c)   It is designed to be powered by the pedaling of the operator and
the passengers.
         (d)   It is used for commercial purposes.
         (e)   It is operated by the vehicle owner or an employee of the owner.
   (G)   (1)   This section does not apply to a person that has in the person’s
possession an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor on the premises
of a market if the beer or intoxicating liquor has been purchased from a D
liquor permit holder that is located in the market.
      (2)   As used in this division (G), MARKET means an establishment that:
         (a)   Leases space in the market to individual vendors, not less than
50% of which are retail food establishments or food service operations licensed
under R.C. Chapter 3717;
         (b)   Has an indoor sales floor area of not less than 22,000 square
feet; and
         (c)   Hosts a farmer’s market on each Saturday from April through
December.
   (H)   (1)   As used in this section, ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE has the same meaning
as in R.C. § 4303.185.
      (2)   An alcoholic beverage in a closed container being transported under
R.C. § 4303.185 to its final destination is not an opened container for the
purposes of this section if the closed container is securely sealed in such a
manner that it is visibly apparent if the closed container has been
subsequently opened or tampered with after sealing.
   (I)   This section does not apply to a person who has in the person’s
possession an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor in a public-use
airport, as described in R.C. § 4303.181(D)(2)(a)(iii), when both of the
following apply:
      (1)   Consumption of the opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
occurs in the area of the airport terminal that is restricted to persons taking
flights to and from the airport; and
      (2)   The consumption is authorized under R.C. § 4303.181(D)(2)(a).
   (J)   This section does not apply to a person that has in the person’s
possession an opened container of homemade beer or wine that is served in
accordance with R.C. § 4301.201(E).
(R.C. § 4301.62) (Prior Code, § 9.13.07)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.30 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 9.13.99)
Editor’s Note:
   See §
130.99 for penalties applicable to any misdemeanor classification.
CHAPTER 112: AUCTIONS AND SALES
Section
   
112.01   Auction of jewelry; license required
   
112.02   Application for license
   
112.03   Indemnity bond
   
112.04   Each article to be labeled
   
112.05   Records to be kept
§ 112.01 AUCTION OF JEWELRY; LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Any person desiring to conduct or engage in the sale for gain at public
auction of jewelry, including solid or plated platinum, gold or silver pieces,
or imitations thereof; precious, semi-precious or synthetic jewels or
imitations thereof, with or without settings; watches and chains; rings; pins;
necklaces; bracelets; earrings; or obtain a jewelry auction license, and pay
the fee provided in §
110.02. Each license shall terminate automatically at the end of the period for
which it is issued, which shall not exceed 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 11.01.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Schedule of fees, see §
110.02
§ 112.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   The following information shall be furnished in addition to that required of
licensees generally:
   (A)   The length of time in which the applicant has been engaged in the
jewelry business and location of his or her place or places of business. No
applicant shall be eligible unless he or she has been engaged in the jewelry
business for at least one year immediately preceding his or her application,
and unless he or she has maintained a bona fide jewelry store in the city for
the preceding three months;
   (B)   Names and addresses of the auctioneers, each of whom shall be duly
licensed by the city as auctioneers, who will cry the merchandise;
   (C)   Time, dates and place of holding such auction; and
   (D)   An itemized list or inventory of each article of jewelry to be offered
for sale, with date of purchase and name and address of person from whom it was
purchased.
(Prior Code, § 11.01.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.03 INDEMNITY BOND.
   In addition to the filing of the application and payment of the license fee,
each applicant, as a condition to obtaining a license, shall post a bond with
good and sufficient surety in the sum of $2,500, conditioned to indemnify any
purchaser at such auction against loss due to misrepresentation of any article
sold.
(Prior Code, § 11.01.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.04 EACH ARTICLE TO BE LABELED.
   Each article of jewelry offered for sale shall bear a tag, label or stamp,
accurately describing the kind, quality and percent of purity of the metal,
stone or other composition thereof, and accurately stating whether it is solid,
overlaid or plated; genuine, synthetic or imitation; new or secondhand; and the
true name or names of the manufacturers where known.
(Prior Code, § 11.01.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.05 RECORDS TO BE KEPT.
   A complete record of all sales made at such auction shall be kept open to
inspection by purchasers and municipal authorities with the names and addresses
of the purchaser of each item and the price paid.
(Prior Code, § 11.01.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Auto dealers and salesperson, see R.C. §§ 4517.01 et seq.
   Pawnbrokers, see R.C. §§ 4727.01 et seq.
   Second-hand stores and junk shops, see R.C. §§ 4737.01 et seq.
CHAPTER 113: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   License or registration required
   
113.03   License application and requirements
   
113.04   Registration for charitable or religious purpose
   
113.05   Appeals
   
113.06   Carrying and exhibiting license or registration; non-transferability;
written receipt required
   
113.07   Business hours required
   
113.08   Notice prohibiting peddlers or solicitors
   
113.09   Fraud prohibited; revocation of license or registration fee
   
113.10   Permit to solicit charitable contributions on highways
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHARITABLE. Includes the words patriotic, philanthropic, social service,
welfare, eleemosynary, benevolent, educational, civic, fraternal, veteran’s
medical and social research, either actual or purported.
   RELIGIOUS or RELIGION. Shall not include the word charitable, but shall be
given their commonly accepted definitions as the expression of such is granted
under the free exercise clause of the First Amendment to the U. S. Constitution
where not overcome by government showing of a compelling interest.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who obtains or seeks to obtain funds or donations for
any cause whatsoever by means of canvassing from business place-to-place of or
residential door-to-door.
   TRANSIENT VENDOR. Any person who opens a temporary place of business, or who
on the streets or while traveling about the city or while locating on private
property carries, with them for the purpose of sale at retail and immediate or
future delivery, goods, wares, food or merchandise, or any person who in person
as principal or agent canvasses, sells or otherwise obtains orders or
commitments for the sale, repair or exchange of goods, wares, food or
merchandise or services. A TRANSIENT VENDOR may also be known as a VENDOR or
PEDDLER. A person or organization conducting business from their permanent
location but from temporary facilities and where the income from such activity
is reported as normal but additional business income shall not be classified as
a TRANSIENT VENDOR.
(Prior Code, § 11.04.01)
§ 113.02 LICENSE OR REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Subject to divisions (C) and (D) below, no person shall engage in the
business or activity of transient vendor, peddler or solicitor, as defined in §
113.01, without first obtaining a license as provided below.
   (B)   Subject to divisions (C) and (D) below, all persons acting for or
hired by another as a transient vendor, peddler or solicitor in the
municipality shall obtain a license as provided below prior to acting as a
transient vendor, peddler or solicitor.
   (C)   No license shall be required of any individual who, without
compensation, acts as a transient vendor, peddler or solicitor on behalf of and
for any recognized religious or charitable not for profit organization.
However, subject to division (D) below, no individual shall act as a transient
vendor, solicitor or peddler on behalf of or for such organization without
first having registered with the City Manager or his or her designee pursuant
to the provisions below.
   (D)   No license or registration certificate shall be required of any person
for the following:
      (1)   Vending, peddling or soliciting only the purchase of or
subscription for newspapers having their principal sale or distribution in this
municipality or this county or Hocking Counties;
      (2)   Vending, peddling or soliciting only for wholesale delivery to
merchants, manufacturers or other business or manufacturing establishments;
      (3)   Vending, peddling or soliciting in association with an exhibition,
parade or procession where a permit has been issued by the City Manager or his
or her designee in accordance with
Chapter 115 or
Chapter 94.
      (4)   Vending, peddling or soliciting conducted only among the members of
the entity or organization conducting the peddling or soliciting; and
      (5)   Vending, peddling or soliciting in the form of collections or
contributions at the regular assemblies, meeting or services of any recognized
charitable or religious not for profit organization.
(Prior Code, § 11.04.02)
Cross-reference:
   Schedule of fees, see §
110.02
§ 113.03 LICENSE APPLICATION AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Applications for licenses for peddlers or solicitors shall be filed
with the City Manager on forms to be furnished by the City Manager, which shall
require, at a minimum, the following information:
      (1)   The name of the applicant;
      (2)   If the applicant is an individual, a physical description of the
applicant;
      (3)   The applicant’s Social Security number or the business federal
identification of whom the individual is employed;
      (4)   The name and address of the person by whom the applicant is
employed or for whom he is vending, peddling or soliciting;
      (5)   The nature and character of the goods to be sold or services to be
furnished by the applicant or the purpose for which funds are being vended,
peddled or solicited;
      (6)   The names of other municipalities in which the applicant has
conducted vending peddling or solicitation activities within the past six
months;
      (7)   Verification that the applicant or his or her employer has complied
with the requirements of R.C. Chapter 1716 pertaining to charitable
solicitations, if applicable;
      (8)   If the applicant is a recognized religious or charitable not for
profit organization, proof of tax exempt status;
      (9)   Verification of registration with the City Auditor if wages earned
will be subject to §§
36.15 through
36.31; and
      (10)   Such other information as the City Manager may require.
   (B)   In lieu of items mentioned above, an individual, business or
organization may present his, her or its application for and license number of
an approved State Department of Taxation transient vendor’s license and/or the
County Auditor’s transient vendor’s license.
   (C)   Applications shall be made at least 72 hours before the license may be
issued.
   (D)   If the City Manager or his or her designee determines, after an
investigation, that the information furnished under the requirements of
division (A) above is correct; that the applicant proposes to engage in lawful
commercial or professional enterprise and that neither the applicant nor the
enterprise upon which the applicant proposes to engage constitutes a clear and
present danger to the residents of the municipality, he or she shall issue a
license to the applicant.
   (E)   The license fee charged by the City Manager shall be $5 per day or $25
per month, whichever is less or as established by separate City Council
ordinance. Licenses shall expire on the date specified in the license.
(Prior Code, § 11.04.03)
§ 113.04 REGISTRATION FOR CHARITABLE OR RELIGIOUS PURPOSE.
   (A)   Applications for registration certificates shall be filed with the
office of the City Manager on forms to be furnished by and available at the
office of the City Manager. Each application shall contain:
      (1)   The name, address and the telephone number of the person completing
the application;
      (2)   The name of an officer or official of the organization;
      (3)   The name and nature of the charitable or religious organization and
the purpose to which the contributions, donations or sale proceeds will be
applied; and
      (4)   Other such information as the City Manager may require.
   (B)   An organization which desires to place a number of vendors, peddlers
or solicitors in the city simultaneously may make a group application to cover
all of them; however, separate registration certificates shall be issued to
each or, in lieu of separate registration certificates, separate information
cards shall be issued to each vendor, peddler or solicitor by the organization.
Such information cards shall be provided by the City Manager and include, at a
minimum:
      (1)   The name of the organization;
      (2)   A description of the purpose of the vending, peddling or
solicitation;
      (3)   The period for which the registration certificate was issued;
      (4)   The name of the vendor, peddler or solicitor and the organization
he or she represents;
      (5)   A brief description of the vendor, peddler or solicitor, such as
age, weight and height; and
      (6)   The signatures of the vendor, peddler or solicitor and an officer
or official of the organization.
   (C)   A registration certificate shall be valid for a period of time
approved by the City Manager. The registration certificate shall state the
expiration date.
   (D)   No fee shall be required for a registration certificate.
(Prior Code, § 11.04.04)
§ 113.05 APPEALS.
   Any person who has applied for a license or registration certificate in
accordance with this chapter and to whom the City Manager or his or her
designee has, after an investigation, denied a license or registration
certificate may appeal to City Council. Notice of such appeal shall be filed
with the City Council Clerk within five days after the denial by the City
Manager. Such appeal shall be heard by City Council at the next regular meeting
and its decision shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 11.04.05)
§ 113.06 CARRYING AND EXHIBITING LICENSE OR REGISTRATION; NON-TRANSFERABILITY;
WRITTEN RECEIPT REQUIRED.
   (A)   The license or registration certificate issued under the provisions of
this chapter shall, at all times, be conspicuously attached and exhibited on
the outer clothing of the vendor, peddler or solicitor.
   (B)   Licenses or registration certificates issued under the provisions of
this chapter are non-transferable and shall not be used by any person other
than the person identified on the license or registration certificate.
   (C)   Upon request, all vendors, solicitors or peddlers shall provide a
written receipt showing the name of the vendor, solicitor or peddler; the
amount of the contribution or purchase; and the date. Upon request, all persons
acting as vendors, peddlers or solicitors on behalf of any recognized religious
or charitable not for profit organization shall provide a statement attesting
to the organization’s exempt status under the federal Internal Revenue Code §
501.
(Prior Code, § 11.04.06)
§ 113.07 BUSINESS HOURS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall vend, peddle, solicit or conduct market research,
door-to-door, at dwelling houses or businesses at random, on sidewalks or
streets, at public places, at private meeting places or in any other manner or
place in the municipality between 9:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m. or on any Sunday or
holiday.
   (B)   This section does not apply to events sanctioned under Chapter 115 or
where other hours of operation have been approved by the City Manager.
   (C)   This section does not apply to invitees or national charitable
corporations licensed to do business in the state with recognized periods for
campaigns, provided the organizations have been licensed to solicit by the City
Manager.
(Prior Code, § 11.04.07)
§ 113.08 NOTICE PROHIBITING PEDDLERS OR SOLICITORS.
   (A)   The owners or occupants of any residence or place of business may
evidence a determination to refuse to receive any uninvited vendors, peddlers
or solicitors by displaying a weatherproof card, decal or sign not less than
three inches by four inches in size nor more than one square foot in total
surface area upon or near the main entrance door to the residence or place of
business, containing the words “no vendors, peddlers or solicitors invited”
with letters at least one-third inch in height. Any such weatherproof card,
decal or sign which complies with the requirements of this section shall be
exempt from any additional or different requirements contained in the
provisions of §
153.130.
   (B)   No person shall go upon any premises and ring the door bell, rap or
knock upon any door or create any sound in any other manner calculated to
attract the attention of any occupant of such residence or place of business
for the purpose of securing an audience with the occupants thereof and engage
in vending, peddling or solicitation in defiance of a notice displayed pursuant
to division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 11.04.08)
§ 113.09 FRAUD PROHIBITED; REVOCATION OF LICENSE OR REGISTRATION FEE.
   (A)   No person shall, directly or indirectly, make or perpetrate any
misstatement, deception or fraud in connection with any solicitation or
peddling for any purpose in the city or in any application or report filed
under this chapter.
   (B)   No person having entered into an agreement to conduct any vending,
peddling or solicitation on behalf of any person or organization shall fail to
remit or pay to the party entitled thereto the proceeds of such vending,
peddling or solicitation in accordance with the terms of the agreement.
   (C)   The City Manager, or his or her designee, may revoke at any time any
license or registration certificate issued under the provisions of this chapter
for violation of any provision of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11.04.09)
§ 113.10 PERMIT TO SOLICIT CHARITABLE CONTRIBUTIONS ON HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   The City Manager may issue a permit to solicit contributions on
highways from the occupants of vehicles when all of the requirements of
division (B) below have been met.
   (B)   A charitable organization may apply for and obtain a permit to solicit
contributions on highways, but not on freeways, as provided in R.C. § 4511.051,
as follows.
      (1)   The City Manager shall prescribe a form and receive applications
for permits to solicit contributions on highways.
      (2)   Only a charitable organization that has received from the Internal
Revenue Service a currently valid ruling or determination letter recognizing
the tax exempt status of the organization pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code
§ 501(c)(3), as amended, may apply for a permit to solicit contributions on
highways. A copy of the Internal Revenue Service ruling or determination letter
must be attached to the application.
      (3)   The application shall specify the date and times for which the
permit to solicit contributions on highways is sought. A permit to solicit
contributions on highways shall not be issued for more than one day each
calendar year, and the solicitation activities shall occur only from one hour
after sunrise until one hour before sunset on that date.
      (4)   The application shall specify the locations for which the permit to
solicit contributions on highways is sought. A permit to solicit contributions
shall be at no more than two intersections.
      (5)   The application shall list the names and addresses of all agents
authorized to solicit contributions on highways on behalf of the charitable
organization.
      (6)   Prior to the issuance of a permit to solicit contributions on
highways, the City Manager shall verify that the proposed solicitation at the
locations and the date and times specified in the application does not conflict
with a previously issued exhibition, parade or procession permit or scheduled
public event. No more than one permit shall be issued for the use of any
intersection during any calendar day, and no more than one charitable
organization shall be permitted to solicit contributions on highways on the
same calendar day.
      (7)   For each charitable organization issued a permit to solicit
contributions on highways, the Police Chief shall be provided a copy of the
charitable organization’s application; its permit; and the names of the agents
authorized to solicit contributions on highways on behalf of the charitable
organization.
      (8)   All agents soliciting contributions on highways on behalf of a
charitable organization shall possess a copy of such permit at all times during
the period of such solicitation.
      (9)   All agents soliciting contributions on highways on behalf of a
charitable organization shall wear light-colored clothing and/or safety vests
and shall prominently display an identification of the charitable organization.
      (10)   The City Manager, or his or her designee, shall have the authority
to revoke a charitable organization’s permit to solicit contributions on
highways, and the City Manager or the Police Chief, in his or her sole
discretion, may order any and all of a charitable organization’s agents to
cease all activity if conditions become hazardous and/or inclement or if a
charitable organization’s agents fail to comply with the requirements of this
section.
(Prior Code, § 11.04.10)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Whosoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. Each day on which such activities are conducted shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 11.04.99)
CHAPTER 114: TAXICABS AND OTHER VEHICLES
Section
   
114.01   Taxicab; definitions
   
114.02   Taxicab; business license fees
   
114.03   Application for taxicab business license
   
114.04   Issuance of taxicab business license
   
114.05   Taxicab stands; call stations
   
114.06   Rates; rules and regulations
   
114.07   Displaying rates; excessive charges
   
114.08   All taxicab drivers to be licensed
   
114.09   Suspension or revocation of license
   
114.10   Appeal and review
   
114.11   Renewal of license
   
114.12   Inspection
   
114.13   Group riding and load restrictions
   
114.14   Drivers not to refuse service
   
114.15   Receipts to be furnished upon request
   
114.16   Transporting illegal drugs or open containers of alcoholic beverages
prohibited
   
114.17   Failure to pay fare
   
114.18   Falsification
   
114.19   Exclusions
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 TAXICAB; DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TAXICAB. Any vehicle whose owner or driver solicits, secures or accepts
passengers for hire upon hail or request on the public streets in the city and
to include limousine services. It does not include a vehicle such as a bus,
streetcar, trackless trolley or other vehicle furnishing transportation to the
public on a fixed schedule or route.
   TAXICAB BOARD or THE BOARD. The City Manager, the Director of Code
Enforcement and the Chief of Police. The City Manager shall serve as the Chair,
the Director of Code Enforcement as the Treasurer and the Chief of Police as
the Secretary.
(Prior Code, § 11.05.01)
§ 114.02 TAXICAB; BUSINESS LICENSE FEES.
   No person desiring to operate a taxicab or proffer the services of a taxicab
shall operate without first obtaining a license before engaging in such
business and shall pay the license fee provided herein for each taxicab
employed in such business. Taxicab business licenses issued on or after July 1
of any year shall be issued at one-half the annual license fee herein provided.
A local annual fee of $50 or as established by separate City Council ordinance
is in addition to any fees required by the state.
(Prior Code, § 11.05.02) Penalty, see §
114.99
Cross-reference:
   Schedule of fees, see §
110.02
§ 114.03 APPLICATION FOR TAXICAB BUSINESS LICENSE.
   Each applicant for a taxicab business license shall present and file with
the city code enforcement office an application setting forth the information
required of licensees by the general licensing provisions and in addition
thereto the following:
   (A)   The trade name under which he intends to do business;
   (B)   The number of vehicles for which a license is desired with a
description of each;
   (C)   The markings or letterings to be affixed on each taxicab; and
   (D)   Any other information required by rule or regulation of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 11.05.03)
§ 114.04 ISSUANCE OF TAXICAB BUSINESS LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   The Taxicab Board shall investigate and hold a hearing upon each
new application for license. If it finds from such investigation and hearing
that the public convenience and necessity do not justify the operation of the
vehicles for which license is desired, the Board shall forthwith notify the
applicant of its finding.
      (2)   If the Board finds from such investigation and hearing that the
public convenience and necessity do justify the operation of the vehicle or
vehicles for which license is desired, it shall forthwith so notify the
applicant.
      (3)   Within 60 days thereafter, the applicant shall furnish and file
with the Director of Code Enforcement the following:
         (a)   A full description of each vehicle for which license is desired,
the name of the current and previous owner and the state license number of each
such vehicle;
         (b)   An unexpired official certificate from an authorized motor
vehicle inspection station of the city or a neighboring city or a state vehicle
inspection that states that each such vehicle has been inspected and tested and
found to meet the standards of safety fixed by state law and that each such
vehicle is roadworthy and safe for operation as a taxicab;
         (c)   The name of each person who will operate such taxicabs with the
taxicab operator/driver’s license number of each such person, along with a
sworn affidavit that all drivers, present and future, do not and will not have
any convictions for an offense of violence, as defined in R.C. § 2901.01, a
felony drug conviction, a felony theft conviction, a felony sexual offense or a
driving while under the influence of drugs and/or alcohol conviction per
guidelines issued by the Board; and
         (d)   A policy or policies of liability insurance issued for the life
of the license applied for, or longer, by a responsible insurance company,
approved as to sufficiency by the Board Treasurer and as to legality by the
solicitor, covering the taxicab and its owner and taxicab operator/driver for
liability for loss resulting from the operation of each such taxicab to the
extent of $50,000 on account of injury or death of one person in any one
accident; $100,000 on account of injury or death of more than one person in any
one accident; $50,000 for property damage caused in any one accident.
   (B)   In lieu of the policies of insurance above described, applicant may
furnish a bond binding the principal and sureties to liability for damages to
the extent of $50,000, $100,000 and $50,000 respectively, as above set forth,
with at least two approved personal sureties or one approved corporate surety
approved as to legality by the solicitor.
   (C)   Thereupon, the Board shall examine such supporting information and
documents, and being satisfied that the applicant is the owner of any such
vehicle, that the same is a safe and fit conveyance, and that satisfactory
liability insurance or bond has been issued and is in force thereon, it shall,
upon payment of the prescribed taxicab business license fee, issue a license to
the applicant, to be signed by the Board Treasurer, Board Secretary and the
City Manager.
   (D)   Taxicab business licenses are non-transferable. A certified copy of
such license shall be exhibited at all times in a prominent place in each
taxicab.
   (E)   It is the responsibility of the taxicab business owner to inform the
Board of any major changes in business operation, including, but not limited
to, change of address or change in medical or psychological condition of the
owner or any driver which would impact on the ability to operate a taxicab.
(Prior Code, § 11.05.04) Penalty, see §
114.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see R.C. § 2901.23
§ 114.05 TAXICAB STANDS; CALL STATIONS.
   At the time of issuing the license, the Chair may designate regular parking
spaces for the taxicab or taxicabs licensed to stand, and he or she may
prescribe rules for usage of such stands suitable to applicant’s business and
agreeable with the public convenience and welfare. He or she may authorize
installation of call stations at convenient locations.
(Prior Code, § 11.05.05)
§ 114.06 RATES; RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Board may establish schedules of maximum rates to charge passengers for
transportation, establish or change passenger rates, determine additional
charges for luggage and cargo, review rate changes requested in writing by a
taxi company owner and may adopt such rules and regulations for the conduct of
the business of licensed taxicab operators as may be suitable to such business
and for the promotion of the public convenience and general welfare of the City
Council at any time, by administrative order, may establish, amend, modify or
rescind any such rate, requirement, rule or regulation.
(Prior Code, § 11.05.06)
§ 114.07 DISPLAYING RATES; EXCESSIVE CHARGES.
   Every taxicab shall display, at all times, a printed list of the fares and
rates to be charged to passengers for transportation; and it shall be unlawful
for any owner or driver to charge an amount in excess of such printed rates
unless by mutual agreement between passenger and driver entered into before
leaving the point of departure.
(Prior Code, § 11.05.07)
§ 114.08 ALL TAXICAB DRIVERS TO BE LICENSED.
   (A)   Except for automotive technicians performing maintenance on a taxicab,
no person under 21 years of age and no person other than a driver duly licensed
as such under the laws of the state and having a valid city issued taxicab
operator driver’s license shall operate a taxicab on any street of the city.
Anyone operating a taxicab without a taxicab operator/driver’s license shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor in the fourth degree.
   (B)   Each driver of a taxicab shall obtain from the Secretary of the Board
a taxicab operator/driver’s license application and shall pay the required fee
of $10. The fee shall be collected at the time such application is filed and an
investigation will be concluded before the license is issued.
      (1)   The application will include a copy of the current state driver’s
license, Social Security number and any other requested information.
      (2)   The application will be investigated for accuracy by the Police
Department and will include a local records check.
      (3)   A BCI&I criminal history check must be submitted with the
application; subsequent BCI&I criminal history check must be submitted annually
by each taxicab operator/driver to the Secretary of the Board (Chief of
Police).
   (C)   Applicants and current licenses must be free of any conviction for an
offense of violence, as defined in R.C. § 2901.01, a felony drug conviction, a
felony theft conviction, a felony sexual offense or a driving while under the
influence of drugs and/or alcohol conviction per guidelines issued by the
Board. Applicants must also have a good driving record.
   (D)   The taxicab operator/driver’s license shall be prominently displayed
in the taxicab.
   (E)   Taxicab business licenses and operator driver’s license shall expire a
December 31st of the year the license was issued.
   (F)   This section does not apply when riders are picked up from or
delivered to points outside the city.
   (G)   The taxi company owner will be responsible for reporting any felony or
DUI conviction of their employees. Failure to report may be grounds for the
suspension of the taxicab business license.
(Prior Code, § 11.05.08) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.09 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Whenever a licensee shall violate a provision of this chapter or any rules,
regulation or lawful order of the Board shall, for a period of 60 days, fail to
make a reasonable or consistent effort to operate any taxicab or taxicabs,
fails to maintain the required insurance, fails to maintain the vehicle in a
safe operating condition or fails to abide by the sworn affidavit in §
114.04(A)(2)(c), or if the Board deems that continued performance by the
license holder is a threat to public safety, the Board Chair shall have power
to temporarily suspend pending an hearing or revoke, following a Board hearing.
This power to suspend or revoke shall not limit the powers granted to the City
Manager elsewhere in this code.
(Prior Code, § 11.05.09)
§ 114.10 APPEAL AND REVIEW.
   (A)   In case any applicant has been denied a license, or if his or her
license has been revoked or suspended, the applicant or licensee as the case
may be, shall, within three business days, have the right to appeal to the City
Council of the city from such denial, revocation or suspension. Notice of
appeal shall be filed in writing with the Treasurer who shall fix the time and
place for hearing, the same to be not later than one week thereafter.
   (B)   The Treasurer shall notify the City Manager and all members of City
Council of the time and place of such hearing not less than 12 hours in advance
thereof. Three members of City Council shall constitute a quorum to hear such
appeal. The appellant may appear and be heard in person or by City Council. If,
after the hearing, a majority of the members of City Council present at such
meeting declare in favor of the applicant, such license shall be forthwith
issued or fully reinstated as the case may be; otherwise the order appealed
from shall become final.
(Prior Code, § 11.05.10)
§ 114.11 RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   All owners of taxicabs hereby licensed, at the completion of the year
for which such license was issued, shall be entitled to a renewal for each
succeeding year without a finding of convenience and necessity providing all
other requirements of this code have been complied with.
   (B)   All drivers hereby licensed as taxicab operator/drivers, at the
completion of the year for which license was issued, shall be entitled to a
renewal for each succeeding year provided all other requirements of this code
have been complied with.
   (C)   All taxicab vehicle licenses, at the completion of the year for which
such license was issued, shall be entitled to a renewal for each succeeding
year providing all other requirements of this code have been complied with and
a current vehicle inspection will be required and a current proof of insurance
will be required before a renewal is issued.
(Prior Code, § 11.05.11)
§ 114.12 INSPECTION.
   (A)   The Police Department may inspect any taxi or taxi driver at any time.
Such inspection will be for the purpose of determining:
      (1)   The taxi business license is current;
      (2)   The taxi operator/driver is licensed;
      (3)   The taxi is in safe operating condition per state motor vehicle
inspection standards; and
      (4)   The operator/driver is not in violation of §
114.04(A)(2)(c) or §
114.07.
   (B)   Failure to pass an inspection for any reason listed in section (A)
above or any other violation of the taxicab regulations found during the
inspection or revocation of the license pursuant to §
114.09.
(Prior Code, § 11.05.12)
§ 114.13 GROUP RIDING AND LOAD RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No driver or operator of any taxicab operated under license of the
city, except with the consent of the first party engaging the taxicab, shall
accept other parties for transportation in the same taxicab to different
destinations as that for which it shall have been engaged by the first party.
   (B)   No taxicab operated in the city shall carry more adult passengers,
including the driver, than its rated seating capacity.
(Prior Code, § 11.05.13) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.14 DRIVERS NOT TO REFUSE SERVICE.
   No driver of a taxicab, when on duty and not engaged in rendering taxicab
service to another, shall refuse to furnish trip service on demand for lawful
reasons to any orderly person unless the person has been banned from service by
the taxicab company.
(Prior Code, § 11.05.14) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.15 RECEIPTS TO BE FURNISHED UPON REQUEST.
   No driver of a taxicab operating under a license granted by the city, if
requested, shall refuse to deliver to the person paying for hire of the same,
at the time of payment, a correct receipt therefor. Upon this receipt shall be
legibly printed or written the name of the owner, a method of identifying the
taxicab and its driver, all items for which the charge is made, the total
amount paid and the date of payment. Every taxicab owner shall supply each of
his or her taxicab drivers with blank receipts assembled in book form in such a
manner so that for every receipt issued there will be a carbon duplicate or
stub retained in such receipt book. Such duplicate receipt or stub shall be
retained by the taxicab owner for at least six months.
(Prior Code, § 11.05.15) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.16 TRANSPORTING ILLEGAL DRUGS OR OPEN CONTAINERS OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
PROHIBITED.
   No taxicab operator/driver shall knowingly or recklessly use any taxicab to
pick up or deliver illegal drugs or open containers of alcoholic beverages.
Possession of such material within any taxicab may be grounds for the
suspension of the license of such taxicab, the suspension of the taxicab
operator/driver’s license and the taxicab business license, in addition to any
other criminal penalties. Whosoever violates this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(Prior Code, § 11.05.16) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.17 FAILURE TO PAY FARE.
   No person shall refuse to pay the legal fare of any taxicab after having
hired the same. No person shall hire any taxicab with intent to defraud the
person from whom it is hired of the value of such service.
(Prior Code, § 11.05.17) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.18 FALSIFICATION.
   Any person who supplies false information on an application for a license in
this section shall be guilty of falsification, a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(Prior Code, § 11.05.18)
§ 114.19 EXCLUSIONS.
   The taxicab regulations do not apply to companies making one-way transports
of persons from or to the city to or from points outside the city.
(Prior Code, § 11.05.19)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any violation of this chapter, unless otherwise designated or
violation of a section for which no specific penalty is identified, shall be
deemed a minor misdemeanor pursuant to R.C. § 2929.21(D), and each day of
continued violation is deemed a complete and separate offense.
      (2)   Where designated or where the violation regards business licensing,
the violation shall be deemed an organizational offense pursuant to §§
10.33 and
10.34 and R.C. § 2901.23.
(Prior Code, § 11.05.99)
   (B)   Any taxicab business operating without a taxicab business license or
in violation of any other section of this chapter will be guilty of an
organizational minor misdemeanor. Each day of operating without a license will
be considered a separate offense. A subsequent offense within a two-year period
will be considered an organizational fourth degree misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 11.05.04)
   (C)   Whosoever violates §
114.17 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(Prior Code, § 11.05.17)
CHAPTER 115: AMUSEMENTS
Section
   
115.01   Circuses, menageries, carnivals and the like
   
115.02   Deposit required
   
115.03   License fee may be waived in civic interest
§ 115.01 CIRCUSES, MENAGERIES, CARNIVALS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Each person, desiring to conduct, stage or give a circus, menagerie,
carnival, sideshow, musical or minstrel entertainment or other exhibition of a
transient nature, for which an admission charge is demanded or received, shall
first obtain a license and pay the license fee or fees provided in §
110.02 herein.
   (B)   The applicant for a license to conduct, stage or give such exhibition
shall give at least one weeks’ notice, in writing, to the City Manager, stating
the dates of the performance and the location at which they are to be
presented. The City Manager shall give his or her consent to the issuance of
such license if he or she deems the location suitable for the purpose; that it
will properly accommodate the patrons; that the nature of the performance or
exhibition is morally proper; and the use of said location will not throw too
great a burden upon the Police and Fire Departments.
   (C)   No circus, menagerie or carnival shall be given for more than two
consecutive days, except in cases where City Council, by special resolution,
shall allow a longer period, or where such exhibition is to be conducted on
city property and the use thereof for a longer period shall have been approved
by City Council.
   (D)   These regulations are intended to supplement those required for
transient vending, peddling and soliciting contained in Chapter 113.
(Prior Code, § 11.03.01) Penalty, see §
10.30
Cross-reference:
   Schedule of fees, see §
110.02
§ 115.02 DEPOSIT REQUIRED.
   At the time such application for a license is made, where use of grounds is
contemplated, the applicant shall deposit with the Treasurer a cash bond of not
less than $100, nor more than $500, conditioned upon the restoration and
cleaning up of the grounds in a manner satisfactory to the city government. In
the event said grounds shall be restored and cleaned up properly following the
exhibition, the deposit shall be returned; otherwise, the same shall be
forfeited to the city. Any amount required in addition to the deposit shall be
the responsibility of the license holder and the additional amount billed to
said license holder.
(Prior Code, § 11.03.02) Penalty, see §
10.30
§ 115.03 LICENSE FEE MAY BE WAIVED IN CIVIC INTEREST.
   The City Manager, in his or her discretion, may authorize the Treasurer to
grant without cost a license for the holding of a circus, carnival, sideshow,
musical or minstrel entertainment or public dance for not more than six
consecutive days, where all of the performances are fostered and supervised by
civic interests of said city, and a substantial part of the funds derived
therefrom is expended for charitable or civic purposes.
(Prior Code, § 11.03.03)
CHAPTER 116: CONTRACTORS
Section
   
116.01   Purpose
   
116.02   Definitions
   
116.03   Registration required
   
116.04   City income tax registration required
   
116.05   Licensure with the State Contractor Industry Licensing Board required
   
116.06   Fees
   
116.07   Term and renewal
   
116.08   Assignment, transfer, use by third person
   
116.09   Suspension and revocation
   
116.10   Exceptions
   
116.11   Right of appeal
§ 116.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter shall be applicable to all businesses and individuals, unless
otherwise exempted, who perform construction, repair and alteration services
for buildings and facilities as herein defined and for the purpose of
protecting the health, safety and general welfare of the citizens of the city;
to efficiently collect information for purposes of income taxation as required
by §§
36.15 through
36.31 and to protect, enhance and preserve the value of property within the
city.
(Prior Code, § 11.09.01)
§ 116.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DECK. Those persons, businesses or companies that provide services to
install, repair or replace an exterior floor system supported on at least two
opposing sides by adjoining structure and/or posts, piers or other independent
supports.
   DEMOLITION/HAULING. Those persons, businesses or companies that provide
services to demolish structures and remove construction materials from a
specific location.
   DRYWALL/PLASTER. Those persons, businesses or companies that provide drywall
(gypsum board) or cement plaster installation, repair or replacement in or on a
building structure.
   ELECTRICIAN. Those persons, businesses or companies that provide services to
install, repair or replace electrical apparatus or appurtenances within or
about a building structure or specific location.
   EXCAVATOR/TAPPER. Those persons, businesses or companies that provide
services to remove, replace, compact or grade earth for construction projects
and to install, tap into, repair or replace sewer, water, gas or other
utilities lines or cables.
   FIRE/SECURITY DETECTION AND SUPPRESSION. Those persons, businesses or
companies that provide services to install, repair, test and replace fire or
security detection equipment, reporting devices, fire sprinklers and piping,
stand pipes, fire suppression equipment and suppression hoods.
   FRAMING. Those persons, businesses or companies that provide services to
install, repair or replace structural components, beams, framework or deck work
in a building structure.
   GENERAL CONTRACTOR. Those persons, businesses or companies that directly
engage in building construction and/or hire subcontractors to provide
construction services involving home improvement, specialty or skilled trades,
either on one-, two- or three-family dwellings or on projects where
registration is required under R.C. Chapter 4740 and permitting under O.A.C.
Chapter 4101. A GENERAL CONTRACTOR may perform limited work, as the City
Manager determines, on projects that are listed under the specialty or skilled
trade category. However, all work that involves more than limited work must be
completed by persons, businesses or companies registered with the city and
under the applicable skilled trade category for projects requiring permitting
under O.A.C. Chapter 4101.
   GUTTER/SPOUTING. Those persons, businesses or companies that provide
installation, repair or replacement on any system of water collection or
diversion of water from a roof system through drain lines on or about a
building or structure.
   HOME IMPROVEMENT CONTRACTOR or SPECIALTY CONTRACTOR. Those persons,
businesses or companies that directly engage in specific construction
activities, alterations or renovations. HOME IMPROVEMENT or SPECIALTY
CONTRACTORS are permitted to perform limited work, as determined by the City
Manager, on one-, two- and three-family residential projects and those projects
that are otherwise listed under the skilled trades category. However, all work
that involves more than limited work must be completed by persons, businesses
or companies registered under the applicable skilled trade category and
licensed with the State Construction Industry Licensing Board (OCILB).
   HVAC. Those persons, businesses or companies that provide services to
install, repair or replace heating, ventilating and air-conditioning systems
within a building.
   HYDRONICS. Those persons, businesses or companies that provide services to
install, repair or replace fluid, steam or gas pressure piping systems within a
structure.
   LANDSCAPING. Those persons, businesses or companies that provide the
installation of lawns, tree, shrubbery or bushes at or about building
construction sites or are engaged in the care, maintenance or removal of
existing landscaping features.
   MASONRY/CEMENT/ASPHALT. Those persons, businesses or companies that provide
services for installation of block, bricks, stone, cement or asphalt at or on a
building structure or construction site.
   PLUMBER. Those persons, businesses or companies that provide services to
install, repair or replace pipes and fixtures used to transport water and
sewage within or about a building structure or property.
   REFRIGERATION. Those persons, businesses or companies that provide services
to install, repair and replace systems that vaporize and liquefy a fluid used
for refrigerated storage systems and other components attached.
   ROOFING. Those persons, businesses or companies that provide services to
install replace or repair a system designed to provide weather protection and
resistance to design loads consisting of roof decking, vapor retarder,
substrate and roof covering.
   SIDING. Those persons, businesses or companies that provide services to
install, replace or repair a covering material on the exterior of building
structures as to protect the structure against weather elements.
   SIGN AND GRAPHICS. Those persons, businesses or companies that provide
services to install, repair, replace or modify publicly displayed boards that
contain information, advertising or symbols including any form of visual
artistic representation.
   SKILLED TRADES CONTRACTOR.
      (1)   Those persons, businesses or companies that directly engage in
activities requiring licensing pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4740, Construction
Industry Licensing Board or similar activities on one-, two- and three-family
construction where no state licensing is required.
      (2)   Types of home improvement and specialty contractors.
   SWIMMING POOL. Those persons, businesses or companies that provide services
to dig and install, repair or replace indoor or outdoor tank(s) of water and
pumping and filtering equipment used for human swimming purposes.
   WATERPROOFING. Those persons, businesses or companies that provide services
to install, apply or remove materials applied to building foundations, walls
and floors to prevent the penetration of water into the interior of a building
structure.
   WINDOWS.
      (1)   Those persons, business or companies that provide services to
install, repair or replace framed glass structures installed on the exterior of
building structures.
      (2)   Types of skilled trade contractors.
(Prior Code, § 11.09.02)
§ 116.03 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   All general, home improvement, specialty and skilled trade contractors or
subcontractors who do work in the city shall register with the City Manager
upon such forms and including such information as the City Manager may deem
necessary in order to accomplish the purpose of this chapter. Upon review and
approval of a perfected application, the City Manager shall cause a certificate
of registration to be issued verifying compliance.
(Prior Code, § 11.09.03)
§ 116.04 CITY INCOME TAX REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   All general, home improvement, specialty and skilled trade contractors
or subcontractors who do work in the city shall register with the City Auditor
and shall present him or her a list of all employees, subcontractors,
contractors or others who may do work for them whose profits, wages or earnings
are not presently subject to withholding of the city income tax but may be
subject to such tax upon commencement of business activity.
   (B)   The City Auditor shall provide the contractor proof of income tax
registration which shall be submitted with the application for contractor
registration required herein or shall verify that the contractor is not subject
to the provisions of §§
36.15 through
36.31, for reasons, including, but not limited to, conducting business 12 or
fewer days where such activity is not subject to said regulations.
(Prior Code, § 11.09.04)
§ 116.05 LICENSURE WITH THE STATE CONTRACTOR INDUSTRY LICENSING BOARD REQUIRED.
   All skilled trades contractors subject to licensure pursuant to R.C. Chapter
4740, Construction Industry Licensing Board, shall provide such proof of
licensure with the application for registration.
(Prior Code, § 11.09.05)
§ 116.06 FEES.
   Fees for initial registration of contractors and any annual renewal fee
shall be $25 or as established by separate City Council ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 11.09.06)
Cross-reference:
   Schedule of fees, see §
110.02
§ 116.07 TERM AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   A registration certificate issued pursuant to this chapter shall be
valid from the day of issuance until December 31 of the year of issuance and
shall be renewed annually thereafter.
   (B)   There shall be no pro-rating of registration fees based upon the date
of application.
   (C)   Annual renewal may occur during the month of December but in no case
shall a contractor previously registered but lacking renewal perform any work
until such renewal is accomplished.
(Prior Code, § 11.09.07)
§ 116.08 ASSIGNMENT, TRANSFER, USE BY THIRD PERSON.
   A registered contractor shall not assign, transfer or allow any other person
to use his or her certificate of registration for any purpose. Such use shall
result in immediate suspension of the certificate until such time as the
certificate is reinstated.
(Prior Code, § 11.09.08)
§ 116.09 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   The City Manager shall revoke or suspend any certificate issued upon false
or inaccurate application; failure to maintain state licensure, if applicable;
unauthorized use of a certificate by a third- party; or failure to provide any
necessary documentation or remittance to the City Department of Income Tax.
(Prior Code, § 11.09.09)
§ 116.10 EXCEPTIONS.
   The following are exempt from the registration requirements of this chapter:
   (A)   Homeowners. No provision for registration shall be interpreted to
require that the owner of his or her established residence performing such work
upon the premises occupied is subject to this chapter. In order to verify
exemption, the City Manager may require submission of a homeowner registration
affidavit upon such forms provided by the City Manager.
   (B)   Government agencies, private industry maintenance and public
utilities. Provisions for registration shall not apply to federal, state,
county, township or municipal government agencies; to public utilities
furnishing services to the city under municipal franchise agreement; to
industrial, commercial or institutional organizations, or firms wherein a
maintenance department is performing regular and routine maintenance and
repairs. This exception for organizational exemption shall not extend to
contact service providers subject to city income tax requirements and
registration herein required shall be accomplished.
   (C)   Charitable or non-profit organizations. Any charitable or non-profit
organization constructing housing accommodations which utilize volunteers to
perform construction activities normally performed by contractors shall not be
subject to the requirements of this chapter. However, such organizations shall
provide proof of liability insurance to the City Manager. Any providers of
contract services for projects herein described shall be registered and this
exception shall not extend to any hired contractors.
   (D)   Owners of rental property. No provision of registration shall be
interpreted to require the owner of rental property performing regular
maintenance and repair on his or her own property or persons in their
employment who are covered by or exempt from workers’ compensation and whose
wages are otherwise reported to the Internal Revenue Service and the City
Income Tax Department to be subject to the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   Individuals under the age of 18 years. Individuals under the age of 18
years providing services such as lawn care, painting and other activities
required for normal property maintenance and preservation.
(Prior Code, § 11.09.10)
§ 116.11 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   Any person, organization or company aggrieved by a decision, requirement or
denial of an original [reserved].
(Prior Code, § 11.09.11)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
      
133.   SEX OFFENSES
      
134.   GAMBLING OFFENSES
      
135.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
      
136.   OFFENSES AGAINST JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
      
137.   WEAPONS CONTROL
      
138.   DRUG OFFENSES
      
139.   OFFENSES AGAINST MINORS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Definitions
   
130.02   Classification of offenses
   
130.03   Common law offenses abrogated
   
130.04   Rules of construction
   
130.05   Criminal law jurisdiction
   
130.07   Requirements for criminal liability
   
130.08   Culpable mental states
   
130.09   Attempt
   
130.10   Complicity
   
130.13   Application of Title XIII
   
130.14   Presumption of innocence; proof of offense; affirmative defense
   
130.15   Battered woman syndrome
   
130.16   Delinquency adjudications deemed convictions
   
130.17   Disposition of unclaimed or forfeited property by Police Department
   
130.18   Imposing sentence for misdemeanor
   
130.19   Multiple sentences
   
130.20   Apprehension, detention or arrest of persons on bond
   
130.21   Self defense; limitations on duty to retreat prior to using force
 
   
130.99   Penalties for misdemeanors
Statutory reference:
   Mayor’s Court generally, see R.C. Chapter 1905
   Municipal Court generally, see R.C. Chapter 1901
   Trials, Magistrate Courts, see R.C. Chapter 2938
§ 130.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTRABAND. Any property that is illegal for a person to acquire or possess
under a statute, ordinance, or rule, or that a trier of fact lawfully
determines to be illegal to possess by reason of the property’s involvement in
an offense. The term includes but is not limited to all of the following:
      (1)   Any controlled substance, as defined in R.C. § 3719.01, or any
device or paraphernalia related thereto;
      (2)   Any unlawful gambling device or paraphernalia; and
      (3)   Any dangerous ordnance or obscene material.
   DANGEROUS OFFENDER. A person who has committed an offense, whose history,
character and condition reveal a substantial risk that he or she will be a
danger to others, and whose conduct has been characterized by a pattern of
repetitive, compulsive or aggressive behavior with heedless indifference to the
consequences.
   DEADLY FORCE. Any force that carries a substantial risk that it will
proximately result in the death of any person.
   FORCE. Any violence, compulsion or constraint physically exerted by any
means upon or against a person or thing.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any of the following:
      (1)   A sheriff, deputy sheriff, constable, police officer of a township
or joint police district, Marshal, deputy marshal, municipal police officer,
member of a police force employed by a metropolitan housing authority under
R.C. § 3735.31(D) or state highway patrol trooper;
      (2)   An officer, agent or employee of the state or any of its agencies,
instrumentalities or political subdivisions, upon whom, by statute, a duty to
conserve the peace or to enforce all or certain laws is imposed and the
authority to arrest violators is conferred, within the limits of such statutory
duty and authority;
      (3)   The Mayor, in a capacity as chief conservator of the peace within
the municipality;
      (4)   A member of an auxiliary police force organized by the county,
township or municipal law enforcement authorities, within the scope of the
member’s appointment or commission;
      (5)   A person lawfully called pursuant to R.C. § 311.07 to aid a sheriff
in keeping the peace, for the purposes and during the time when the person is
called;
      (6)   A person appointed by a Mayor pursuant to R.C. § 737.01 as a
special patrolling officer during a riot or emergency, for the purposes and
during the time when the person is appointed;
      (7)   A member of the organized militia of this state or the armed forces
of the United States, lawfully called to duty to aid civil authorities in
keeping the peace or protect against domestic violence;
      (8)   A prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, secret
service officer or municipal prosecutor;
      (9)   A veterans’ home police officer appointed under R.C. § 5907.02;
      (10)   A member of a police force employed by a regional transit
authority under R.C. § 306.35(Y);
      (11)   A special police officer employed by a port authority under R.C. §
4582.04 or 4582.28;
      (12)   The House of Representatives Sergeant at Arms if the House of
Representatives Sergeant at Arms has arrest authority pursuant to R.C. §
101.311(E)(1) and an Assistant House of Representatives Sergeant at Arms;
      (13)   The Senate Sergeant at Arms and an Assistant Senate Sergeant at
Arms; and
      (14)   A special police officer employed by a municipal corporation at a
municipal airport, or other municipal air navigation facility, that has
scheduled operations, as defined in 14 C.F.R. § 119.3, as amended, and that is
required to be under a security program and is governed by aviation security
rules of the Transportation Security Administration of the United States
Department of Transportation as provided in 49 C.F.R. parts 1542 and 1544, as
amended.
   NOT GUILTY BY REASON OF INSANITY. A person is “not guilty by reason of
insanity” relative to a charge of an offense only if the person proves, in the
manner specified in R.C. § 2901.05, that at the time of the commission of the
offense, he or she did not know, as a result of a severe mental disease or
defect, the wrongfulness of his or her acts.
   OFFENSE OF VIOLENCE.
      (1)   A violation of R.C. §§ 2903.01, 2903.02, 2903.03, 2903.04, 2903.11,
2903.12, 2903.13, 2903.15, 2903.21, 2903.211, 2903.22, 2905.01, 2905.02,
2905.11, 2905.32, 2907.02, 2907.03, 2907.05, 2909.02, 2909.03, 2909.24,
2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2917.01, 2917.02, 2917.03, 2917.31, 2919.25,
2921.03, 2921.04, 2921.34 or 2923.161, of division (A)(1) of R.C. § 2903.34, of
division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3) of R.C. § 2911.12, or of division (B)(1), (B)
(2), (B)(3) or (B)(4) of R.C. § 2919.22, or felonious sexual penetration in
violation of former R.C. § 2907.12;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States, substantially equivalent to
any section, division or offense listed in division (1) of this definition;
      (3)   An offense, other than a traffic offense, under an existing or
former municipal ordinance or law of this or any other state or of the United
States, committed purposely or knowingly, and involving physical harm to
persons or a risk of serious physical harm to persons; and
      (4)   A conspiracy or attempt to commit, or complicity in committing, any
offense under division (1), (2) or (3) of this definition.
   PERSON.
      (1)   (a)   Subject to division (2) of this definition, as used in any
section contained in Title XIII of this code that sets forth a criminal
offense, the term includes all of the following:
            1.   An individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership and association; and
            2.   An unborn human who is viable.
         (b)   As used in any section contained in Title XIII of this code that
does not set forth a criminal offense, the term includes an individual,
corporation, business trust, estate, partnership and association.
         (c)   As used in division (1)(a)2. of this definition, UNBORN HUMAN
means an individual organism of the species Homo sapiens from fertilization
until live birth. VIABLE means the stage of development of a human fetus at
which there is a realistic probability of maintaining and nourishing of a life
outside the womb with or without temporary artificial life-sustaining support.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (1)(a) of this definition, in no case
shall the portion of the definition of the term “person” that is set forth in
division (1)(a)2. of this definition be applied or construed in any section
contained in Title XIII of this code that sets forth a criminal offense in any
of the following manners:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (2)(a) of this
definition, in a manner so that the offense prohibits or is construed as
prohibiting any pregnant woman or her physician from performing an abortion
with the consent of the pregnant woman, with the consent of the pregnant woman
implied by law in a medical emergency or with the approval of one otherwise
authorized by law to consent to medical treatment on behalf of the pregnant
woman. An abortion that violates the conditions described in the immediately
preceding sentence may be punished as a violation of R.C. § 2903.01, 2903.02,
2903.03, 2903.04, 2903.05, 2903.06, 2903.08, 2903.11, 2903.12, 2903.13,
2903.14, 2903.21 or 2903.22, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, as applicable. An abortion that does not violate the conditions
described in the second immediately preceding sentence but that does violate
R.C. § 2919.12, 2919.13(B), 2919.15, 2919.151, 2919.17 or 2919.18, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, may be punished as a violation of
such section, as applicable. Consent is sufficient under this division if it is
of the type otherwise adequate to permit medical treatment to the pregnant
woman, even if it does not comply with R.C. § 2919.12.
         (b)   In a manner so that the offense is applied or is construed as
applying to a woman based on an act or omission of the woman that occurs while
she is or was pregnant and that results in any of the following:
            1.   Her delivery of a stillborn baby;
            2.   Her causing, in any other manner, the death in utero of a
viable, unborn human that she is carrying;
            3.   Her causing the death of her child who is born alive but who
dies from one or more injuries that are sustained while the child is a viable,
unborn human;
            4.   Her causing her child who is born alive to sustain one or more
injuries while the child is a viable, unborn human; and
            5.   Her causing, threatening to cause, or attempting to cause, in
any other manner, an injury, illness or other psychological illness or
condition, regardless of its duration or gravity, to a viable, unborn human
that she is carrying.
   PHYSICAL HARM TO PERSONS. Any injury, illness or other physiological
impairment, regardless of its gravity or duration.
   PHYSICAL HARM TO PROPERTY. Any tangible or intangible damage to property
that, in any degree, results in loss to its value or interferes with its use or
enjoyment. The term does not include wear and tear occasioned by normal use.
   PRIVILEGE. An immunity, license or right conferred by law, or bestowed by
express or implied grant, or arising out of status, position, office or
relationship, or growing out of necessity.
   PROPERTY.
      (1)   Any property, real or personal, tangible or intangible, and any
interest or license in that property. The term includes, but is not limited to,
cable television service, other telecommunications service, telecommunications
devices, information service, computers, data, computer software, financial
instruments associated with computers, other documents associated with
computers or copies of the documents, whether in machine or human-readable
form, trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights, patents and property protected by
a trademark, copyright or patent. “Financial instruments associated with
computers” include, but are not limited to, checks, drafts, warrants, money
orders, notes of indebtedness, certificates of deposit, letters of credit,
bills of credit or debit cards, financial transaction authorization mechanisms,
marketable securities or any computer system representations of any of them.
      (2)   As used in this definition, “trade secret” has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 1333.61, and “telecommunications service” and “information service”
have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      (3)   As used in this definition and in the definition of “contraband” in
this section, “cable television service”, “computer”, “computer network”,
“computer software”, “computer system”, “data” and “telecommunications device”
have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   REPEAT OFFENDER. A person who has a history of persistent criminal activity
and whose character and condition reveal a substantial risk that he or she will
commit another offense. It is prima facie evidence that a person is a repeat
offender if any of the following applies:
      (1)   Having been convicted of one or more offenses of violence, as
defined in R.C. § 2901.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent offense of
violence;
      (2)   Having been convicted of one or more sexually oriented offenses, as
defined in R.C. § 2950.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent sexually oriented
offense;
      (3)   Having been convicted of one or more theft offenses, as defined in
R.C. § 2913.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for one or more
of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent theft offense;
      (4)   Having been convicted of one or more felony drug abuse offenses, as
defined in R.C. § 2925.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent felony drug abuse
offense;
      (5)   Having been convicted of two or more felonies, and having been
imprisoned pursuant to sentence for any such offense, he or she commits a
subsequent offense; and
      (6)   Having been convicted of three or more offenses of any type or
degree other than traffic offenses, alcoholic intoxication offenses or minor
misdemeanors, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for any such
offense, he or she commits a subsequent offense.
   RISK. A significant possibility, as contrasted with a remote possibility,
that a certain result may occur or that certain circumstances may exist.
   SCHOOL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   SCHOOL ACTIVITY. Any activity held under the auspices of a board of
education of a city, local, exempted village, joint vocational or cooperative
education school district; a governing authority of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314; a governing board of an educational
service center; or the governing body of a nonpublic school for which the State
Board of Education prescribes minimum standards under R.C. § 3301.07.
   SCHOOL BUILDING. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   SCHOOL BUS. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   SCHOOL PREMISES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   SCHOOL SAFETY ZONE. Consists of a school, school building, school premises,
school activity and school bus.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO PERSONS. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any mental illness or condition of such gravity as would normally
require hospitalization or prolonged psychiatric treatment;
      (2)   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death;
      (3)   Any physical harm that involves some permanent incapacity, whether
partial or total, or that involves some temporary, substantial incapacity;
      (4)   Any physical harm that involves some permanent disfigurement, or
that involves some temporary, serious disfigurement; and
      (5)   Any physical harm that involves acute pain of such duration as to
result in substantial suffering, or that involves any degree of prolonged or
intractable pain.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO PROPERTY. Any physical harm to property that does
either of the following:
      (1)   Results in substantial loss to the value of the property, or
requires a substantial amount of time, effort, or money to repair or replace;
and
      (2)   Temporarily prevents the use or enjoyment of the property, or
substantially interferes with its use or enjoyment for an extended period of
time.
   SUBSTANTIAL RISK. A strong possibility, as contrasted with a remote or
significant possibility, that a certain result may occur or that certain
circumstances may exist.
(R.C. §§ 2901.01, 2935.36(E)) (Prior Code, § 9.01.01)
§ 130.02 CLASSIFICATION OF OFFENSES.
   As used in this Title:
   (A)   Offenses include misdemeanors of the first, second, third and fourth
degree, minor misdemeanors and offenses not specifically classified.
   (B)   Regardless of the penalty that may be imposed, any offense
specifically classified as a misdemeanor is a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Any offense not specifically classified is a misdemeanor if
imprisonment for not more than one year may be imposed as a penalty.
   (D)   Any offense not specifically classified is a minor misdemeanor if the
only penalty that may be imposed is one of the following:
      (1)   For an offense committed prior to January 1, 2004, a fine not
exceeding $100; and
      (2)   For an offense committed on or after January 1, 2004, a fine not
exceeding $150, community service under R.C. § 2929.27(D), or a financial
sanction other than a fine under R.C. § 2929.28.
(R.C. § 2901.02) (Prior Code, § 9.01.02)
§ 130.03 COMMON LAW OFFENSES ABROGATED.
   (A)   No conduct constitutes a criminal offense against the municipality
unless it is defined as an offense in this code.
   (B)   An offense is defined when one or more sections of this code state a
positive prohibition or enjoin a specific duty, and provide a penalty for
violation of such prohibition or failure to meet such duty.
   (C)   This section does not affect the power of a court to punish for
contempt or to employ any sanction authorized by law to enforce an order, civil
judgment or decree.
(R.C. § 2901.03) (Prior Code, § 9.01.03)
§ 130.04 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C) or (D) below, sections of
this code defining offenses or penalties shall be strictly construed against
the municipality and liberally construed in favor of the accused.
   (B)   Rules of criminal procedure and sections of this code providing for
criminal procedure shall be construed so as to effect the fair, impartial,
speedy and sure administration of justice.
   (C)   Any provision of a section of this code that refers to a previous
conviction of or plea of guilty to a violation of a section of this code, the
Ohio Revised Code or a division of a section of this code or the Ohio Revised
Code shall be construed to also refer to a previous conviction of or plea of
guilty to a substantially equivalent offense under an existing or former law of
this municipality, state, another state or the United States or under an
existing or former municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Any provision of this code that refers to a section, or to a division
of a section, of this code that defines or specifies a criminal offense shall
be construed to also refer to an existing or former law of this state, another
state or the United States, to an existing or former municipal ordinance, or to
an existing or former division of any such existing or former law or ordinance
that defines or specifies, or that defined or specified, a substantially
equivalent offense.
(R.C. § 2901.04) (Prior Code, § 9.01.04)
§ 130.05 CRIMINAL LAW JURISDICTION.
   (A)   A person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in this
municipality if any of the following occur:
      (1)   The person commits an offense under the laws of this municipality,
any element of which takes place in this municipality;
      (2)   While in this municipality, the person attempts to commit, or is
guilty of complicity in the commission of, an offense in another jurisdiction,
which offense is an offense under both the laws of this municipality and the
other jurisdiction, or, while in this municipality, the person conspires to
commit an offense in another jurisdiction, which offense is an offense under
both the laws of this municipality and the other jurisdiction, and a
substantial overt act in furtherance of the conspiracy is undertaken in this
municipality by the person or another person involved in the conspiracy,
subsequent to the person’s entrance into the conspiracy. In any case in which a
person attempts to commit, is guilty of complicity in the commission of or
conspires to commit an offense in another jurisdiction as described in this
division, the person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in this
municipality for the attempt, complicity or conspiracy, and for any resulting
offense that is committed or completed in the other jurisdiction;
      (3)   While out of this municipality, the person conspires or attempts to
commit, or is guilty of complicity in the commission of, an offense in this
municipality;
      (4)   While out of this municipality, the person omits to perform a legal
duty imposed by the laws of this municipality, which omission affects a
legitimate interest of the municipality in protecting, governing or regulating
any person, property, thing, transaction or activity in this municipality;
      (5)   While out of this municipality, the person unlawfully takes or
retains property and subsequently brings any of the unlawfully taken or
retained property into this municipality;
      (6)   While out of this municipality, the person unlawfully takes or
entices another person and subsequently brings the other person into this
municipality; and
      (7)   The person, by means of a computer, computer system, computer
network, telecommunication, telecommunications device, telecommunications
service or information service, causes or knowingly permits any writing, data,
image or other telecommunication to be disseminated or transmitted into this
municipality in violation of the law of this state or municipality.
   (B)   In homicide, the element referred to in division (A)(1) above includes
the act that causes death, the physical contact that causes death, the death
itself or any other element that is set forth in the offense in question. If
any part of the body of a homicide victim is found in this municipality, the
death is presumed to have occurred within this municipality.
   (C)   (1)   This municipality includes the land and water within its
boundaries and the air space above that land and water, with respect to which
this municipality has either exclusive or concurrent legislative jurisdiction.
Where the boundary between this municipality and another jurisdiction is
disputed, the disputed territory is conclusively presumed to be within this
municipality for purposes of this section.
      (2)   (a)   The courts of common pleas of Adams, Athens, Belmont, Brown,
Clermont, Columbiana, Gallia, Hamilton, Jefferson, Lawrence, Meigs, Monroe,
Scioto and Washington counties have jurisdiction beyond the north or northwest
shore of the Ohio River extending to the opposite shore line, between the
extended boundary lines of any adjacent counties or adjacent state.
         (b)   Each of those courts of common pleas has concurrent jurisdiction
on the Ohio River with any adjacent court of common pleas that borders on that
river and with any court of Kentucky or of West Virginia that borders on the
Ohio River and that has jurisdiction on the Ohio River under the law of
Kentucky or the law of West Virginia, whichever is applicable, or under federal
law.
   (D)   When an offense is committed under the laws of this municipality, and
it appears beyond a reasonable doubt that the offense or any element of the
offense took place either in this municipality or in another jurisdiction or
jurisdictions, but it cannot reasonably be determined in which it took place,
the offense or element is conclusively presumed to have taken place in this
municipality for purposes of this section.
   (E)   When a person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in
this municipality for an offense committed or completed outside this
municipality, the person is subject to all specifications for that offense that
would be applicable if the offense had been committed within this municipality.
   (F)   Any act, conduct or element that is a basis of a person being subject
under this section to criminal prosecution and punishment in this municipality
need not be committed personally by the person as long as it is committed by
another person who is in complicity or conspiracy with the person.
   (G)   This section shall be liberally construed, consistent with
constitutional limitations, to allow this municipality the broadest possible
jurisdiction over offenses and persons committing offenses in, or affecting,
this municipality.
   (H)   For purposes of division (A)(2) above, an overt act is substantial
when it is of a character that manifests a purpose on the part of the actor
that the object of the conspiracy should be completed.
   (I)   As used in this section, COMPUTER, COMPUTER SYSTEM, COMPUTER NETWORK,
INFORMATION SERVICE, TELECOMMUNICATION, TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE,
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE, DATA and WRITING have the same meanings as in R.C.
§ 2913.01.
(R.C. § 2901.11) (Prior Code, § 9.01.05)
Statutory reference:
   State criminal law jurisdiction, see R.C. § 2901.11
§ 130.06 LIMITS OF CRIMINAL PROSECUTION.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2), (A)(3) or (A)(4) below or
as otherwise provided in this section, a prosecution shall be barred unless it
is commenced within the following periods after an offense is committed:
         (a)   For a felony, six years;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor other than a minor misdemeanor, two years; and
         (c)   For a minor misdemeanor, six months.
      (2)   There is no period of limitation for the prosecution of a violation
of R.C. § 2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (B) through (J) below, a
prosecution of any of the following offenses shall be barred unless it is
commenced within 20 years after the offense is committed:
         (a)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.03, 2903.04, 2905.01, 2905.32,
2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.21, 2909.02, 2909.22, 2909.23, 2909.24, 2909.26,
2909.27, 2909.28, 2909.29, 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2911.12 or 2917.02; a
violation of R.C. § 2903.11 or 2903.12 if the victim is a peace officer; a
violation of R.C. § 2903.13 that is a felony; or a violation of former R.C. §
2907.12.
         (b)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit or complicity in
committing a violation set forth in division (A)(3)(a) above.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (D) to (L) below, a
prosecution of a violation of R.C. §§ 2907.02 or 2907.03 or a conspiracy to
commit, attempt to commit or complicity in committing a violation of either
section shall be barred unless it is commenced within 25 years after the
offense is committed.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2) below, if the
period of limitation provided in division (A)(1) or (A)(3) above has expired,
prosecution shall be commenced for an offense of which an element is fraud or
breach of fiduciary duty within one year after discovery of the offense either
by an aggrieved person or by the aggrieved person’s legal representative who is
not a party to the offense.
      (2)   If the period of limitation provided in division (A)(1) or (A)(3)
above has expired, prosecution for a violation of R.C. § 2913.49 shall be
commenced within five years after discovery of the offense either by an
aggrieved person or the aggrieved person’s legal representative who is not a
party to the offense.
   (C)   (1)   If the period of limitation provided in division (A)(1) or (A)
(3) above has expired, prosecution shall be commenced for the following
offenses during the following specified periods of time:
         (a)   For an offense involving misconduct in office by a public
servant at any time while the accused remains a public servant, or within two
years thereafter; and
         (b)   For an offense by a person who is not a public servant but whose
offense is directly related to the misconduct in office of a public servant, at
any time while that public servant remains a public servant or within two years
thereafter.
      (2)   As used in this division:
         OFFENSE IS DIRECTLY RELATED TO THE MISCONDUCT IN OFFICE OF A PUBLIC
SERVANT. The phrase includes, but is not limited to, a violation of R.C. §§
101.71, 101.91, 121.61 or 2921.13, 102.03(F) or (H), 2921.02(A), 2921.43(A) or
(B) or 3517.13(F) or (G), that is directly related to an offense involving
misconduct in office of a public servant, or a violation of any municipal
ordinance substantially equivalent to those Ohio Revised Code sections listed
in this division (C)(2).
         PUBLIC SERVANT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.01.
   (D)   (1)   If a DNA record made in connection with the criminal
investigation of the commission of a violation of R.C. §§ 2907.02 or 2907.03 is
determined to match another DNA record that is of an identifiable person and if
the time of the determination is later than 25 years after the offense is
committed, prosecution of that person for a violation of the section may be
commenced within five years after the determination is complete.
      (2)   If a DNA record made in connection with the criminal investigation
of the commission of a violation of R.C. §§ 2907.02 or 2907.03 is determined to
match another DNA record that is of an identifiable person and if the time of
the determination is within 25 years after the offense is committed,
prosecution of that person for a violation of the section may be commenced
within the longer of 25 years after the offense is committed or five years
after the determination is complete.
      (3)   As used in this division, DNA RECORD has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 109.573.
   (E)   An offense is committed when every element of the offense occurs. In
the case of an offense of which an element is a continuing course of conduct,
the period of limitation does not begin to run until such course of conduct or
the accused’s accountability for it terminates, whichever occurs first.
   (F)   A prosecution is commenced on the date an indictment is returned or an
information filed, or on the date a lawful arrest without a warrant is made, or
on the date a warrant, summons, citation or other process is issued, whichever
occurs first. A prosecution is not commenced by the return of an indictment or
the filing of an information unless reasonable diligence is exercised to issue
and execute process on the same. A prosecution is not commenced upon issuance
of a warrant, summons, citation or other process unless reasonable diligence is
exercised to execute the same.
   (G)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time when the corpus
delicti remains undiscovered.
   (H)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time when the
accused purposely avoids prosecution. Proof that the accused departed this
municipality or conceals the accused’s identity or whereabouts is prima facie
evidence of the accused’s purpose to avoid prosecution.
   (I)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time a prosecution
against the accused based on the same conduct is pending in this state, even
though the indictment, information or process that commenced the prosecution is
quashed or the proceedings on the indictment, information or process are set
aside or reversed on appeal.
   (J)   The period of limitation for a violation of R.C. Title XIII or Title
XXIX that involves a physical or mental wound, injury, disability or condition
of a nature that reasonably indicates abuse or neglect of a child under 18
years of age or of a child with a developmental disability or physical
impairment under 21 years of age shall not begin to run until either of the
following occurs:
      (1)   The victim of the offense reaches the age of majority; or
      (2)   A public children services agency, or a municipal or county peace
officer that is not the parent or guardian of the child, in the county in which
the child resides or in which the abuse or neglect is occurring or has occurred
has been notified that abuse or neglect is known, suspected or believed to have
occurred.
   (K)   As used in this section, PEACE OFFICER has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2935.01.
   (L)   The amendments to divisions (A) and (D) above apply to a violation of
R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 committed on and after July 16, 2015, and apply to a
violation of either of those sections committed prior to July 16, 2015, if
prosecution for that violation was not barred under this section as it existed
on July 15, 2015.
(R.C. § 2901.13) (Prior Code, § 9.01.06)
Statutory reference:
   Limitation for income tax violations, see R.C. § 718.12
§ 130.07 REQUIREMENTS FOR CRIMINAL LIABILITY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, a person is not guilty of an
offense unless both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person’s liability is based on conduct that includes either a
voluntary act, or an omission to perform an act or duty that the person is
capable of performing; and
      (2)   The person has the requisite degree of culpability for each element
as to which a culpable mental state is specified by the language defining the
offense.
   (B)   When the language defining an offense does not specify any degree of
culpability, and plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict criminal
liability for the conduct described in the section, then culpability is not
required for a person to be guilty of the offense. The fact that one division
of a section plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict liability for an
offense defined in that division does not by itself plainly indicate a purpose
to impose strict criminal liability for an offense defined in other divisions
of the section that do not specify a degree of culpability.
   (C)   (1)   When language defining an element of an offense that is related
to knowledge or intent or to which mens rea could fairly be applied neither
specifies culpability nor plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict
liability, the element of the offense is established only if a person acts
recklessly.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) above does not apply to offenses defined in R.C.
Title XLV.
      (3)   Division (C)(1) above does not relieve the prosecution of the
burden of proving the culpable mental state required by any definition
incorporated into the offense.
   (D)   Voluntary intoxication may not be taken into consideration in
determining the existence of a mental state that is an element of a criminal
offense. Voluntary intoxication does not relieve a person of a duty to act if
failure to act constitutes a criminal offense. Evidence that a person was
voluntarily intoxicated may be admissible to show whether or not the person was
physically capable of performing the act with which the person is charged.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      CULPABILITY. Means purpose, knowledge, recklessness or negligence, as
defined in R.C. § 2901.22.
      INTOXICATION. Includes, but is not limited to, intoxication resulting
from the ingestion of alcohol, a drug or alcohol and a drug.
      INVOLUNTARY ACTS. Reflexes, convulsions, body movements during
unconsciousness or sleep and body movements that are not otherwise a product of
the actor’s volition are involuntary acts.
      POSSESSION. Means a voluntary act if the possessor knowingly procured or
received the thing possessed, or was aware of the possessor’s control of the
thing possessed for a sufficient time to have ended possession.
(R.C. § 2901.21) (Prior Code, § 9.01.07)
§ 130.08 CULPABLE MENTAL STATES.
   (A)   A person acts purposely when it is the person’s specific intention to
cause a certain result, or, when the gist of the offense is a prohibition
against conduct of a certain nature, regardless of what the offender intends to
accomplish thereby, it is the offender’s specific intention to engage in
conduct of that nature.
   (B)   A person acts knowingly, regardless of purpose, when the person is
aware that the person’s conduct will probably cause a certain result or will
probably be of a certain nature. A person has knowledge of circumstances when
the person is aware that such circumstances probably exist. When knowledge of
the existence of a particular fact is an element of an offense, such knowledge
is established if a person subjectively believes that there is a high
probability of its existence and fails to make inquiry or acts with a conscious
purpose to avoid learning the fact.
   (C)   A person acts recklessly when, with heedless indifference to the
consequences, the person disregards a substantial and unjustifiable risk that
the person’s conduct is likely to cause a certain result or is likely to be of
a certain nature. A person is reckless with respect to circumstances when, with
heedless indifference to the consequences, the person disregards a substantial
and unjustifiable risk that such circumstances are likely to exist.
   (D)   A person acts negligently when, because of a substantial lapse from
due care, the person fails to perceive or avoid a risk that the person’s
conduct may cause a certain result or may be of a certain nature. A person is
negligent with respect to circumstances when, because of a substantial lapse
from due care, the person fails to perceive or avoid a risk that such
circumstances may exist.
   (E)   When the section defining an offense provides that negligence suffices
to establish an element thereof, then recklessness, knowledge or purpose is
also sufficient culpability for such element.
      (1)   When recklessness suffices to establish an element of an offense,
then knowledge or purpose is also sufficient culpability for such element.
      (2)   When knowledge suffices to establish an element of an offense, then
purpose is also sufficient culpability for such element.
(R.C. § 2901.22) (Prior Code, § 9.01.08)
§ 130.09 ATTEMPT.
   (A)   No person, purposely or knowingly, and when purpose or knowledge is
sufficient culpability for the commission of an offense, shall engage in
conduct that, if successful, would constitute or result in the offense.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that, in retrospect,
commission of the offense that was the object of the attempt was either
factually or legally impossible under the attendant circumstances, if that
offense could have been committed had the attendant circumstances been as the
actor believed them to be.
   (C)   No person who is convicted of committing a specific offense, of
complicity in the commission of an offense or of conspiracy to commit an
offense, shall be convicted of an attempt to commit the same offense in
violation of this section.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that the
actor abandoned his or her effort to commit the offense or otherwise prevented
its commission, under circumstances manifesting a complete and voluntary
renunciation of his or her criminal purpose.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of an attempt to commit
an offense. An attempt to commit aggravated murder, murder or an offense for
which the maximum penalty is imprisonment for life is a felony of the first
degree, to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. An attempt to commit a
drug abuse offense for which the penalty is determined by the amount or number
of unit doses of the controlled substance involved in the drug abuse offense is
an offense of the same degree as the drug abuse offense attempted would be if
that drug abuse offense had been committed and had involved an amount or number
of unit doses of the controlled substance that is within the next lower range
of controlled substance amounts than was involved in the attempt. An attempt to
commit any other offense is an offense of the next lesser degree than the
offense attempted.
      (2)   In the case of an attempt to commit an offense other than a
violation of R.C. Chapter 3734 that is not specifically classified, an attempt
is a misdemeanor of the first degree if the offense attempted is a felony, and
a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if the offense attempted is a misdemeanor.
In the case of an attempt to commit a violation of any provision of R.C.
Chapter 3734, other than R.C. § 3734.18, that relates to hazardous wastes, an
attempt is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. An attempt to
commit a minor misdemeanor, or to engage in conspiracy, is not an offense under
this section.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
(R.C. § 2923.02) (Prior Code, § 9.01.09)
Statutory reference:
   Conspiracy, see R.C. § 2923.01
   Solid and hazardous wastes, see R.C. Chapter 3734
§ 130.10 COMPLICITY.
   (A)   No person, acting with the kind of culpability required for the
commission of an offense, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Solicit or procure another to commit the offense;
      (2)   Aid or abet another in committing the offense;
      (3)   Conspire with another to commit the offense in violation of R.C. §
2923.01; or
      (4)   Cause an innocent or irresponsible person to commit the offense.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that no person with
whom the accused was in complicity has been convicted as a principal offender.
   (C)   No person shall be convicted of complicity under this section unless
an offense is actually committed, but a person may be convicted of complicity
in an attempt to commit an offense in violation of R.C. § 2923.02 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   If an alleged accomplice of the defendant testifies against the
defendant in a case in which the defendant is charged with complicity in the
commission of or an attempt to commit an offense, an attempt to commit an
offense, or an offense, the court shall charge the jury in accordance with R.C.
§ 2923.03(D).
   (E)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that,
prior to the commission of or attempt to commit the offense, the actor
terminated his or her complicity, under circumstances manifesting a complete
and voluntary renunciation of his or her criminal purpose.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of complicity in the
commission of an offense, and shall be prosecuted and punished as if he or she
were a principal offender. A charge of complicity may be stated in terms of
this section, or in terms of the principal offense.
(R.C. § 2923.03) (Prior Code, § 9.01.10)
Statutory reference:
   Conspiracy, see R.C. § 2923.01
§ 130.11 ORGANIZATIONAL CRIMINAL LIABILITY.
   (A)   An organization may be convicted of an offense under any of the
following circumstances:
      (1)   The offense is a minor misdemeanor committed by an officer, agent
or employee of the organization acting in its behalf and within the scope of
the officer’s, agent’s or employee’s office or employment, except that if the
section defining the offense designates the officers, agents or employees for
whose conduct the organization is accountable or the circumstances under which
it is accountable, those provisions shall apply.
      (2)   A purpose to impose organizational liability plainly appears in the
section defining the offense, and the offense is committed by an officer, agent
or employee of the organization acting in its behalf and within the scope of
the officer’s, agent’s or employee’s office or employment, except that if the
section defining the offense designates the officers, agents or employees for
whose conduct the organization is accountable or the circumstances under which
it is accountable, those provisions shall apply.
      (3)   The offense consists of an omission to discharge a specific duty
imposed by law on the organization.
      (4)   If, acting with the kind of culpability otherwise required for the
commission of the offense, its commission was authorized, requested, commanded,
tolerated or performed by the board of directors, trustees, partners or by a
high managerial officer, agent or employee acting in behalf of the organization
and within the scope of such a board’s or person’s office or employment.
   (B)   If strict liability is imposed for the commission of an offense, a
purpose to impose organizational liability shall be presumed, unless the
contrary plainly appears.
   (C)   (1)   In a prosecution of an organization for an offense other than
one for which strict liability is imposed, it is a defense that the high
managerial officer, agent or employee having supervisory responsibility over
the subject matter of the offense exercised due diligence to prevent its
commission.
      (2)   This defense is not available if it plainly appears inconsistent
with the purpose of the section defining the offense.
   (D)   (1)   As used in this section, ORGANIZATION means a corporation for
profit or not for profit, partnership, limited partnership, joint venture,
unincorporated nonprofit association, estate, trust or other commercial or
legal entity.
      (2)   The term does not include an entity organized as or by a
governmental agency for the execution of a governmental program.
(R.C. § 2901.23) (Prior Code, § 9.01.11)
§ 130.12 PERSONAL ACCOUNTABILITY FOR ORGANIZATIONAL CONDUCT.
   (A)   An officer, agent or employee of an organization, as defined in R.C. §
2901.23, may be prosecuted for an offense committed by such organization, if he
or she acts with the kind of culpability required for the commission of the
offense, and any of the following apply:
      (1)   In the name of the organization or in its behalf, he or she engages
in conduct constituting the offense, or causes another to engage in such
conduct, or tolerates such conduct when it is of a type for which he or she has
direct responsibility; and
      (2)   He or she has primary responsibility to discharge a duty imposed on
the organization by law, and such duty is not discharged.
   (B)   When a person is convicted of an offense by reason of this section, he
or she is subject to the same penalty as if he or she had acted in his or her
own behalf.
(R.C. § 2901.24) (Prior Code, § 9.01.12)
§ 130.13 APPLICATION OF TITLE XIII.
   (A)   Title XIII of this code of ordinances embodies and prescribes
penalties for offenses against the municipality not classifiable in previous
titles and chapters. The word “misdemeanors”, as used in this Title, is not
exhaustive and does not imply that offenses found elsewhere in this code of
ordinances are not also misdemeanors and punishable as such.
   (B)   Each act or omission for which a fine, imprisonment or both is
provided under this Title or elsewhere in this code, or each act or omission
which is declared a violation of this code, is unlawful and is hereby made a
misdemeanor. Upon conviction, the penalty or penalties so provided shall be
imposed by the court.
§ 130.14 PRESUMPTION OF INNOCENCE; PROOF OF OFFENSE; AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE.
   (A)   Every person accused of an offense is presumed innocent until proven
guilty beyond a reasonable doubt, and the burden of proof for all elements of
the offense is upon the prosecution. The burden of going forward with the
evidence of an affirmative defense, and the burden of proof by a preponderance
of the evidence, for an affirmative defense other than self-defense, defense of
another or defense of the accused’s residence presented as described in
division (B)(1) below, is upon the accused.
   (B)   (1)   A person is allowed to act in self-defense, defense of another
or defense of that person’s residence. If, at the trial of a person who is
accused of an offense that involved the person’s use of force against another,
there is evidence presented that tends to support that the accused person used
the force in self-defense, defense of another or defense of that person’s
residence, the prosecution must prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the
accused person did not use the force in self-defense, defense of another or
defense of that person’s residence, as the case may be.
      (2)   Subject to division (B)(3) below, a person is presumed to have
acted in self-defense or defense of another when using defensive force that is
intended or likely to cause death or great bodily harm to another if the person
against whom the defensive force is used is in the process of unlawfully and
without privilege to do so entering, or has unlawfully and without privilege to
do so entered, the residence or vehicle occupied by the person using the
defensive force.
      (3)   The presumption set forth in division (B)(2) above does not apply
if either of the following is true:
         (a)   The person against whom the defensive force is used has a right
to be in, or is a lawful resident of, the residence or vehicle; and
         (b)   The person who uses the defensive force uses it while in a
residence or vehicle and the person is unlawfully, and without privilege to be,
in that residence or vehicle.
      (4)   The presumption set forth in division (B)(2) above is a rebuttable
presumption and may be rebutted by a preponderance of the evidence, provided
that the prosecution’s burden of proof remains proof beyond a reasonable doubt
as described in divisions (A) and (B)(1) above.
   (C)   As part of its charge to the jury in a criminal case, the court shall
read the definitions of “reasonable doubt” and “proof beyond a reasonable
doubt”, contained in division (E) below.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE. An affirmative defense is either of the following:
         (a)   A defense expressly designated as affirmative; and
         (b)   A defense involving an excuse or justification peculiarly within
the knowledge of the accused, on which the accused can fairly be required to
adduce supporting evidence.
      DWELLING. A building or conveyance of any kind that has a roof over it
and that is designed to be occupied by people lodging in the building or
conveyance at night, regardless of whether the building or conveyance is
temporary or permanent or is mobile or immobile. As used in this division, a
building or conveyance includes, but is not limited to, an attached porch, and
a building or conveyance with a roof over it includes but is not limited to a
tent.
      RESIDENCE. A dwelling in which a person resides either temporarily or
permanently or is visiting as a guest.
      VEHICLE. A conveyance of any kind, whether or not motorized, that is
designed to transport people or property.
   (E)   (1)   “Reasonable doubt” is present when the jurors, after they have
carefully considered and compared all the evidence, cannot say they are firmly
convinced of the truth of the charge. It is a doubt based on reasonable and
common sense.
      (2)   Reasonable doubt is not mere possible doubt, because everything
relating to human affairs or depending on moral evidence is open to some
possible or imaginary doubt.
      (3)   “Proof beyond a reasonable doubt” is proof of such character that
an ordinary person would be willing to rely and act upon it in the most
important of the person’s own affairs.
(R.C. § 2901.05)
§ 130.15 BATTERED WOMAN SYNDROME.
   (A)   The municipality hereby declares that it recognizes both of the
following, in relation to the “battered woman syndrome”: that the syndrome
currently is a matter of commonly accepted scientific knowledge, and that the
subject matter and details of the syndrome are not within the general
understanding or experience of a person who is a member of the general populace
and are not within the field of common knowledge.
   (B)   If a person is charged with an offense involving the use of force
against another and the person, as a defense to the offense charged, raises the
affirmative defense of self defense, the person may introduce expert testimony
of the “battered woman syndrome” and expert testimony that the person suffered
from that syndrome as evidence to establish the requisite belief of an imminent
danger of death or great bodily harm that is necessary, as an element of the
affirmative defense, to justify the person’s use of force in question. The
introduction of any expert testimony under this division shall be in accordance
with the Ohio Rules of Evidence.
(R.C. § 2901.06)
§ 130.16 DELINQUENCY ADJUDICATIONS DEEMED CONVICTIONS.
   (A)   If a person is alleged to have committed an offense and if the person
previously has been adjudicated a delinquent child or juvenile traffic offender
for a violation of a law or ordinance, except as provided in division (B)
below, the adjudication as a delinquent child or as a juvenile traffic offender
is a conviction for a violation of the law for purposes of determining the
offense with which the person should be charged and, if the person is convicted
of or pleads guilty to an offense, the sentence to be imposed upon the person
relative to the conviction or guilty plea.
   (B)   A previous adjudication of a person as a delinquent child or juvenile
traffic offender for a violation of a law or ordinance is not a conviction for
a violation of the law or ordinance for purposes of determining any of the
following:
      (1)   Whether the person is a repeat violent offender, as defined in R.C.
§ 2929.01, or whether the person should be sentenced as a repeat violent
offender under R.C. § 2929.14(B)(2) and R.C. § 2941.149; and
      (2)    Whether the person is a violent career criminal as defined in R.C.
§ 2923.132, whether the person has committed unlawful use of a weapon by a
violent career criminal in violation of R.C. § 2923.132 or should be sentenced
for that offense under that section, or whether the person should be sentenced
under R.C. § 2929.14(K) as a violent career criminal who had a firearm on or
about the person’s person or under the person’s control while committing a
violent felony offense and displayed or brandished the firearm, indicated that
the offender possessed a firearm or used the firearm to facilitate the offense.
(R.C. § 2901.08)
§ 130.17 DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED OR FORFEITED PROPERTY BY POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Safekeeping of property in custody.
      (1)   (a)   Any property that has been lost, abandoned, stolen, seized
pursuant to a search warrant or otherwise lawfully seized or forfeited and that
is in the custody of the Police Department shall be kept safely by the Police
Department, pending the time it no longer is needed as evidence or for another
lawful purpose, and shall be disposed of pursuant to this section or R.C. §§
2981.12 and 2981.13.
         (b)   This section does not apply to the custody and disposal of any
of the following:
            1.   Vehicles subject to forfeiture under R.C. Title 45, except as
provided in division (B)(1)(f) of this section;
            2.   Abandoned junk motor vehicles or other property of negligible
value;
            3.   Property held by a department of rehabilitation and correction
institution that is unclaimed, that does not have an identified owner, that the
owner agrees to dispose of or that is identified by the department as having
little value;
            4.   Animals taken, and devices used in unlawfully taking animals,
under R.C. § 1531.20;
            5.   Controlled substances sold by a peace officer in the
performance of the officer’s official duties under R.C. § 3719.141;
            6.   Property recovered by a township law enforcement agency under
R.C. §§ 505.105 to 505.109; and
            7.   Property held and disposed of under an ordinance of the
municipality or under R.C. §§ 737.29 to 737.33, except that if the municipality
has received notice of a citizens’ reward program as provided in division (B)
(5) below and disposes of property under an ordinance shall pay 25% of any
monies acquired from any sale or auction to the citizens’ reward program.
      (2)   (a)   The Police Department shall adopt and comply with a written
internal control policy that does all of the following:
            1.   Provides for keeping detailed records as to the amount of
property acquired by the Police Department and the date property was acquired;
            2.   Provides for keeping detailed records of the disposition of
the property, which shall include but not be limited to both of the following:
               a.   The manner in which it was disposed, the date of
disposition, detailed financial records concerning any property sold and the
name of any person who received the property. The record shall not identify or
enable identification of the individual officer who seized any item of
property; and
               b.   An itemized list of the specific expenditures made with
amounts that are gained from the sale of the property and that are retained by
the agency, including the specific amount expended on each expenditure, except
that the policy shall not provide for or permit the identification of any
specific expenditure that is made in an ongoing investigation.
            3.   Complies with R.C. § 2981.13 if the Police Department has a
Law Enforcement Trust Fund or similar fund created under that section.
         (b)   The records kept under the internal control policy shall be open
to public inspection during the Police Department’s regular business hours. The
policy adopted under this section is a public record open for inspection under
R.C. § 149.43.
      (3)   The Police Department, with custody of property to be disposed of
under this section or R.C. §§ 2981.12 or 2981.13, shall make a reasonable
effort to locate persons entitled to possession of the property, to notify them
of when and where it may be claimed and to return the property to them at the
earliest possible time. In the absence of evidence identifying persons entitled
to possession, it is sufficient notice to advertise in a newspaper of general
circulation in the county and to briefly describe the nature of the property in
custody and inviting persons to view and establish their right to it.
      (4)   As used in this section:
         CITIZENS’ REWARD PROGRAM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 9.92.
         LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. Includes correctional institutions.
         TOWNSHIP LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. An organized police department of a
township, a township police district, a joint police district or the office of
a township constable.
(R.C. § 2981.11)
   (B)   Disposition of unclaimed or forfeited property.
      (1)   Unclaimed or forfeited property in the custody of the Police
Department, other than property described in division (A)(1)(b) above, shall be
disposed of by order of any court of record that has territorial jurisdiction
over the municipality, as follows.
         (a)   Drugs shall be disposed of pursuant to R.C. § 3719.11 or placed
in the custody of the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States for
disposal or use for medical or scientific purposes under applicable federal
law.
         (b)   Firearms and dangerous ordnance suitable for police work may be
given to a law enforcement agency for that purpose. Firearms suitable for
sporting use or as museum pieces or collectors’ items may be sold at public
auction pursuant to division (B)(2) below. The Police Department may sell other
firearms and dangerous ordnance to a federally licensed firearms dealer in a
manner that the court considers proper. The Police Department shall destroy any
firearms or dangerous ordnance not given to a law enforcement agency or sold or
shall send them to the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation for
destruction by the Bureau.
         (c)   Obscene materials shall be destroyed.
         (d)   Beer, intoxicating liquor or alcohol seized from a person who
does not hold a permit issued under R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303 or otherwise
forfeited to the state for an offense under R.C. § 4301.45 or R.C. § 4301.53
shall be sold by the Division of Liquor Control if the Division determines that
it is fit for sale or shall be placed in the custody of the Investigations Unit
in the Ohio Department of Public Safety and be used for training relating to
law enforcement activities. The Ohio Department of Public Safety, with the
assistance of the Division of Liquor Control, shall adopt rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 to provide for the distribution to state or local law
enforcement agencies upon their request. If any tax imposed under R.C. Title 43
has not been paid in relation to the beer, intoxicating liquor or alcohol, any
monies acquired from the sale shall first be used to pay the tax. All other
money collected under this division (B)(1)(d) shall be paid into the State
Treasury. Any beer, intoxicating liquor or alcohol that the Division determines
to be unfit for sale shall be destroyed.
         (e)   Money received by an inmate of a correctional institution from
an unauthorized source or in an unauthorized manner shall be returned to the
sender, if known, or deposited in the Inmates’ Industrial and Entertainment
Fund of the institution if the sender is not known.
         (f)   1.   Any mobile instrumentality forfeited under R.C. Chapter
2981 may be given to the law enforcement agency that initially seized the
mobile instrumentality for use in performing its duties, if the agency wants
the mobile instrumentality. The agency shall take the mobile instrumentality
subject to any security interest or lien on the mobile instrumentality.
            2.   Vehicles and vehicle parts forfeited under R.C. §§ 4549.61 to
4549.63 may be given to a law enforcement agency for use in performing its
duties. Those parts may be incorporated into any other official vehicle. Parts
that do not bear vehicle identification numbers or derivatives of them may be
sold or disposed of as provided by rules of the Director of Public Safety.
Parts from which a vehicle identification number or derivative of it has been
removed, defaced, covered, altered or destroyed and that are not suitable for
police work or incorporation into an official vehicle shall be destroyed and
sold as junk or scrap.
         (g)   Computers, computer networks, computer systems and computer
software suitable for police work may be given to a law enforcement agency for
that purpose or disposed of under division (B)(2) below.
         (h)   Money seized in connection with a violation of R.C. §§ 2905.32,
2907.21 or 2907.22 shall be deposited in the Victims of Human Trafficking Fund
created by R.C. § 5101.87.
      (2)   Unclaimed or forfeited property that is not described in division
(B)(1) above or division (A)(1)(b) above, with court approval, may be used by
the law enforcement agency in possession of it. If it is not used by the
agency, it may be sold without appraisal at a public auction to the highest
bidder for cash or disposed of in another manner that the court considers
proper.
      (3)   Except as provided in divisions (B)(1) and (B)(5) of this section
and after compliance with division (B)(4) below when applicable, any monies
acquired from the sale of property disposed of pursuant to this section shall
be placed in the General Revenue Fund of the state, or the General Fund of the
municipality.
      (4)   If the property was in the possession of the Police Department in
relation to a delinquent child proceeding in a juvenile court, 10% of any
monies acquired from the sale of property disposed of under this section shall
be applied to one or more community addiction services providers, as defined in
R.C. § 5119.01. A juvenile court shall not specify a services provider, except
as provided in this division, unless the services provider is in the same
county as the court or in a contiguous county. If no services provider is
located in any of those counties, the juvenile court may specify a services
provider anywhere in the state. The remaining 90% of the proceeds or cash shall
be applied as provided in division (B)(3) above.
      (5)   (a)   If the Board of County Commissioners recognizes a citizens’
reward program under R.C. § 9.92, the Board shall notify the Police Department
of the recognition by filing a copy of its resolution conferring that
recognition with the Police Department. When the Board recognizes a citizens’
reward program and the county includes a part, but not all, of the territory of
the municipality, the Board shall so notify the Police Department of the
recognition of the citizens’ reward program only if the county contains the
highest percentage of the municipality’s population.
         (b)   Upon being so notified, the Police Department shall pay 25% of
any forfeited proceeds or cash derived from each sale of property disposed of
pursuant to this section to the citizens’ reward program for use exclusively to
pay rewards. No part of the funds may be used to pay expenses associated with
the program.
         (c)   If a citizens’ reward program that operates in more than one
county or in another state in addition to this state receives funds under this
section, the funds shall be used to pay rewards only for tips and information
to law enforcement agencies concerning offenses committed in the county from
which the funds were received.
      (6)   Any property forfeited under R.C. Chapter 2981 not be used to pay
any fine imposed upon a person who is convicted of or pleads guilty to an
underlying criminal offense or a different offense arising out of the same
facts and circumstances.
      (7)   Any monies acquired from the sale of personal effects, tools or
other property seized because the personal effects, tools or other property
were used in the commission of a violation of R.C. §§ 2905.32, 2907.21 or
2907.22 or derived from the proceeds of the commission of a violation of R.C.
§§ 2905.32, 2907.21 or 2907.22 and disposed of pursuant to this division (B)
shall be placed in the Victims of Human Trafficking Fund created by R.C. §
5101.87.
(R.C. § 2981.12)
   (C)   Disposition of contraband, proceeds or instrumentalities. Except as
otherwise provided in R.C. § 2981.13, property ordered forfeited as contraband,
proceeds or an instrumentality pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2981 shall be disposed
of, used or sold pursuant to division (B) above or R.C. § 2981.12. If the
property is to be sold under division (B) above or R.C. § 2981.12, the
prosecutor shall cause notice of the proposed sale to be given in accordance
with law.
(R.C. § 2981.13(A))
Statutory reference:
   Forfeiture of property generally, see R.C. Chapter 2981
§ 130.18 IMPOSING SENTENCE FOR MISDEMEANOR.
   (A)   (1)   Unless a mandatory jail term is required to be imposed by R.C.
§§ 1547.99(G), 4510.14(B) or 4511.19(G), or any other provision of the Ohio
Revised Code, or any municipal ordinance, a court that imposes a sentence under
this chapter upon an offender for a misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor has
discretion to determine the most effective way to achieve the purposes and
principles of sentencing set forth in §
130.99(B).
      (2)   Unless a specific sanction is required to be imposed or is
precluded from being imposed by the section setting forth an offense or the
penalty for an offense or by any provision of §§
130.99 or
133.99 of this code or R.C. §§ 2929.23 through 2929.28, a court that imposes a
sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor may impose on the offender any
sanction or combination of sanctions under §
130.99(C) through (G). The court shall not impose a sentence that imposes an
unnecessary burden on local government resources.
   (B)   (1)   In determining the appropriate sentence for a misdemeanor, the
court shall consider all of the following factors:
         (a)   The nature and circumstances of the offense or offenses;
         (b)   Whether the circumstances regarding the offender and the offense
or offenses indicate that the offender has a history of persistent criminal
activity and that the offender’s character and condition reveal a substantial
risk that the offender will commit another offense;
         (c)   Whether the circumstances regarding the offender and the offense
or offenses indicate that the offender’s history, character and condition
reveal a substantial risk that the offender will be a danger to others and that
the offender’s conduct has been characterized by a pattern of repetitive,
compulsive or aggressive behavior with heedless indifference to the
consequences;
         (d)   Whether the victim’s youth, age, disability or other factor made
the victim particularly vulnerable to the offense or made the impact of the
offense more serious;
         (e)   Whether the offender is likely to commit future crimes in
general, in addition to the circumstances described in divisions (B)(1)(b) and
(B)(1)(c) above;
         (f)   Whether the offender has an emotional, mental or physical
condition that is traceable to the offender’s service in the armed forces of
the United States and that was a contributing factor in the offender’s
commission of the offense or offenses; and
         (g)   The offender’s military service record.
      (2)   In determining the appropriate sentence for a misdemeanor, in
addition to complying with division (B)(1) above, the court may consider any
other factors that are relevant to achieving the purposes and principles of
sentencing set forth in §
130.99(B).
   (C)   Before imposing a jail term as a sentence for a misdemeanor, a court
shall consider the appropriateness of imposing a community control sanction or
a combination of community control sanctions under §
130.99(D), (E), (F) and (G). A court may impose the longest jail term
authorized under §
130.99(C) only upon offenders who commit the worst forms of the offense or upon
offenders whose conduct and response to prior sanctions for prior offenses
demonstrate that the imposition of the longest jail term is necessary to deter
the offender from committing a future crime.
   (D)   (1)   A sentencing court shall consider any relevant oral or written
statement made by the victim, the defendant, the defense attorney or the
prosecuting authority regarding sentencing for a misdemeanor. This division
does not create any rights to notice other than those rights authorized by R.C.
Chapter 2930.
      (2)   At the time of sentencing for a misdemeanor or as soon as possible
after sentencing, the court shall notify the victim of the offense of the
victim’s right to file an application for an award of reparations pursuant to
R.C. §§ 2743.51 through 2743.72.
(R.C. § 2929.22)
§ 130.19 MULTIPLE SENTENCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, R.C. § 2929.14(C) or R.C. §
2971.03(D) or (E), a prison term, jail term or sentence of imprisonment shall
be served concurrently with any other prison term, jail term or sentence of
imprisonment imposed by a court of this municipality, this state, another state
or the United States. Except as provided in division (B)(2) below, a jail term
or sentence of imprisonment for misdemeanor shall be served concurrently with a
prison term or sentence of imprisonment for felony served in a state or federal
correctional institution.
   (B)   (1)   A jail term or sentence of imprisonment for a misdemeanor shall
be served consecutively to any other prison term, jail term or sentence of
imprisonment when the trial court specifies that it is to be served
consecutively or when it is imposed for a misdemeanor violation of R.C. §§
2907.322, 2921.34 or 2923.131. When consecutive sentences are imposed for
misdemeanors under this division, the term to be served is the aggregate of the
consecutive terms imposed, except that the aggregate term to be served shall
not exceed 18 months.
      (2)   A jail term or sentence of imprisonment imposed for a misdemeanor
violation of R.C. §§ 4510.11, 4510.14, 4510.16, 4510.21 or 4511.19, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be served consecutively to
a prison term that is imposed for a felony violation of R.C. §§ 2903.06,
2903.07, 2903.08 or 4511.19 or a felony violation of R.C. § 2903.04 involving
the operation of a motor vehicle by the offender and that is served in a state
correctional institution when the trial court specifies that it is to be served
consecutively. When consecutive jail terms or sentences of imprisonment and
prison terms are imposed for one or more misdemeanors and one or more felonies
under this division, the term to be served is the aggregate of the consecutive
terms imposed, and the offender shall serve all terms imposed for a felony
before serving any term imposed for a misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2929.41)
§ 130.20 APPREHENSION, DETENTION OR ARREST OF PERSONS ON BOND.
   (A)   No person, other than a law enforcement officer, shall apprehend,
detain or arrest a principal on bond, wherever issued, unless that person meets
all of the following criteria.
      (1)   The person is any of the following:
         (a)   Qualified, licensed and appointed as a surety bail bond agent
under R.C. §§ 3905.83 through 3905.95;
         (b)   Licensed as a surety bail bond agent by the state where the bond
was written;
         (c)   Licensed as a private investigator under R.C. Chapter 4749;
         (d)   Licensed as a private investigator by the state where the bond
was written; and
         (e)   An off-duty peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 2921.51.
      (2)   The person, prior to apprehending, detaining or arresting the
principal, has entered into a written contract with the surety or with a
licensed surety bail bond agent appointed by the surety, which contract sets
forth the name of the principal who is to be apprehended, detained or arrested.
For purposes of this division (A)(2), SURETY has the same meaning as in R.C. §
3905.83.
      (3)   The person, prior to apprehending, detaining or arresting the
principal, has notified the local law enforcement agency having jurisdiction
over the area in which such activities will be performed and has provided any
form or identification or other information requested by the law enforcement
agency.
   (B)   No person shall represent the person’s self to be a bail enforcement
agent or bounty hunter, or claim any similar title, in this municipality.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal bail bond agent
practices.
      (1)   A violation of division (A) above is a misdemeanor of the first
degree or, if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to two or more violations of division (A) above, or any substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (B) above is a misdemeanor of the first
degree or, if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to two or more violations of division (B) above, or any substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.27)
§ 130.21 SELF DEFENSE; LIMITATIONS ON DUTY TO RETREAT PRIOR TO USING FORCE.
   (A)   As used in this section, RESIDENCE has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2901.05.
   (B)   For purposes of any section of this code that sets forth a criminal
offense, a person has no duty to retreat before using force in self-defense,
defense of another or defense of that person’s residence if that person is in a
place in which the person lawfully has a right to be.
   (C)   A trier of fact shall not consider the possibility of retreat as a
factor in determining whether or not a person who used force in self-defense,
defense of another or defense of that person’s residence reasonably believed
that the force was necessary to prevent injury, loss or risk to life or safety.
(R.C. § 2901.09)
§ 130.99 PENALTIES FOR MISDEMEANORS.
   (A)   Generally. Except where otherwise specifically classified within the
body of the section of a chapter of this title, a violation of such section
shall be deemed a misdemeanor punishable upon conviction by a fine of not more
than $500, imprisonment of not more than six months, or both.
(R.C. § 715.67)
   (B)   Considerations in misdemeanor sentencing.
      (1)   A court that sentences an offender for a misdemeanor or minor
misdemeanor violation of any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, or of any
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to a misdemeanor or minor
misdemeanor violation of a provision of the Ohio Revised Code, shall be guided
by the overriding purposes of misdemeanor sentencing. The overriding purposes
of misdemeanor sentencing are to protect the public from future crime by the
offender and others and to punish the offender. To achieve those purposes, the
sentencing court shall consider the impact of the offense upon the victim and
the need for changing the offender’s behavior, rehabilitating the defender, and
making restitution to the victim of the offense, the public, or the victim and
the public.
      (2)   A sentence imposed for a misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor violation
of an Ohio Revised Code provision or for a violation of a municipal ordinance
that is subject to division (B)(1) above shall be reasonably calculated to
achieve the two overriding purposes of misdemeanor sentencing set forth in
division (B)(1) above commensurate with and not demeaning to the seriousness of
the offender’s conduct and its impact upon the victim, and consistent with
sentences imposed for similar offenses committed by similar offenders.
      (3)   A court that imposes a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor
or minor misdemeanor violation of an Ohio Revised Code provision or for a
violation of a municipal ordinance that is subject to division (B)(1) above
shall not base the sentence upon the race, ethnic background, gender or
religion of the offender.
      (4)   Divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) above shall not apply to any offense
that is disposed of by a traffic violations bureau of any court pursuant to
Traffic Rule 13 and shall not apply to any violation of any provision of the
Ohio Revised Code that is a minor misdemeanor and that is disposed of without a
court appearance. Divisions (B)(1) through (B)(3) above do not affect any
penalties established by the municipality for a violation of its ordinances
that are not substantially equivalent to a misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor
violation of a provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
(R.C. § 2929.21)
   (C)   Misdemeanor jail terms.
      (1)   Except as provided in §
130.18 or
133.99 of this code or R.C. § 2929.22 or 2929.23 or division (C)(5) or (C)(6)
of this section and unless another term is required or authorized pursuant to
law, if the sentencing court imposing a sentence upon an offender for a
misdemeanor elects or is required to impose a jail term on the offender
pursuant to this chapter, the court shall impose a definite jail term that
shall be one of the following:
         (a)   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than 180 days;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than 90 days;
         (c)   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than 60 days;
and
         (d)   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than 30 days.
      (2)   (a)   A court that sentences an offender to a jail term under this
division (C) may permit the offender to serve the sentence in intermittent
confinement or may authorize a limited release of the offender as provided in
division (E)(2) below. The court retains jurisdiction over every offender
sentenced to jail to modify the jail sentence imposed at any time, but the
court shall not reduce any mandatory jail term.
         (b)   1.   If a prosecutor, as defined in R.C. § 2935.01, has filed a
notice with the court that the prosecutor wants to be notified about a
particular case and if the court is considering modifying the jail sentence of
the offender in that case, the court shall notify the prosecutor that the court
is considering modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case. The
prosecutor may request a hearing regarding the court’s consideration of
modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case, and, if the
prosecutor requests a hearing, the court shall notify the eligible offender of
the hearing.
            2.   If the prosecutor requests a hearing regarding the court’s
consideration of modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case, the
court shall hold the hearing before considering whether or not to release the
offender from the offender’s jail sentence.
      (3)   If a court sentences an offender to a jail term under this division
(C) and the court assigns the offender to a county jail that has established a
county jail industry program pursuant to R.C. § 5147.30, the court shall
specify, as part of the sentence, whether the offender may be considered for
participation in the program. During the offender’s term in the county jail,
the court retains jurisdiction to modify its specification regarding the
offender’s participation in the county jail industry program.
      (4)   If a person sentenced to a jail term pursuant to this division (C),
the court may impose as part of the sentence pursuant to R.C. § 2929.28 a
reimbursement sanction, and, if the local detention facility in which the term
is to be served is covered by a policy adopted pursuant to R.C. § 307.93,
341.14, 341.19, 341.21, 341.23, 753.02, 753.04, 753.16, 2301.56 or 2947.19 and
R.C. § 2929.37, both of the following apply:
         (a)   The court shall specify both of the following as part of the
sentence:
            1.   If the person is presented with an itemized bill pursuant to
R.C. § 2929.37 for payment of the costs of confinement, the person is required
to pay the bill in accordance with that section.
            2.   If the person does not dispute the bill described in division
(C)(4)(a)1. above and does not pay the bill by the times specified in R.C. §
2929.37, the clerk of the court may issue a certificate of judgment against the
person as described in that section.
         (b)   The sentence automatically includes any certificate of judgment
issued as described in division (C)(4)(a)2. above.
      (5)   If an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation
of R.C. § 4511.19(B), or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, also
is convicted of or also pleads guilty to a specification of the type described
in R.C. § 2941.1414 and if the court imposes a jail term on the offender for
the underlying offense, the court shall impose upon the offender an additional
definite jail term of not more than six months. The additional jail term shall
not be reduced pursuant to any provision of the Ohio Revised Code. The offender
shall serve the additional jail term consecutively to and prior to the jail
term imposed for the underlying offense and consecutively to any other
mandatory term imposed in relation to the offense.
      (6)   (a)   If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
misdemeanor violation of R.C. § 2907.23, 2907.24, 2907.241 or 2907.25, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and to a specification of the
type described in R.C. § 2941.1421 and if the court imposes a jail term on the
offender for the misdemeanor violation, the court may impose upon the offender
an additional definite jail term as follows:
            1.   Subject to division (C)(6)(a)2. below, an additional definite
jail term of not more than 60 days;
            2.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one or more misdemeanor or felony violations of R.C. § 2907.22,
2907.23, 2907.24, 2907.241 or 2907.25, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and also was convicted of or pleaded guilty to a
specification of the type described in R.C. § 2941.1421 regarding one or more
of those violations, an additional definite jail term of not more than 120
days.
         (b)   In lieu of imposing an additional definite jail term under
division (C)(6)(a) above, the court may directly impose on the offender a
sanction that requires the offender to wear a real- time processing, continual
tracking electronic monitoring device during the period of time specified by
the court. The period of time specified by the court shall equal the duration
of an additional jail term that the court could have imposed upon the offender
under division (C)(6)(a) above. A sanction imposed under this division shall
commence on the date specified by the court, provided that the sanction shall
not commence until after the offender has served the jail term imposed for the
misdemeanor violation of R.C. § 2907.23, 2907.24, 2907.241 or 2907.25, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and any residential sanction
imposed for the violation under division (E) of this section or R.C. § 2929.26.
A sanction imposed under this division shall be considered to be a community
control sanction for purposes of division (D) or this section or R.C. §
2929.25, and all provisions of this code and the Ohio Revised Code that pertain
to community control sanctions shall apply to a sanction imposed under this
division, except to the extent that they would by their nature be clearly
inapplicable. The offender shall pay all costs associated with a sanction
imposed under this division, including the cost of the use of the monitoring
device.
      (7)   If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor
violation of R.C. § 2903.13 and also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
specification of the type described in R.C. § 2941.1423 that charges that the
victim of the violation was a woman whom the offender knew was pregnant at the
time of the violation, the court shall impose on the offender a mandatory jail
term that is a definite term of at least 30 days.
      (8)   If a court sentences an offender to a jail term under this division
(C), the sentencing court retains jurisdiction over the offender and the jail
term. Upon motion of either party or upon the court’s own motion, the court, in
the court’s sole discretion and as the circumstances warrant, may substitute
one or more community control sanctions under division (E) or (F) below for any
jail days that are not mandatory jail days.
(R.C. § 2929.24)
   (D)   Misdemeanor community control sanctions.
      (1)   (a)   Except as provided in §§
130.18 and
133.99 of this code or R.C. §§ 2929.22 and 2929.23 or when a jail term is
required by law, in sentencing an offender for a misdemeanor, other than a
minor misdemeanor, the sentencing court may do either of the following:
            1.   Directly impose a sentence that consists of one or more
community control sanctions authorized by divisions (E), (F) or (G) below. The
court may impose any other conditions of release under a community control
sanction that the court considers appropriate. If the court imposes a jail term
upon the offender, the court may impose any community control sanction or
combination of community control sanctions in addition to the jail term.
            2.   Impose a jail term under division (C) above from the range of
jail terms authorized under that division for the offense, suspend all or a
portion of the jail term imposed, and place the offender under a community
control sanction or combination of community control sanctions authorized under
divisions (E), (F) or (G) below.
         (b)   The duration of all community control sanctions imposed upon an
offender and in effect for an offender at any time shall not exceed five years.
         (c)   At sentencing, if a court directly imposes a community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions pursuant to division (D)
(1)(a)1. above, the court shall state the duration of the community control
sanctions imposed and shall notify the offender that if any of the conditions
of the community control sanctions are violated the court may do any of the
following:
            1.   Impose a longer time under the same community control sanction
if the total time under all of the offender’s community control sanctions does
not exceed the five-year limit specified in division (D)(1)(b) above;
            2.   Impose a more restrictive community control sanction under
division (E), (F) or (G) below, but the court is not required to impose any
particular sanction or sanctions; and
            3.   Impose a definite jail term from the range of jail terms
authorized for the offense under division (C) above.
      (2)   If a court sentences an offender to any community control sanction
or combination of community control sanctions pursuant to division (D)(1)(a)1.
above, the sentencing court retains jurisdiction over the offender and the
period of community control for the duration of the period of community
control. Upon the motion of either party or on the court’s own motion, the
court, in the court’s sole discretion and as the circumstances warrant, may
modify the community control sanctions or conditions of release previously
imposed, substitute a community control sanction or condition of release for
another community control sanction or condition of release previously imposed,
or impose an additional community control sanction or condition of release.
      (3)   (a)   If a court sentences an offender to any community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions authorized under
division (E), (F) or (G) below, the court shall place the offender under the
general control and supervision of the court or of a department of probation in
the jurisdiction that serves the court for purposes of reporting to the court a
violation of any of the conditions of the sanctions imposed. If the offender
resides in another jurisdiction and a department of probation has been
established to serve the municipal court or county court in that jurisdiction,
the sentencing court may request the municipal court or the county court to
receive the offender into the general control and supervision of that
department of probation for purposes of reporting to the sentencing court a
violation of any of the conditions of the sanctions imposed. The sentencing
court retains jurisdiction over any offender whom it sentences for the duration
of the sanction or sanctions imposed.
         (b)   The sentencing court shall require as a condition of any
community control sanction that the offender abide by the law and not leave the
state without the permission of the court or the offender’s probation officer.
In the interests of doing justice, rehabilitating the offender, and ensuring
the offender’s good behavior, the court may impose additional requirements on
the offender. The offender’s compliance with the additional requirements also
shall be a condition of the community control sanction imposed upon the
offender.
      (4)   (a)   If the court imposing sentence upon an offender sentences the
offender to any community control sanction or combination of community control
sanctions authorized under division (E), (F) or (G) below, and the offender
violates any of the conditions of the sanctions, the public or private person
or entity that supervises or administers the program or activity that comprises
the sanction shall report the violation directly to the sentencing court or to
the department of probation or probation officer with general control and
supervision over the offender. If the public or private person or entity
reports the violation to the department of probation or probation officer, the
department or officer shall report the violation to the sentencing court.
         (b)   If an offender violates any condition of a community control
sanction, the sentencing court may impose upon the violator one or more of the
following penalties:
            1.   A longer time under the same community control sanction if the
total time under all of the community control sanctions imposed on the violator
does not exceed the five-year limit specified in division (D)(1)(b) above;
            2.   A more restrictive community control sanction; and
            3.   A combination of community control sanctions, including a jail
term.
         (c)   If an offender was acting pursuant to R.C. § 2925.11(B)(2)(b),
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and in so doing violated
the conditions of a community control sanction based on a minor drug possession
offense, as defined in R.C. § 2925.11, the sentencing court may consider the
offender’s conduct in seeking or obtaining medical assistance for another in
good faith or for self or may consider the offender being the subject of
another person seeking or obtaining medical assistance in accordance with that
division as a mitigating factor before imposing any of the penalties described
in division (D)(4)(b) above.
         (d)   If the court imposes a jail term upon a violator pursuant to
division (D)(4)(b) above, the total time spent in jail for the misdemeanor
offense and the violation of a condition of the community control sanction
shall not exceed the maximum jail term available for the offense for which the
sanction that was violated was imposed. The court may reduce the longer period
of time that the violator is required to spend under the longer sanction or the
more restrictive sanction imposed under division (D)(4)(b) above by all or part
of the time the violator successfully spent under the sanction that was
initially imposed.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if an offender, for
a significant period of time, fulfills the conditions of a community control
sanction imposed pursuant to division (E), (F) or (G) below in an exemplary
manner, the court may reduce the period of time under the community control
sanction or impose a less restrictive community control sanction. Fulfilling
the conditions of a community control sanction does not relieve the offender of
a duty to make restitution under division (G) below.
(R.C. § 2929.25)
   (E)   Community residential sanction.
      (1)   Except when a mandatory jail term is required by law, the court
imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a minor misdemeanor, may
impose upon the offender any community residential sanction or combination of
community residential sanctions under this division (E). Community residential
sanctions include but are not limited to the following:
         (a)   A term of up to 180 days in a halfway house or a term in a
halfway house not to exceed the longest jail term available for the offense,
whichever is shorter, if the political subdivision that would have
responsibility for paying the costs of confining the offender in a jail has
entered into a contract with the halfway house for use of the facility for
misdemeanor offenders; and
         (b)   If the offender is an eligible offender, as defined in R.C. §
307.932, a term in a community alternative sentencing center or district
community alternative sentencing center established and operated in accordance
with that section, in the circumstances specified in that section, with one of
the conditions of the sanction being that the offender successfully complete
the portion of the sentence to be served in the center.
      (2)   A sentence to a community residential sanction under division (E)
(1)(b) above shall be in accordance with R.C. § 307.932. In all other cases,
the court that sentences an offender to a community residential sanction under
this division (E) may do either or both of the following:
         (a)   Permit the offender to serve the offender’s sentence in
intermittent confinement, overnight, on weekends or at any other time or times
that will allow the offender to continue at the offender’s occupation or care
for the offender’s family;
         (b)   Authorize the offender to be released so that the offender may
seek or maintain employment, receive education or training, receive treatment,
perform community service or otherwise fulfill an obligation imposed by law or
by the court. A release pursuant to this division shall be only for the
duration of time that is needed to fulfill the purpose of the release and for
travel that reasonably is necessary to fulfill the purposes of release.
      (3)   The court may order that a reasonable portion of the income earned
by the offender upon a release pursuant to division (E)(2) above be applied to
any financial sanction imposed under division (G) below.
      (4)   No court shall sentence any person to a prison term for a
misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor or to a jail term for a minor misdemeanor.
      (5)   If a court sentences a person who has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a misdemeanor to a community residential sanction as described in
division (E)(1) above, at the time of reception and at other times the person
in charge of the operation of the halfway house, community alternative
sentencing center, district community alternative sentencing center, or other
place at which the offender will serve the residential sanction determines to
be appropriate, the person in charge of the operation of the halfway house,
community alternative sentencing center, district community alternative
sentencing center or other place may cause the convicted offender to be
examined and tested for tuberculosis, HIV infection, hepatitis, including, but
not limited to, hepatitis A, B and C, and other contagious diseases. The person
in charge of the operation of the halfway house, community alternative
sentencing center, district community alternative sentencing center or other
place at which the offender will serve the residential sanction may cause a
convicted offender in the halfway house, community alternative sentencing
center, district community alternative sentencing center or other place who
refuses to be tested or treated for tuberculosis, HIV infection, hepatitis,
including, but not limited to, hepatitis A, B and C, or another contagious
disease to be tested and treated involuntarily.
      (6)   The municipality may enter into a contract with a halfway house for
use of the halfway house to house misdemeanor offenders under a sanction
imposed under division (E)(1)(a) above.
(R.C. § 2929.26)
   (F)   Nonresidential sanction where jail term is not mandatory.
      (1)   Except when a mandatory jail term is required by law, the court
imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a minor misdemeanor, may
impose upon the offender any nonresidential sanction or combination of
nonresidential sanctions authorized under this division. Nonresidential
sanctions include but are not limited to the following:
         (a)   A term of day reporting;
         (b)   A term of house arrest with electronic monitoring or continuous
alcohol monitoring or both electronic monitoring and continuous alcohol
monitoring, a term of electronic monitoring or continuous alcohol monitoring
without house arrest, or a term of house arrest without electronic monitoring
or continuous alcohol monitoring;
         (c)   A term of community service of up to 500 hours for misdemeanor
of the first degree or 200 hours for a misdemeanor of the second, third or
fourth degree;
         (d)   A term in a drug treatment program with a level of security for
the offender as determined necessary by the court;
         (e)   A term of intensive probation supervision;
         (f)   A term of basic probation supervision;
         (g)   A term of monitored time;
         (h)   A term of drug and alcohol use monitoring, including random drug
testing;
         (i)   A curfew term;
         (j)   A requirement that the offender obtain employment;
         (k)   A requirement that the offender obtain education or training;
         (l)   Provided the court obtains the prior approval of the victim, a
requirement that the offender participate in victim-offender mediation;
         (m)   If authorized by law, suspension of the offender’s privilege to
operate a motor vehicle, immobilization or forfeiture of the offender’s motor
vehicle, a requirement that the offender obtain a valid motor vehicle
operator’s license, or any other related sanction; and
         (n)   A requirement that the offender obtain counseling if the offense
is a violation of R.C. § 2919.25 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance or a violation of R.C. § 2903.13 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance involving a person who was a family or household member at
the time of the violation, if the offender committed the offense in the
vicinity of one or more children who are not victims of the offense, and if the
offender or the victim of the offense is a parent, guardian, custodian or
person in loco parentis of one or more of those children. This division does
not limit the court in requiring that the offender obtain counseling for any
offense or in any circumstance not specified in this division.
      (2)   (a)   If the court imposes a term of community service pursuant to
division (F)(1)(c) above, the offender may request that the court modify the
sentence to authorize the offender to make a reasonable contribution, as
determined by the court, to the general fund of the county, municipality, or
other local entity that provides funding to the court.
         (b)   The court may grant the request if the offender demonstrates a
change in circumstances from the date the court imposes the sentence or that
the modification would otherwise be in the interests of justice. If the court
grants the request, the offender shall make a reasonable contribution to the
court, and the clerk of the court shall deposit that contribution into the
general fund of the county, municipality or other local entity that provides
funding to the court.
         (c)   If more than one entity provides funding to the court, the clerk
shall deposit a percentage of the reasonable contribution equal to the
percentage of funding the entity provides to the court in that entity’s general
fund.
      (3)   In addition to the sanctions authorized under division (F)(1)
above, the court imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a minor
misdemeanor, upon an offender who is not required to serve a mandatory jail
term may impose any other sanction that is intended to discourage the offender
or other persons from committing a similar offense if the sanction is
reasonably related to the overriding purposes and principles of misdemeanor
sentencing.
      (4)   The court imposing a sentence for a minor misdemeanor may impose a
term of community service in lieu of all or part of a fine. The term of
community service imposed for a minor misdemeanor shall not exceed 30 hours.
After imposing a term of community service, the court may modify the sentence
to authorize a reasonable contribution, as determined by the court, to the
appropriate general fund as provided in division (F)(2) of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.27)
   (G)   Financial sanctions.
      (1)   In addition to imposing court costs pursuant to R.C. § 2947.23, the
court imposing a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor, including a minor
misdemeanor, may sentence the offender to any financial sanction or combination
of financial sanctions authorized under this division (G). If the court, in its
discretion, imposes one or more financial sanctions, the financial sanctions
that may be imposed pursuant to this section include but are not limited to the
following:
         (a)   Restitution.
            1.   Unless the misdemeanor offense is a minor misdemeanor or could
be disposed of by the Traffic Violations Bureau serving the court under Traffic
Rule 13, restitution by the offender to the victim of the offender’s crime or
any survivor of the victim, in an amount based upon the victim’s economic loss.
The court may not impose restitution as a sanction pursuant to this division if
the offense is a minor misdemeanor or could be disposed of by the Traffic
Violations Bureau serving the court under Traffic Rule 13. If the court
requires restitution, the court shall order that the restitution be made to the
victim in open court or to the adult probation department that serves the
jurisdiction or the clerk of the court on behalf of the victim.
            2.   If the court imposes restitution, the court shall determine
the amount of restitution to be paid by the offender. If the court imposes
restitution, the court may base the amount of restitution it orders on an
amount recommended by the victim, the offender, a presentence investigation
report, estimates or receipts indicating the cost of repairing or replacing
property, and other information, provided that the amount the court orders as
restitution shall not exceed the amount of economic loss suffered by the victim
as a direct and proximate result of the commission of the offense. If the court
imposes restitution for the cost of accounting or auditing done to determine
the extent of economic loss, the court may order restitution for any amount of
the victim’s costs of accounting or auditing provided that the amount of
restitution is reasonable and does not exceed the value of property or services
stolen or damaged as a result of the offense. If the court decides to impose
restitution, the court shall hold an evidentiary hearing on restitution if the
offender, victim, or survivor disputes the amount of restitution. If the court
holds an evidentiary hearing, at the hearing the victim or survivor has the
burden to prove by a preponderance of the evidence the amount of restitution
sought from the offender.
            3.   All restitution payments shall be credited against any
recovery of economic loss in a civil action brought by the victim or any
survivor of the victim against the offender. No person may introduce evidence
of an award of restitution under this section in a civil action for purposes of
imposing liability against an insurer under R.C. § 3937.18.
            4.   If the court imposes restitution, the court may order that the
offender pay a surcharge, of not more than 5% of the amount of the restitution
otherwise ordered, to the entity responsible for collecting and processing
restitution payments.
            5.   The victim or survivor of the victim may request that the
prosecutor in the case file a motion, or the offender may file a motion, for
modification of the payment terms of any restitution ordered. If the court
grants the motion, it may modify the payment terms as it determines
appropriate.
         (b)   Fines. A fine of the type described in divisions (G)(1)(b)1. and
(G)(1)(b)2. below payable to the appropriate entity as required by law:
            1.   A fine in the following amount:
               a.   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than
$1,000;
               b.   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than $750;
               c.   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than $500;
               d.   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than $250;
               e.   For a minor misdemeanor, not more than $150.
            2.   A state fine or cost as defined in R.C. § 2949.111.
         (c)   Reimbursement.
            1.   Reimbursement by the offender of any or all of the costs of
sanctions incurred by the government, including but not limited to the
following:
               a.   All or part of the costs of implementing any community
control sanction, including a supervision fee under R.C. § 2951.021;
               b.   All or part of the costs of confinement in a jail or other
residential facility, including but not limited to a per diem fee for room and
board, the costs of medical and dental treatment, and the costs of repairing
property damaged by the offender while confined;
               c.   All or part of the cost of purchasing and using an
immobilizing or disabling device, including a certified ignition interlock
device, or a remote alcohol monitoring device that a court orders an offender
to use under R.C. § 4510.13.
            2.   The amount of reimbursement under division (G)(1)(c)1. above
shall not exceed the total amount of reimbursement the offender is able to pay
and shall not exceed the actual cost of the sanctions. The court may collect
any amount of reimbursement the offender is required to pay under that
division. If the court does not order reimbursement under that division,
confinement costs may be assessed pursuant to a repayment policy adopted under
R.C. § 2929.37. In addition, the offender may be required to pay the fees
specified in R.C. § 2929.38 in accordance with that section.
      (2)   (a)   If the court determines a hearing is necessary, the court may
hold a hearing to determine whether the offender is able to pay the financial
sanction imposed pursuant to this division (G) or court costs or is likely in
the future to be able to pay the sanction or costs.
         (b)   If the court determines that the offender is indigent and unable
to pay the financial sanction or court costs, the court shall consider imposing
and may impose a term of community service under division (F)(1) above in lieu
of imposing a financial sanction or court costs. If the court does not
determine that the offender is indigent, the court may impose a term of
community service under division (F)(1) of this section in lieu of or in
addition to imposing a financial sanction under this division (G) and in
addition to imposing court costs. The court may order community service for a
minor misdemeanor pursuant to division (F)(4) of this section in lieu of or in
addition to imposing a financial sanction under this section and in addition to
imposing court costs. If a person fails to pay a financial sanction or court
costs, the court may order community service in lieu of the financial sanction
or court costs.
      (3)   (a)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed upon the
offender pursuant to division (G)(1)(c) above to pay the costs incurred by a
county pursuant to any sanction imposed under division (E), (F), or (G) above
or in operating a facility used to confine offenders pursuant to a sanction
imposed under division (E) above to the county treasurer. The county treasurer
shall deposit the reimbursements in the county’s General Fund. The county shall
use the amounts deposited in the fund to pay the costs incurred by the county
pursuant to any sanction imposed under division (E), (F) or (G) above or in
operating a facility used to confine offenders pursuant to a sanction imposed
under division (E) above.
         (b)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed upon the offender
pursuant to division (G)(1)(c) above to pay the costs incurred by a municipal
corporation pursuant to any sanction imposed under division (E), (F) or (G)
above or in operating a facility used to confine offenders pursuant to a
sanction imposed under division (E) above to the treasurer of the municipal
corporation. The treasurer shall deposit the reimbursements in the municipal
corporation’s General Fund. The municipal corporation shall use the amounts
deposited in the fund to pay the costs incurred by the municipal corporation
pursuant to any sanction imposed under division (E), (F) or (G) above or in
operating a facility used to confine offenders pursuant to a sanction imposed
under division (E) above.
         (c)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed pursuant to
division (G)(1)(c) above for the costs incurred by a private provider pursuant
to a sanction imposed under division (E), (F) or (G) above to the provider.
      (4)   In addition to any other fine that is or may be imposed under this
division (G), the court imposing sentence upon an offender for misdemeanor
domestic violence or menacing by stalking may impose a fine of not less than
$70 nor more than $500, which shall be transmitted to the Treasurer of Ohio to
be credited to the address confidentiality program fund created by R.C. §
111.48.
      (5)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (G)(5), a
financial sanction imposed under division (G)(1) above is a judgment in favor
of the state or the political subdivision that operates the court that imposed
the financial sanction, and the offender subject to the financial sanction is
the judgment debtor. A financial sanction of reimbursement imposed pursuant to
division (G)(1)(c)1.a. above upon an offender is a judgment in favor of the
entity administering the community control sanction, and the offender subject
to the financial sanction is the judgment debtor. A financial sanction of
reimbursement imposed pursuant to division (G)(1)(c)1.b. above upon an offender
confined in a jail or other residential facility is a judgment in favor of the
entity operating the jail or other residential facility, and the offender
subject to the financial sanction is the judgment debtor. A financial sanction
of restitution imposed pursuant to division (G)(1)(a) above is an order in
favor of the victim of the offender’s criminal act that can be collected
through a certificate of judgment as described in division (G)(5)(b)1. above,
through execution as described in division (G)(5)(b)2. above or through an
order as described in division (G)(5)(b)3. above and the offender shall be
considered for purposes of the collection as a judgment debtor.
         (b)   Once a financial sanction is imposed as a judgment or order
under this division, the victim, private provider, state or political
subdivision may do any of the following:
            1.   Obtain from the clerk of the court in which the judgment was
entered a certificate of judgment that shall be in the same manner and form as
a certificate of judgment issued in a civil action;
            2.   Obtain execution of the judgment or order through any
available procedure, including any of the procedures identified in R.C. §
2929.18(D)(1) and (D)(2) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
            3.   Obtain an order for the assignment of wages of the judgment
debtor under R.C. § 1321.33 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (6)   The civil remedies authorized under division (G)(5) above for the
collection of the financial sanction supplement, but do not preclude,
enforcement of the criminal sentence.
      (7)   Each court imposing a financial sanction upon an offender under
this division (G) may designate the clerk of the court or another person to
collect the financial sanction. The clerk, or another person authorized by law
or the court to collect the financial sanction may do the following.
         (a)   Enter into contracts with one or more public agencies or private
vendors for the collection of amounts due under the sanction. Before entering
into a contract for the collection of amounts due from an offender pursuant to
any financial sanction imposed pursuant to this division (G), a court shall
comply with R.C. §§ 307.86 through 307.92.
         (b)   Permit payment of all or any portion of the sanction in
installments, by financial transaction device if the court is a county court or
a municipal court operated by a county, or by any other reasonable method, in
any time, and on any terms that the court considers just, except that the
maximum time permitted for payment shall not exceed five years. If the court is
a county court or a municipal court operated by a county, the acceptance of
payments by any financial transaction device shall be governed by the policy
adopted by the board of county commissioners of the county pursuant to R.C. §
301.28. If the court is a municipal court not operated by a county, the clerk
may pay any fee associated with processing an electronic transfer out of public
money or may charge the fee to the offender.
         (c)   To defray administrative costs, charge a reasonable fee to an
offender who elects a payment plan rather than a lump sum payment of any
financial sanction.
      (8)   No financial sanction imposed under this division (G) shall
preclude a victim from bringing a civil action against the offender.
(R.C. § 2929.28)
   (H)   Organizational penalties.
      (1)   Regardless of the other penalties provided in this section, an
organization convicted of an offense pursuant to §
130.09 shall be fined by the court as follows:
         (a)   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than $5,000;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than $4,000;
         (c)   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than $3,000;
         (d)   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than $2,000;
         (e)   For a minor misdemeanor, not more than $1,000;
         (f)   For a misdemeanor not specifically classified, not more than
$2,000; and
         (g)   For a minor misdemeanor not specifically classified, not more
than $1,000.
      (2)   When an organization is convicted of an offense not specifically
classified, and the section defining the offense or penalty plainly indicates a
purpose to impose the penalty provided for violation upon organizations, then
such penalty shall be imposed in lieu of the penalty provided in this section.
      (3)   When an organization is convicted of an offense not specifically
classified, and the penalty provided includes a higher fine than that provided
in this section, then the penalty imposed shall be pursuant to the penalty
provided for violation of the section defining the offense.
      (4)   This section does not prevent the imposition of available civil
sanctions against an organization convicted of an offense pursuant to §
130.09, either in addition to or in lieu of a fine imposed pursuant to this
section.
(R.C. § 2929.31) (Prior Code, § 9.01.99)
Cross-reference:
   Sentencing for sexually oriented offenses; sexual predators; registration,
see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Citation issuance and limitations on arrest for minor misdemeanors, see R.C.
§ 2935.26
   Crime Victim’s Reparations Fund, see R.C. § 2929.32
   Habitual sex offender and sexual predator registration, see R.C. Chapter
2950
   Reimbursement for costs of confinement, see R.C. §§ 2929.36 et seq.
   Reports to health care licensing boards of criminal offenses, see R.C. §
2929.42
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
131.01   Definitions
   
131.02   Criminal damaging or endangering
   
131.03   Criminal mischief
   
131.04   Valuation of stolen property
   
131.05   Criminal trespass; aggravated trespass
   
131.06   Tampering with a coin machine
   
131.07   Petty theft
   
131.08   Unauthorized use of a vehicle
   
131.09   Unauthorized use of property
   
131.10   Passing bad checks
   
131.11   Misuse of credit cards
   
131.12   Making or using slugs
   
131.13   Defrauding a livery or hostelry
   
131.14   Tampering with records
   
131.15   Defrauding creditors
   
131.16   Receiving stolen property
   
131.17   Impersonating an officer
   
131.18   Filing a false report
   
131.19   Exclusions
   
131.20   Arson; determining property value or amount of physical harm
   
131.21   Vehicular vandalism
   
131.22   Damaging or endangering aircraft or airport operations
   
131.23   Securing writings by deception
   
131.24   Injuring vines, bushes, trees or crops
   
131.25   Detention and arrest of shoplifters and those committing motion
picture piracy; protection of institutional property
   
131.26   Insurance fraud; workers’ compensation fraud; medicaid fraud
   
131.27   Injury to property by hunters
   
131.28   Evidence of intent to commit theft of rented property or rental
services; evidence of lack of capacity to consent
   
131.29   Forgery of identification cards
   
131.30   Criminal simulation
   
131.31   Trademark counterfeiting
   
131.32   Diminishing or interfering with forfeitable property
   
131.33   Recording credit card, telephone or Social Security numbers
   
131.34   Prosecutions for theft of utilities
   
131.35   Motion picture piracy
   
131.36   Railroad vandalism; criminal trespass; interference with operation of
train; grade crossing device vandalism
   
131.37   Desecration
Cross-reference:
   Property recovered by police, deposit of stolen property, see §§
34.045 through
34.050
Statutory reference:
   Cable television service devices, unauthorized sale or possession, felony,
see R.C. § 2913.041
   Deceptive acts or practices in connection with consumer transactions, see
O.A.C. Chapter 109:4-3
   Disrupting public services, felony, see R.C. § 2909.04
   E-mail advertisements, civil offenses and felony forgery offense, see R.C. §
2307.64
   E-mail spam, civil offenses and felony offenses, see R.C. § 2913.421
   Food stamps, illegal use, see R.C. § 2913.46
   Telecommunications: fraud and unlawful use of a device, felony offenses, see
R.C. §§ 2913.05 and 2913.06
   Terrorism involving agricultural products or equipment, see R.C. § 901.511
§ 131.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTIVE DUTY SERVICE MEMBER. Any member of the armed forces of the United
States performing active duty under U.S.C. Title 10.
   ANHYDROUS AMMONIA. A compound formed by the combination of two gaseous
elements, nitrogen and hydrogen, in the manner described below. ANHYDROUS
AMMONIA is one part nitrogen to three parts hydrogen (NH3). Anhydrous ammonia
by weight is 14 parts nitrogen to three parts hydrogen, which is approximately
82% nitrogen to 18% hydrogen.
   ASSISTANCE DOG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 955.011.
   CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE. Any services provided by or through the facilities
of any cable television system or other similar closed circuit coaxial cable
communications system or any microwave or similar transmission service used in
connection with any cable television system or other similar closed circuit
coaxial cable communications system.
   COIN MACHINE. Any mechanical or electronic device designed to do both of the
following:
      (1)   Receive a coin or bill, or token made for that purpose; and
      (2)   In return for the insertion or deposit of a coin, bill or token,
automatically dispense property, provide a service or grant a license.
   COMPUTER. An electronic device that performs logical, arithmetic and memory
functions by the manipulation of electronic or magnetic impulses. The term
includes, but is not limited to, all input, output, processing, storage,
computer program or communication facilities that are connected, or related, in
a computer system or network to an electronic device of that nature.
   COMPUTER CONTAMINANT. A computer program that is designed to modify, damage,
destroy, disable, deny or degrade access to, allow unauthorized access to,
functionally impair, record or transmit information within a computer, computer
system or computer network without the express or implied consent of the owner
or other person authorized to give consent and that is of a type or kind
described in divisions (1) through (4) of this definition or of a type or kind
similar to a type or kind described in divisions (1) through (4) of this
definition:
      (1)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “viruses” and
“worms” that are self-replicating or self-propagating and that are designed to
contaminate other computer programs, compromise computer security, consume
computer resources, modify, destroy, record or transmit data, or disrupt the
normal operation of the computer, computer system or computer network;
      (2)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “Trojans” or “Trojan
horses” that are not self-replicating or self-propagating and that are designed
to compromise computer security, consume computer resources, modify, destroy,
record or transmit data, or disrupt the normal operation of the computer,
computer system or computer network;
      (3)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “zombies” that are
designed to use a computer without the knowledge and consent of the owner, or
other person authorized to give consent, and that are designed to send large
quantities of data to a targeted computer network for the purpose of degrading
the targeted computer’s or network’s performance, or denying access through the
network to the targeted computer or network, resulting in what is commonly
known as “denial of service” or “distributed denial of service” attacks; and
      (4)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “trap doors”, “back
doors” or “root kits” that are designed to bypass standard authentication
software and that are designed to allow access or use of a computer without the
knowledge or consent of the owner, or other person authorized to give consent.
   COMPUTER HACKING.
      (1)   The term means any of the following:
         (a)   Gaining access or attempting to gain access to all or part of a
computer, computer system or a computer network without express or implied
authorization with the intent to defraud or with intent to commit a crime;
         (b)   Misusing computer or network services, including, but not
limited to, mail transfer programs, file transfer programs, proxy servers and
web servers by performing functions not authorized by the owner of the
computer, computer system or computer network or other person authorized to
give consent. As used in this division, “misuse of computer and network
services” includes, but is not limited to, the unauthorized use of any of the
following:
            1.   Mail transfer programs to send mail to persons other than the
authorized users of that computer or computer network;
            2.   File transfer program services or proxy servers to access
other computers, computer systems or computer networks;
            3.   Web servers to redirect users to other web pages or web
servers.
         (c)   1.   Subject to division (1)(c)2. below, using a group of
computer programs commonly known as “port scanners” or “probes” to
intentionally access any computer, computer system or computer network without
the permission of the owner of the computer, computer system or computer
network or other person authorized to give consent. The group of computer
programs referred to in this division includes, but is not limited to, those
computer programs that use a computer network to access a computer, computer
system or another computer network to determine any of the following: the
presence or types of computers or computer systems on a network; the computer
network’s facilities and capabilities; the availability of computer or network
services; the presence or versions of computer software, including, but not
limited to, operating systems, computer services or computer contaminants; the
presence of a known computer software deficiency that can be used to gain
unauthorized access to a computer, computer system or computer network; or any
other information about a computer, computer system or computer network not
necessary for the normal and lawful operation of the computer initiating the
access.
            2.   The group of computer programs referred to in division (1)
(c)1. above does not include standard computer software used for the normal
operation, administration, management and test of a computer, computer system
or computer network, including, but not limited to, domain name services, mail
transfer services, and other operating system services, computer programs
commonly called “ping”, “tcpdump” and “traceroute” and other network monitoring
and management computer software, and computer programs commonly knows as
“nslookup” and “whois” and other systems administration computer software.
         (d)   The intentional use of a computer, computer system or a computer
network in a manner that exceeds any right or permission granted by the owner
of the computer, computer system or computer network or other person authorized
to give consent.
      (2)   The term does not include the introduction of a computer
contaminant, as defined in this section, into a computer, computer system,
computer program or computer network.
   COMPUTER NETWORK. A set of related and remotely-connected computers and
communication facilities that includes more than one computer system that has
the capability to transmit among the connected computers and communication
facilities through the use of computer facilities.
   COMPUTER PROGRAM. An ordered set of data representing coded instructions or
statements that, when executed by a computer, causes the computer to process
data.
   COMPUTER SERVICES. Includes, but is not limited to, the use of a computer
system, computer network, computer program, data that is prepared for computer
use or data that is contained within a computer system or computer network.
   COMPUTER SOFTWARE. Computer programs, procedures and other documentation
associated with the operation of a computer system.
   COMPUTER SYSTEM. A computer and related devices, whether connected or
unconnected, including, but not limited to, data input, output and storage
devices, data communications links and computer programs and data that make the
system capable of performing specified special purpose data processing tasks.
   COUNTERFEIT TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. A telecommunications device that,
alone or with another telecommunications device, has been altered, constructed,
manufactured or programmed to acquire, intercept, receive or otherwise
facilitate the use of a telecommunications service or information service
without the authority or consent of the provider of the telecommunications
service or information service. The phrase includes, but is not limited to, a
clone telephone, clone microchip, tumbler telephone or tumbler microchip; a
wireless scanning device capable of acquiring, intercepting, receiving or
otherwise facilitating the use of telecommunications service or information
service without immediate detection; or a device, equipment, hardware or
software designed for, or capable of, altering or changing the electronic
serial number in a wireless telephone.
   CREATE A SUBSTANTIAL RISK OF SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO ANY PERSON. Includes
the creation of a substantial risk of serious physical harm to any emergency
personnel.
   CREDIT CARD. Includes, but is not limited to, a card, code, device or other
means of access to a customer’s account for the purpose of obtaining money,
property, labor or services on credit, or for initiating an electronic fund
transfer at a point-of-sale terminal, an automated teller machine or a cash
dispensing machine. It also includes a county procurement card issued under
R.C. § 301.29.
   DANGEROUS DRUG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   DANGEROUS ORDNANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2923.11.
   DATA. A representation of information, knowledge, facts, concepts or
instructions that are being or have been prepared in a formalized manner and
that are intended for use in a computer, computer system or computer network.
   DECEPTION. To knowingly deceive another or cause another to be deceived by
any false or misleading representation, by withholding information, by
preventing another from acquiring information or by any other conduct, act or
omission that creates, confirms or perpetuates a false impression in another,
including a false impression as to law, value, state of mind or other objective
or subjective fact.
   DEFRAUD. To knowingly obtain, by deception, some benefit for oneself or
another, or to knowingly cause, by deception, some detriment to another.
   DEPRIVE. To do any of the following:
      (1)   To withhold property of another permanently, or for a period that
appropriates a substantial portion of its value or use, or with purpose to
restore it only upon payment of a reward or other consideration;
      (2)   To dispose of property so as to make it unlikely that the owner
will recover it; and
      (3)   To accept, use or appropriate money, property or services, with
purpose not to give proper consideration in return for the money, property or
services, and without reasonable justification or excuse for not giving proper
consideration.
   DISABLED ADULT. A person who is 18 years of age or older and has some
impairment of body or mind that makes the person unable to work at any
substantially remunerative employment that the person otherwise would be able
to perform and that will, with reasonable probability, continue for a period of
at least 12 months without any present indication of recovery from the
impairment, or who is 18 years of age or older and has been certified as
permanently and totally disabled by an agency of this state or the United
States that has the function of so classifying persons.
   DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   ELDERLY PERSON. A person who is 65 years of age or older.
   ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER. Has the same meaning as in 92 Stat. 3728, 15
U.S.C. § 1693a, as amended.
   EMERGENCY PERSONNEL. Means any of the following persons:
      (1)   A peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 2935.01;
      (2)   A member of a fire department or other firefighting agency of a
municipal corporation, township, township fire district, joint fire district,
other political subdivision or combination of political subdivisions;
      (3)   A member of a private fire company, as defined in R.C. § 9.60, or a
volunteer firefighter;
      (4)    A member of a joint ambulance district or joint emergency medical
services district;
      (5)   An emergency medical technician-basic, emergency medical
technician-intermediate, emergency medical technician-paramedic, ambulance
operator or other member of an emergency medical service that is owned or
operated by a political subdivision or a private entity;
      (6)   The State Fire Marshal, the Chief Deputy State Fire Marshal, or an
assistant state fire marshal; and
      (7)   A fire prevention officer of a political subdivision or an arson,
fire, or similar investigator of a political subdivision.
   FEDERALLY-LICENSED FIREARMS DEALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5502.63.
   FIREARM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2923.11.
   FORGE. To fabricate or create, in whole or in part and by any means, any
spurious writing, or to make, execute, alter, complete, reproduce or otherwise
purport to authenticate any writing, when the writing in fact is not
authenticated by that conduct.
   GAIN ACCESS. To approach, instruct, communicate with, store data in,
retrieve data from or otherwise make use of any resources of a computer,
computer system or computer network, or any cable service or cable system both
as defined in R.C. § 2913.04.
   INFORMATION SERVICE. Subject to the following sentence, the offering of a
capability for generating, acquiring, storing, transforming, processing,
retrieving, utilizing or making available information via telecommunications,
including, but not limited to, electronic publishing. The term does not include
any use of a capability of a type described in he prior sentence for the
management, control or operation of a telecommunications system or the
management of a telecommunications service.
   INTERNET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 341.42.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   OCCUPIED STRUCTURE. Any house, building, outbuilding, watercraft, aircraft,
railroad car, truck, trailer, tent or other structure, vehicle or shelter, or
any portion thereof, to which any of the following applies:
      (1)   It is maintained as a permanent or temporary dwelling, even though
it is temporarily unoccupied and whether nor not any person is actually
present;
      (2)   At the time, it is occupied as the permanent or temporary
habitation of any person, whether or not any person is actually present;
      (3)   At the time, it is specially adapted for the overnight
accommodation of any person, whether or not any person is actually present; and
      (4)   At the time, any person is present or likely to be present in it.
   OWNER. Unless the context requires a different meaning, any person, other
than the actor, who is the owner of, who has possession or control of, or who
has any license or interest in property or services, even though the ownership,
possession, control, license or interest is unlawful.
   POLICE DOG OR HORSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.321.
   POLITICAL SUBDIVISION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2744.01.
   RENTED PROPERTY. Personal property in which the right of possession and use
of the property is for a short and possibly indeterminate term in return for
consideration; the rentee generally controls the duration of possession of the
property within any applicable minimum or maximum term; and the amount of
consideration is generally determined by the duration of possession of the
property.
   SERVICES. Includes labor, personal services, professional services, rental
services, public utility services including wireless service as defined in R.C.
§ 128.01(F)(1), common carrier services, and food, drink, transportation,
entertainment and cable television services and, for purposes of R.C. § 2913.04
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, includes cable services as
defined in that section.
   SLUG. An object that, by virtue of its size, shape, composition or other
quality, is capable of being inserted or deposited in a coin machine as an
improper substitute for a genuine coin, bill or token made for that purpose.
   STATE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2744.01.
   TELECOMMUNICATION. The origination, emission, dissemination, transmission or
reception of data, images, signals, sounds or other intelligence or equivalence
or intelligence of any nature over any communications system by any method,
including, but not limited to, a fiber optic, electronic, magnetic, optical,
digital or analog method.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Any instrument, equipment, machine or other
device that facilitates telecommunication, including, but not limited to, a
computer, computer network, computer chip, computer circuit, scanner,
telephone, cellular telephone, pager, personal communications device,
transponder, receiver, radio, modem or device that enables the use of a modem.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. The providing, allowing, facilitating or
generating of any form of telecommunication through the use of a
telecommunications device over a telecommunications system.
   THEFT OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. §§ 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2911.12, 2911.13,
2911.31, 2911.32, 2913.02, 2913.03, 2913.04, 2913.041, 2913.11, 2913.21,
2913.31, 2913.32, 2913.33, 2913.34, 2913.40, 2913.42, 2913.43, 2913.44,
2913.45, 2913.47, 2913.48; former R.C. §§ 2913.47 or 2913.48; or R.C. §§
2913.51, 2915.05 or 2921.41;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States substantially equivalent to any
section listed in division (1) above, or a violation of R.C. §§ 2913.41,
2913.81 or 2915.06 as it existed prior to July 1, 1996;
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former municipal ordinance or law
of this or any other state or the United States involving robbery, burglary,
breaking and entering, theft, embezzlement, wrongful conversion, forgery,
counterfeiting, deceit or fraud; and
      (4)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit or complicity in
committing any offense under division (1), (2) or (3) of this definition.
   UTTER. To issue, publish, transfer, use, put or send into circulation,
deliver or display.
   WRITING. Any computer software, document, letter, memorandum, note, paper,
plate, data, film or other thing having in or upon it any written, type-written
or printed matter, and any token, stamp, seal, credit card, badge, trademark,
label or other symbol of value, right, privilege, license or identification.
(R.C. §§ 2909.01, 2913.01) (Prior Code, § 9.05.01)
§ 131.02 CRIMINAL DAMAGING OR ENDANGERING.
   (A)   No person shall cause or create a substantial risk of physical harm to
any property of another without the other person’s consent:
      (1)   Knowingly, by any means; or
      (2)   Recklessly, by means of fire, explosion, flood, poison gas, poison,
radioactive material, caustic or corrosive material or other inherently
dangerous agency or substance.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal damaging or
endangering, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If violation of this section
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, criminal damaging or endangering
is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the property involved in a violation of this section is an
aircraft, an aircraft engine, propeller, appliance, spare part or any other
equipment or implement used or intended to be used in the operation of an
aircraft and if the violation creates a risk of physical harm to any person,
criminal damaging or endangering is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   If the property involved in a violation of this section is an
aircraft, an aircraft engine, propeller, appliance, spare part or any other
equipment or implement used or intended to be used in the operation of an
aircraft and if the violation creates a substantial risk of physical harm to
any person or if the property involved in a violation of this section is an
occupied aircraft, criminal damaging or endangering is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.06) (Prior Code, § 9.05.02)
§ 131.03 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   (A)   No person shall:
      (1)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage, destroy
or otherwise improperly tamper with the either of the following:
         (a)   The property of another; and
         (b)   One’s own residential real property with the purpose to decrease
the value of or enjoyment of the residential real property, if both of the
following apply.
            1.   The residential real property is subject to a mortgage.
            2.   The person has been served with a summons and complaint in a
pending residential mortgage loan foreclosure action relating to that real
property. As used in this division, “pending” includes the time between
judgment entry and confirmation of sale.
      (2)   With purpose to interfere with the use or enjoyment of property of
another, employ a tear gas device, stink bomb, smoke generator or other device
releasing a substance that is harmful or offensive to persons exposed, or that
tends to cause public alarm;
      (3)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage, destroy
or otherwise improperly tamper with a bench mark, triangulation station,
boundary marker or other survey station, monument or marker;
      (4)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage, destroy
or otherwise improperly tamper with any safety device, the property of another
or the property of the offender when required or placed for the safety of
others, so as to destroy or diminish its effectiveness or availability for its
intended purpose;
      (5)   With purpose to interfere with the use or enjoyment of the property
of another, set a fire on the land of another or place personal property that
has been set on fire on the land of another, which fire or personal property is
outside and apart from any building, other structure or personal property that
is on that land;
      (6)   Without privilege to do so, and with intent to impair the
functioning of any computer, computer system, computer network, computer
software or computer program, knowingly do any of the following:
         (a)   In any manner or by any means, including but not limited to
computer hacking, alter, damage, destroy or modify a computer, computer system,
computer network, computer software or computer program or data contained in a
computer, computer system, computer network, computer software or computer
program; and
         (b)   Introduce a computer contaminant into a computer, computer
system, computer network, computer software or computer program.
      (7)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly destroy or improperly tamper
with a critical infrastructure facility.
   (B)   As used in this section:
      CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2911.21.
      IMPROPERLY TAMPER. To change the physical location or the physical
condition of the property.
      SAFETY DEVICE. Any fire extinguisher, fire hose or fire axe, or any fire
escape, emergency exit or emergency escape equipment, or any life line, life-
saving ring, life preserver or life boat or raft, or any alarm, light, flare,
signal, sign, or notice intended to warn of danger or emergency, or intended
for other safety purposes, or any guard railing or safety barricade, or any
traffic sign or signal, or any railroad grade crossing sign, signal or gate, or
any first aid or survival equipment, or any other device, apparatus or
equipment intended for protecting or preserving the safety of persons or
property.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal mischief,
and shall be punished as provided in division (C)(2), (C)(3) or (C)(4) below.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4) or (A)(5)
above is a misdemeanor of the third degree. Except as otherwise provided in
this division, if the violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4) or
(A)(5) above creates a risk of physical harm to any person, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4) or (A)(5)
above is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the property involved in the
violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4) or (A)(5) above is an
aircraft, an aircraft engine, propeller, appliance, spare part, fuel,
lubricant, hydraulic fluid, any other equipment, implement or material used or
intended to be used in the operation of an aircraft, or any cargo carried or
intended to be carried in an aircraft and if the violation creates any risk of
physical harm to any person, or if the aircraft in question is an occupied
aircraft, criminal mischief committed in violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2),
(A)(3), (A)(4) or (A)(5) above is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, criminal
mischief committed in violation of division (A)(6) above is a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
         (b)   If the value of the computer, computer system, computer network,
computer software, computer program or data involved in the violation of
division (A)(6) above or the loss to the victim resulting from the violation is
$1,000 or more, or if the computer, computer system, computer network, computer
software, computer program or data involved in the violation of division (A)(6)
above is used or intended to be used in the operation of an aircraft and the
violation creates any risk of physical harm to any person, or if the aircraft
in question is an occupied aircraft, criminal mischief committed in violation
of division (A)(6) above is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (4)   Criminal mischief committed in violation of division (A)(7) above
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.07) (Prior Code, § 9.05.03)
§ 131.04 VALUATION OF STOLEN PROPERTY.
   (A)   If more than one item of property or services is involved in a theft
offense or in a violation of R.C. § 1716.14(A) involving a victim who is an
elderly person or disabled adult, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, the value of the property or services involved for the purpose of
determining the value as required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value
of all property or services involved in the offense.
   (B)   (1)   When a series of offenses under R.C. § 2913.02, or a series of
violations of, attempts to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate or
complicity in violations of R.C. § 1716.14(A), R.C. §§ 2913.02, 2913.03 or
2913.04, R.C. § 2913.21(B)(1) or (B)(2), or R.C. §§ 2913.31 or 2913.43
involving a victim who is an elderly person or disabled adult, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, is
committed by the offender in the offender’s same employment, capacity, or
relationship to another, all of those offenses shall be tried as a single
offense. When a series of offenses under R.C. § 2913.02, or a series of
violations of, attempts to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate or
complicity in violations of R.C. §§ 913.02 or 2913.43 involving a victim who is
an active duty service member or spouse of an active duty service member, or
any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, is
committed by the offender in the offender’s same employment, capacity or
relationship to another, all of those offenses shall be tried as a single
offense. The value of the property or services involved in the series of
offenses for the purpose of determining the value as required by R.C. § 2913.61
(A) is the aggregate value of all property and services involved in all
offenses in the series.
      (2)   If an offender commits a series of offenses under R.C. § 2913.02
that involves a common course of conduct to defraud multiple victims, all of
the offenses may be tried as a single offense. If an offender is being tried
for the commission of a series of violations of, attempts to commit a violation
of, conspiracies to violate, or complicity in violations of R.C. § 1716.14(A),
R.C. §§ 2913.02, 2913.03 or 2913.04, R.C. § 2913.21(B)(1) or (B)(2) or R.C. §
2913.31 or 2913.43, whether committed against one victim or more than one
victim, involving a victim who is an elderly person or disabled adult, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, pursuant
to a scheme or course of conduct, all of those offenses may be tried as a
single offense. If an offender is being tried for the commission of a series of
violations of, attempts to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate, or
complicity in violations of R.C. §§ 2913.02 or 2913.43, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, whether committed
against one victim or more than one victim, involving a victim who is an active
duty service member or spouse of an active duty service member pursuant to a
scheme or course of conduct, all of those offenses may be tried as a single
offense. If the offenses are tried as a single offense, the value of the
property or services involved for the purpose of determining the value as
required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value of all property and
services involved in all of the offenses in the course of conduct.
      (3)   When a series of two or more offenses under R.C. §§ 2913.40,
2913.48 or 2921.41 is committed by the offender in the offender’s same
employment, capacity, or relationship to another, all of those offenses may be
tried as a single offense. If the offenses are tried as a single offense, the
value of the property or services involved for the purpose of determining the
value as required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value of all property
and services involved in all of the offenses in the series of two or more
offenses.
      (4)   In prosecuting a single offense under division (B)(1), (B)(2) or
(B)(3) above, it is not necessary to separately allege and prove each offense
in the series. Rather, it is sufficient to allege and prove that the offender,
within a given span of time, committed one or more theft offenses or violations
of R.C. § 2913.40, 2913.48 or 2921.41 in the offender’s same employment,
capacity or relationship to another as described in division (B)(1) or (B)(3)
above, or committed one or more theft offenses that involve a common course of
conduct to defraud multiple victims or a scheme or course of conduct as
described in division (B)(2) above. While it is not necessary to separately
allege and prove each offense in the series in order to prosecute a single
offense under division (B)(1), (B)(2) or (B)(3) above, it remains necessary in
prosecuting them as a single offense to prove the aggregate value of the
property or services in order to meet the requisite statutory offense level
sought by the prosecution.
   (C)   The following criteria shall be used in determining the value of
property or services involved in a theft offense:
      (1)   The value of an heirloom, memento, collector’s item, antique,
museum piece, manuscript, document, record or other thing that has intrinsic
worth to its owner and that either is irreplaceable or is replaceable only on
the expenditure of substantial time, effort or money, is the amount which would
compensate the owner for its loss.
      (2)   The value of personal effects and household goods, and of
materials, supplies, equipment and fixtures used in the profession, business,
trade, occupation or avocation of its owner, which property is not covered
under division (C)(1) above, and which retains substantial utility for its
purpose regardless of its age or condition, is the cost of replacing such
property with new property of like kind and quality.
      (3)   The value of any real or personal property that is not covered
under division (C)(1) or (C)(2) above, and the value of services, is the fair
market value of the property or services. As used in this section, FAIR MARKET
VALUE is the money consideration which a buyer would give and a seller would
accept for property or services, assuming that the buyer is willing to buy and
the seller is willing to sell, that both are fully informed as to all facts
material to the transaction, and that neither is under any compulsion to act.
   (D)   Without limitation on the evidence which may be used to establish the
value of property or services involved in a theft offense:
      (1)   When the property involved is personal property held for sale at
wholesale or retail, the price at which the property was held for sale is prima
facie evidence of its value;
      (2)   When the property involved is a security or commodity traded on an
exchange, the closing price or, if there is no closing price, the asked price,
given in the latest marked quotation prior to the offense, is prima facie
evidence of the value of the security or commodity;
      (3)   When the property involved is livestock, poultry or raw
agricultural products for which a local market price is available, the latest
local market price prior to the offense is prima facie evidence of the value of
the livestock, poultry or products;
      (4)   When the property involved is a negotiable instrument, the face
value is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument;
      (5)   When the property involved is a warehouse receipt, bill of lading,
pawn ticket, claim check or other instrument entitling the holder or bearer to
receive property, the face value or, if there is no face value, the value of
the property covered by the instrument less any payment necessary to receive
the property, is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument;
      (6)   When the property involved is a ticket of admission, ticket for
transportation, coupon, token or other instrument entitling the holder or
bearer to receive property or services, the face value or, if there is no face
value, the value of the property or services which may be received by the
instrument is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument;
      (7)   When the services involved are gas, electricity, water, telephone,
transportation, shipping or other services for which the rate is established by
law, the duly established rate is prima facie evidence of the value of the
services; and
      (8)   When the services involved are services for which the rate is not
established by law, and the offender has been notified prior to the offense of
the rate for the services, either in writing, or orally, or by posting in a
manner reasonably calculated to come to the attention of potential offenders,
the rate contained in the notice is prima facie evidence of the value of the
services.
(R.C. § 2913.61(B) - (E)) (Prior Code, § 9.05.04)
§ 131.05 CRIMINAL TRESPASS; AGGRAVATED TRESPASS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly enter or remain on the land or premises of another;
      (2)   Knowingly enter or remain on the land or premises of another, the
use of which is lawfully restricted to certain persons, purposes, modes or
hours, when the offender knows the offender is in violation of any such
restriction or is reckless in that regard;
      (3)   Recklessly enter or remain on the land or premises of another, as
to which notice against unauthorized access or presence is given by actual
communication to the offender, or in a manner prescribed by law, or by posting
in a manner reasonably calculated to come to the attention of potential
intruders, or by fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to restrict
access;
      (4)   Being on the land or premises of another, negligently fail or
refuse to leave upon being notified by signage posted in a conspicuous place or
otherwise being notified to do so by the owner or occupant, or the agent or
servant of either; and
      (5)   Knowingly enter or remain on a critical infrastructure facility.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that the land or
premises involved was owned, controlled or in custody of a public agency.
   (C)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that the offender was
authorized to enter or remain on the land or premises involved, when the
authorization was secured by deception.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal trespass.
Criminal trespass in violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3) or (A)(4)
above is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Criminal trespass in violation of
division (A)(5) above is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28, if the person, in committing the
violation of this section, used a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle, the court shall impose a fine of two times the usual amount
imposed for the violation.
      (3)   If an offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to two or more violations of this section, R.C. § 2911.21 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, and the offender, in committing each violation,
used a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle, the court, in
addition to or independent of all other penalties imposed for the violation,
may impound the certificate of registration of that snowmobile or off-highway
motorcycle or the certificate of registration and license plate of that all-
purpose vehicle for not less than 60 days. In such a case, R.C. § 4519.47
applies.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, if the
offender, in committing the violation of this section, used an all-purpose
vehicle, the Clerk of the Court shall pay the fine imposed pursuant to this
section to the State Recreational Vehicle Fund created by R.C. § 4519.11.
   (F)   As used in divisions (A) through (E) above:
      ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLE, OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE, and SNOWMOBILE. Have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 4519.01.
      CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY. Means:
         (a)   One of the following, if completely enclosed by a fence or other
physical barrier that is obviously designed to exclude intruders, or if clearly
marked with signs that are reasonably likely to come to the attention of
potential intruders and that indicate entry is forbidden without site
authorization:
            1.   A petroleum or alumina refinery;
            2.   An electric generating facility, substation, switching
station, electrical control center or electric transmission and distribution
lines and associated equipment;
            3.   A chemical, polymer or rubber manufacturing facility;
            4.   A water intake structure, water treatment facility, waste
water facility, drainage facility, water management facility or any similar
water or sewage treatment system and its water and sewage piping;
            5.   A natural gas company facility or interstate natural gas
pipeline, including a pipeline interconnection, a natural gas compressor
station and associated facilities, city gate or town border station, metering
station, above-ground piping, regulator station, valve site, delivery station,
fabricated assembly or any other part of a natural gas storage facility
involved in the gathering, storage, transmission or distribution of gas;
            6.   A telecommunications central switching office or remote
switching facility or an equivalent network facility that serves a similar
purpose;
            7.   Wireline or wireless telecommunications infrastructure,
including telecommunications towers and telephone poles and lines, including
fiber optic lines;
            8.   A port, trucking terminal or other freight transportation
facility;
            9.   A gas processing plant, including a plant used in the
processing, treatment, or fractionation of natural gas or natural gas liquids;
            10.   A transmission facility used by a federally licensed radio or
television station;
            11.   A steel-making facility that uses an electric arc furnace to
make steel;
            12.   A facility identified and regulated by the United States
Department of Homeland Security’s Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards
Program under 6 C.F.R. part 27;
            13.   A dam that is regulated by the state or federal government;
            14.   A crude oil or refined products storage and distribution
facility, including valve sites, pipeline interconnections, pump station,
metering station, below- or above-ground pipeline or piping and truck loading
or off-loading facility;
            15.   A video service network and broadband infrastructure,
including associated buildings and facilities, video service headends, towers,
utility poles and utility lines such as fiber optic lines. As used in this
division, “video service network” has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21.
            16.   Any above-ground portion of an oil, gas, hazardous liquid or
chemical pipeline, tank or other storage facility;
            17.   Any above-ground portion of a well, well pad or production
operation;
            18.   A laydown area or construction site for pipe and other
equipment intended for use on an interstate or intrastate natural gas or crude
oil pipeline; and
            19.   Any mining operation, including any processing equipment,
batching operation or support facility for that mining operation.
         (b)   With respect to a video service network or broadband or wireless
telecommunications infrastructure, the above-ground portion of a facility
installed in a public right-of-way on a utility pole or in a conduit;
         (c)   Any railroad property; and
         (d)   An electronic asset of any of the following:
            1.   An electric light company that is a public utility under R.C.
§ 4905.02;
            2.   An electric cooperative, as defined in R.C. § 4928.01;
            3.   A municipal electric utility, as defined in R.C. § 4928.01;
            4.   A natural gas company that is a public utility under R.C. §
4905.02;
            5.   A telephone company that is a public utility under R.C. §
4905.02; and
            6.   A video service provider, including a cable operator, as those
terms are defined in R.C. § 1332.21.
      ELECTRONIC ASSET. Includes, but is not limited to, the hardware, software
and data of a programmable electronic device; all communications, operations
and customer data networks; and the contents of those data networks.
      LAND or PREMISES. Includes any land, building, structure or place
belonging to, controlled by or in custody of another, and any separate
enclosure or room, or portion thereof.
      PRODUCTION OPERATION, WELL, and WELL PAD. Have the same meanings as in
R.C. § 1509.01.
(R.C. § 2911.21)
   (G)   Aggravated trespass.
      (1)   (a)   No person shall enter or remain on the land or premises of
another with purpose to commit on that land or those premises a misdemeanor,
the elements of which involve causing physical harm to another person or
causing another person to believe that the offender will cause physical harm to
that person.
         (b)   No person shall enter or remain on a critical infrastructure
facility with purpose to destroy or tamper with the facility.
      (2)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of aggravated trespass.
Aggravated trespass in violation of division (G)(1)(a) above is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. Aggravated trespass in violation of division (G)(1)(b)
above is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   As used in this division (G), CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 2911.21.
(R.C. § 2911.211)
   (H)   Criminal trespass on a place of public amusement.
      (1)   As used in this division (H), PLACE OF PUBLIC AMUSEMENT means a
stadium, theater, or other facility, whether licensed or not, at which a live
performance, sporting event or other activity takes place for entertainment of
the public and to which access is made available to the public, regardless of
whether admission is charged.
      (2)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly enter or
remain on any restricted portion of a place of public amusement and, as a
result of that conduct, interrupt or cause the delay of the live performance,
sporting event or other activity taking place at the place of public amusement
after a printed written notice has been given as provided in division (H)(4)(a)
below that the general public is restricted from access to that restricted
portion of the place of public amusement. A restricted portion of a place of
public amusement may include, but is not limited to, a playing field, an
athletic surface or a stage located at the place of public amusement.
      (3)   An owner or lessee of a place of public amusement, an agent of the
owner or lessee or a performer or participant at a place of public amusement
may use reasonable force to restrain and remove a person from a restricted
portion of the place of public amusement if the person enters or remains on the
restricted portion of the place of public amusement and, as a result of that
conduct, interrupts or causes the delay of the live performance, sporting
event, or other activity taking place at the place of public amusement. This
division does not provide immunity from criminal liability for any use of force
beyond reasonable force by an owner or lessee of a place of public amusement,
an agent of either the owner or lessee or a performer or participant at a place
of public amusement.
      (4)   (a)   Notice has been given that the general public is restricted
from access to a portion of a place of public amusement if a printed written
notice of the restricted access has been conspicuously posted or exhibited at
the entrance to that portion of the place of public amusement. If a printed
written notice is posted or exhibited as described in this division regarding a
portion of a place of public amusement, in addition to that posting or
exhibition, notice that the general public is restricted from access to that
portion of the place of public amusement also may be given, but is not required
to be given, by either of the following means:
            1.   By notifying the person personally, either orally or in
writing, that access to that portion of the place of public amusement is
restricted; and
            2.   By broadcasting over the public address system of the place of
public amusement an oral warning that access to that portion of the place of
public amusement is restricted.
         (b)   If notice that the general public is restricted from access to a
portion of a place of public amusement is provided by the posting or exhibition
of a printed written notice as described in division (H)(4)(a) above, the
municipality, in a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (H)(2)
above, is not required to prove that the defendant received actual notice that
the general public is restricted from access to a portion of a place of public
amusement.
      (5)   (a)   Whoever violates division (H)(2) above is guilty of criminal
trespass on a place of public amusement, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   In addition to any jail term, fine or other sentence, penalty or
sanction it imposes upon the offender pursuant to division (H)(5)(a) above, a
court may require an offender who violates this section to perform not less
than 30 and not more than 120 hours of supervised community service work.
(R.C. § 2911.23)
(Prior Code, § 9.05.05)
Cross-reference:
   Violation of protection orders, see §
135.17
§ 131.06 TAMPERING WITH A COIN MACHINE.
   No person, with purpose to commit theft or to defraud, shall knowingly
enter, force an entrance into, tamper with or insert any part of an instrument
into any coin machine. Whoever violates this section is guilty of tampering
with coin machines, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of this section or of any theft
offense as defined in R.C. § 2913.01, tampering with coin machines is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2911.32) (Prior Code, § 9.05.06)
§ 131.07 PETTY THEFT.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to deprive the owner of property or services,
shall knowingly obtain or exert control over either the property or services in
any of the following ways:
      (1)   Without the consent of the owner or person authorized to give
consent;
      (2)   Beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of the owner or
person authorized to give consent;
      (3)   By deception;
      (4)   By threat; and
      (5)   By intimidation.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of theft. Except as otherwise
provided in this division, a violation of this section is petty theft, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If any of the following criteria are met, then
a violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law:
      (1)   If the value of the property or services is $1,000 or more;
      (2)   If the property stolen is any of the property listed in R.C. §
2913.71;
      (3)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person, disabled adult,
active duty service member or spouse of an active duty service member;
      (4)   If the property stolen is a firearm or dangerous ordnance;
      (5)   If the property stolen is a motor vehicle;
      (6)   If the property stolen is any dangerous drug, or if the offender
previously has been convicted of a felony drug abuse offense;
      (7)   If the property stolen is a police dog or horse or an assistance
dog and the offender knows or should know that the property stolen is a police
dog or horse or an assistance dog;
      (8)   If the property stolen is anhydrous ammonia; or
      (9)    If the property stolen is a special purchase article as defined in
R.C. § 4737.04 or is a bulk merchandise container as defined in R.C. §
4737.012.
   (C)   In addition to the penalties described in division (B) above, if the
offender committed the violation by causing a motor vehicle to leave the
premises of an establishment at which gasoline is offered for retail sale
without the offender making full payment for gasoline that was dispensed into
the fuel tank of the motor vehicle or into another container, the court may do
one of the following:
      (1)   Unless division (C)(2) below applies, suspend for not more than six
months the offenders driver’s license, probationary driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit or nonresident
operating privilege;
      (2)   If the offender’s driver’s license, probationary driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit or nonresident
operating privilege has previously been suspended, pursuant to division (C)(1)
above, or any other substantially equivalent state or local law, impose a class
seven suspension of the offender’s license, permit or privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7), provided that the suspension shall be at
least six months;
      (3)   The court, in lieu of suspending the offender’s driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, probationary driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit or nonresident operating privilege pursuant to division (C)
(1) or (C)(2) above, instead may require the offender to perform community
service for a number of hours determined by the court.
   (D)   In addition to the penalties described in division (B) above, if the
offender committed the violation by stealing rented property or rental
services, the court may order that the offender make restitution pursuant to
R.C. § 2929.18 or R.C. § 2929.28. Restitution may include, but is not limited
to, the cost of repairing or replacing the stolen property, or the cost of
repairing the stolen property and any loss of revenue resulting from
deprivation of the property due to theft of rental services that is less than
or equal to the actual value of the property at the time it was rented.
Evidence of intent to commit theft of rented property or rental services shall
be determined pursuant to the provisions of R.C. § 2913.72.
   (E)   The sentencing court that suspends an offender’s license, permit or
nonresident operating privilege under division (C) above may grant the offender
limited driving privileges during the period of the suspension in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 4510.
(R.C. § 2913.02) (Prior Code, § 9.05.07)
Statutory reference:
   Felony theft provisions, see R.C. § 2913.02(B)
§ 131.08 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF A VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly use or operate an aircraft, motor vehicle,
motorcycle, motorboat or other motor-propelled vehicle without the consent of
the owner or person authorized to give consent.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly use or operate an aircraft, motor vehicle,
motorboat or other motor-propelled vehicle without the consent of the owner or
person authorized to give consent, and either remove it from this state, or
keep possession of it for more than 48 hours.
   (C)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under this section:
      (1)   At the time of the alleged offense, the actor, though mistaken,
reasonably believed that he or she was authorized to use or operate the
property; and
      (2)   At the time of the alleged offense, the actor reasonably believed
that the owner or person empowered to give consent would authorize the actor to
use or operate the property.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unauthorized use of a
vehicle.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (D)(1), a violation
of division (A) above is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the victim of
the offense is an elderly person or disabled adult and if the victim incurs a
loss as a result of the violation, a violation of division (A) above is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (B) above is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.03) (Prior Code, § 9.05.08)
Statutory reference:
   Theft offense involving a motor vehicle, offender to pay towing and storage
fees, see R.C. § 2913.82
§ 131.09 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly use or operate the property of another
without the consent of the owner or person authorized to give consent.
   (B)   No person, in any manner and by any means, including, but not limited
to, computer hacking, shall knowingly gain access to, attempt to gain access to
or cause access to be gained to any computer, computer system, computer
network, cable service, cable system, telecommunications device,
telecommunications service or information service without the consent of, or
beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of, the owner of the
computer, computer system, computer network, cable service, cable system,
telecommunications device, telecommunications service or information service or
other person authorized to give consent.
   (C)   Except as permitted under R.C. § 5503.101, no person shall knowingly
gain access to, attempt to gain access to, cause access to be granted to or
disseminate information gained from access to the law enforcement automated
database system created pursuant to R.C. § 5503.10 without the consent of, or
beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of, the chair of the Law
Enforcement Automated Data System Steering Committee.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly gain access to, attempt to gain access to,
cause access to be granted to or disseminate information gained from access to
the state law enforcement gateway established and operated pursuant to R.C. §
109.57(C)(1) without the consent of, or beyond the scope of the express or
implied consent of, the Superintendent of the Bureau of Criminal Identification
and Investigation.
   (E)   The affirmative defenses contained in R.C. § 2913.03(C) are
affirmative defenses to a charge under this section.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (A) above is guilty of unauthorized use of
property. Except as otherwise provided in this division, unauthorized use of
property is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (1)   If unauthorized use of property is committed for the purpose of
devising or executing a scheme to defraud or to obtain property or services,
unauthorized use of property is whichever of the following is applicable.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided below, unauthorized use of property
is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the value of the property or services or the loss to the
victim is $1,000 or more, it is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (2)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled
adult, unauthorized use of property is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (B) above is guilty of unauthorized use of
computer, cable or telecommunication property, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (H)   Whoever violates division (C) above is guilty of unauthorized use of
the law enforcement automated database system, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (I)   Whoever violates division (D) above is guilty of unauthorized use of
the state law enforcement gateway, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (J)   As used in this section:
      CABLE OPERATOR. Any person or group of persons that does either of the
following:
         (a)   Provides cable service over a cable system and directly through
one or more affiliates owns a significant interest in that cable system; and
         (b)   Otherwise controls or is responsible for, through any
arrangement, the management and operation of a cable system.
      CABLE SERVICE. Any of the following:
         (a)   The one-way transmission to subscribers of video programming or
of information that a cable operator makes available to all subscribers
generally;
         (b)   Subscriber interaction, if any, that is required for the
selection or use of video programming or of information that a cable operator
makes available to all subscribers generally, both as described in division (a)
above; and
         (c)   Any cable television service.
      CABLE SYSTEM. Any facility, consisting of a set of closed transmission
paths and associated signal generation, reception and control equipment that is
designed to provide cable service that includes video programming and that is
provided to multiple subscribers within a community. The term does not include
any of the following:
         (a)   Any facility that serves only to retransmit the television
signals of one or more television broadcast stations;
         (b)   Any facility that serves subscribers without using any public
right-of-way;
         (c)   Any facility of a common carrier that, under 47 U.S.C. § 522(7)
(c), is excluded from the term “cable system” as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(7);
         (d)   Any open video system that complies with 47 U.S.C. § 573; and
         (e)   Any facility of any electric utility used solely for operating
its electric utility system.
(R.C. § 2913.04)
   (K)   Possession of municipal property.
      (1)   No person shall, without being authorized, have in his or her
control or possession any equipment, tools, implements or other property
belonging to the municipality.
(R.C. § 5589.12)
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (K) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 5589.99(B)) (Prior Code, § 9.05.09)
Statutory reference:
   Telecommunications: fraud and unlawful use of a device, felony offenses, see
R.C. §§ 2913.05 and 2913.06
§ 131.10 PASSING BAD CHECKS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CHECK. Includes any form of debit from a demand deposit account,
including but not limited to any of the following:
         (a)   A check, bill of exchange, draft, order of withdrawal or similar
negotiable or non-negotiable instrument; and
         (b)   An electronic check, electronic transaction, debit card
transaction, check card transaction, substitute check, web check or any form of
automated clearing house transaction.
      ISSUE A CHECK. Causing any form of debit from a demand deposit account.
   (B)   No person, with purpose to defraud, shall issue or transfer or cause
to be issued or transferred a check or other negotiable instrument, knowing
that it will be dishonored or knowing that a person has ordered or will order
stop payment on the check or other negotiable instrument.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, a person who issues or transfers a check
or other negotiable instrument is presumed to know that it will be dishonored
if either of the following occurs:
      (1)   The drawer has no account with the drawee at the time of issue or
the stated date, whichever is later; and
      (2)   The check or other negotiable instrument was properly refused
payment for insufficient funds upon presentment within 30 days after issue or
the stated date, whichever is later, and the liability of the drawer, indorser
or any party who may be liable thereon is not discharged by payment or
satisfaction within ten days after receiving notice of dishonor.
   (D)   In determining the value of the payment for purposes of division (E)
below, the court may aggregate all checks and other negotiable instruments that
the offender issued or transferred or caused to be issued or transferred in
violation of division (B) above within a period of 180 consecutive days.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of passing bad checks.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, passing bad checks is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the check or checks or other negotiable instrument or
instruments are issued or transferred to a single vendor or single other person
for the payment of $1,000 or more, or if the check or checks or other
negotiable instrument or instruments are issued or transferred to multiple
vendors or persons for the payment of $1,500 or more, passing bad checks is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.11) (Prior Code, § 9.05.10)
§ 131.11 MISUSE OF CREDIT CARDS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Practice deception for the purpose of procuring the issuance of a
credit card, when a credit card is issued in actual reliance thereon;
      (2)   Knowingly buy or sell a credit card from or to a person other than
the issuer; and
      (3)   As an officer, employee or appointee of a political subdivision or
as a public servant as defined under R.C. § 2921.01, knowingly misuse a credit
card account held by a political subdivision.
   (B)   No person, with purpose to defraud, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Obtain control over a credit card as security for a debt;
      (2)   Obtain property or services by the use of a credit card, in one or
more transactions, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the card
has expired or been revoked, or was obtained, is retained or is being used in
violation of law;
      (3)   Furnish property or services upon presentation of a credit card,
knowing that the card is being used in violation of law; and
      (4)   Represent or cause to be represented to the issuer of a credit card
that property or services have been furnished, knowing that the representation
is false.
   (C)   No person, with purpose to violate this section, shall receive,
possess, control or dispose of a credit card.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of misuse of credit cards.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) below, a violation
of division (A), (B)(1) or (C) above is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division or division (D)
(3) below, a violation of division (B)(2), (B)(3) or (B)(4) above is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the cumulative retail value of the property and services
involved in one or more violations of division (B)(2), (B)(3) or (B)(4) above
which violations involve one or more credit card accounts and occur within a
period of 90 consecutive days commencing on the date of the first violation, is
$1,000 or more, misuse of credit cards is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled
adult, and if the offense involves a violation of division (B)(1) or (B)(2)
above, misuse of credit cards is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2913.21) (Prior Code, § 9.05.11)
§ 131.12 MAKING OR USING SLUGS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Insert or deposit a slug in a coin machine, with purpose to
defraud; and
      (2)   Make, possess or dispose of a slug, with purpose of enabling
another to defraud by inserting or depositing it in a coin machine.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making or using slugs, a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2913.33) (Prior Code, § 9.05.12)
§ 131.13 DEFRAUDING A LIVERY OR HOSTELRY.
   In a prosecution of a person for a theft offense that alleges that the
person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she was facilitating a
fraud, hired or rented an aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat,
sailboat, camper, trailer, horse, buggy or other property or equipment, kept or
operated any of the same that has been hired or rented, or engaged
accommodations at a hotel, motel, inn, campground or other hostelry, it is
prima facie evidence of purpose to defraud if the person did any of the
following:
   (A)   Used deception to induce the rental agency to furnish the person with
the aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat, sailboat, camper, trailer,
horse, buggy or other property or equipment, or used deception to induce the
hostelry to furnish the person with accommodations;
   (B)   Hired or rented any aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat,
sailboat, camper, trailer, horse, buggy or other property or equipment, or
engaged accommodations, knowing that he or she is without sufficient means to
pay the hire or rental;
   (C)   Absconded without paying the hire or rental;
   (D)   Knowingly failed to pay the hire or rental as required by the contract
of hire or rental, without reasonable excuse for the failure; and
   (E)   Knowingly failed to return hired or rented property as required by the
contract of hire or rental, without reasonable excuse for the failure.
(R.C. § 2913.41) (Prior Code, § 9.05.13)
§ 131.14 TAMPERING WITH RECORDS.
   (A)   No person, knowing that he or she has no privilege to do so, and with
purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she is facilitating a fraud, shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Falsify, destroy, remove, conceal, alter, deface or mutilate any
writing, computer software, data or record; and
      (2)   Utter any writing or record, knowing it to have been tampered with
as provided in division (A)(1) above.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of tampering with records.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) below, if the offense does
not involve data or computer software, tampering with records is whichever of
the following is applicable.
         (a)   If division (B)(1)(b) below does not apply, it is a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
         (b)   If the writing or record is a will unrevoked at the time of the
offense, it is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) below, if the offense
involves a violation of division (A) above involving data or computer software,
tampering with records is whichever of the following is applicable:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2)(b) below, it is
a misdemeanor of the first degree; and
         (b)   If the value of the data or computer software involved in the
offense or the loss to the victim is $1,000 or more or if the offense is
committed for the purpose of devising or executing a scheme to defraud or to
obtain property or services and the value of the property or services or the
loss to the victim is $7,500 or more, it is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the writing, data, computer software or record is kept by or
belongs to a local, state or federal governmental entity, it is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.42) (Prior Code, § 9.05.14)
§ 131.15 DEFRAUDING CREDITORS.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud one or more of his or her
creditors, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Remove, conceal, destroy, encumber, convey or otherwise deal with
any of his or her property; and
      (2)   Misrepresent or refuse to disclose to a fiduciary appointed to
administer or manage his or her affairs or estate, the existence, amount or
location of any of his or her property, or any other information regarding the
property which he or she is legally required to furnish to the fiduciary.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of defrauding creditors.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, defrauding creditors is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the property involved is
$1,000 or more, defrauding creditors is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.45) (Prior Code, § 9.05.15)
§ 131.16 RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY.
      (A)   No person shall receive, retain or dispose of property of another
knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the property has been
obtained through commission of a theft offense.
   (B)   It is not a defense to a charge of receiving stolen property in
violation of this section that the property was obtained by means other than
through the commission of a theft offense if the property was explicitly
represented to the accused person as being obtained through the commission of a
theft offense.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of receiving stolen property.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, receiving stolen property is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If any of the following criteria are met, then
a violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law:
      (1)   The value of the property involved is $1,000 or more;
      (2)   The property involved is any of the property listed in R.C. §
2913.71;
      (3)   The property involved is a firearm or dangerous ordnance, as
defined in R.C. § 2923.11;
      (4)   The property involved is a motor vehicle, as defined in R.C. §
4501.01;
      (5)   The property involved is any dangerous drug, as defined in R.C. §
4729.01; or
      (6)   The property involved in violation of this section is a special
purchase article, as defined in R.C. § 4737.04 or a bulk merchandise container,
as defined in R.C. § 4737.012.
(R.C. § 2913.51) (Prior Code, § 9.05.16)
§ 131.17 IMPERSONATING AN OFFICER.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she is
facilitating a fraud, or with purpose to induce another to purchase property or
services, shall personate a law enforcement officer, or an inspector,
investigator or agent of any governmental agency.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of personating an officer, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2913.44) (Prior Code, § 9.05.17)
Cross-reference:
   Impersonating an officer (non-fraud offense), see §
132.13
§ 131.18 FILING A FALSE REPORT.
   (A)   No person shall willfully give false information or false report in
the calling, telephoning, summoning or in any way directing the police officer
or firefighter or the city in the performance of his or her duty.
   (B)   Whosoever violates division (A) above shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not exceeding $50.
(Prior Code, § 9.05.18)
§ 131.19 EXCLUSIONS.
   Regardless of the value of the property involved, and regardless of whether
the offender previously has been convicted of a theft offense, a violation of §
131.08 or §
131.18 is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the property
involved is any of the following:
   (A)   A credit card;
   (B)   A printed form for a check or other negotiable instrument, that on its
face identifies the drawer or maker for whose use it is designed or identifies
the account on which it is to be drawn, and that has not been executed by the
drawer or maker or on which the amount is blank;
   (C)   A motor vehicle identification license plate as prescribed by R.C. §
4503.22, a temporary motor vehicle license registration as prescribed by R.C. §
4503.182, or any comparable temporary motor vehicle license registration as
prescribed by the applicable law of another state or the United States;
   (D)   A blank form for a certificate of title or a manufacturer’s or
importer’s certificate to a motor vehicle, as prescribed by R.C. § 4505.07; and
   (E)   A blank form for any license listed in R.C. § 4507.01.
(R.C. § 2913.71) (Prior Code, § 9.05.19)
§ 131.20 ARSON; DETERMINING PROPERTY VALUE OR AMOUNT OF PHYSICAL HARM.
   (A)   No person, by means of fire or explosion, shall knowingly do any of
the following:
      (1)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
property of another without the other person’s consent;
      (2)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
property of the offender or another, with purpose to defraud;
      (3)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to the
statehouse or a courthouse, school building or other building or structure that
is owned or controlled by the state, any political subdivision or any
department, agency or instrumentality of the state or a political subdivision,
and that is used for public purposes;
      (4)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm, through the
offer or the acceptance of an agreement for hire or other consideration, to any
property of another without the other person’s consent or to any property of
the offender or another with purpose to defraud;
      (5)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any park,
preserve, wildlands, brush-covered land, cut-over land, forest, timberland,
greenlands, woods or similar real property that is owned or controlled by
another person, the state or a political subdivision without the consent of the
other person, the state or the political subdivision; and
      (6)   With purpose to defraud, cause or create a substantial risk of,
physical harm to any park, preserve, wildlands, brush-covered land, cut-over
land, forest, timberland, greenlands, woods or similar real property that is
owned or controlled by the offender, another person, the state or a political
subdivision.
   (B)   No person, by means of fire or explosion, shall knowingly do any of
the following:
      (1)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
structure of another that is not an occupied structure;
      (2)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm, through the
offer or the acceptance of an agreement for hire or other consideration, to any
structure of another that is not an occupied structure; and
      (3)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
structure that is not an occupied structure and that is in or on any park,
preserve, wildlands, brush-covered land, cut-over land, forest, timberland,
greenlands, woods or similar real property that is owned or controlled by
another person, the state or a political subdivision.
   (C)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B)(1)
or (B)(2) above that the defendant acted with the consent of the other person.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B)(3)
above that the defendant acted with the consent of the other person, the state
or the political subdivision.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of arson. A violation of
division (A)(1) or (B)(1) above is one of the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(2)(b) below, a
misdemeanor of the first degree; and
         (b)   If the value of the property or the amount of the physical harm
involved is $1,000 or more, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (2)   A violation of division (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), (A)(5), (A)(6), (B)
(2) or (B)(3) above is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.03)
   (E)   Determining property value or amount of physical harm. The following
criteria shall be used in determining the value of property or amount of
physical harm involved in a violation of division (A)(1) or (B)(1) above:
         (a)   If the property is an heirloom, memento, collector’s item,
antique, museum piece, manuscript, document, record or other thing that is
either irreplaceable or is replaceable only on the expenditure of substantial
time, effort or money, the value of the property or the amount of physical harm
involved is the amount that would compensate the owner for its loss.
         (b)   If the property is not covered under division (B)(1)(a) above,
and the physical harm is such that the property can be restored substantially
to its former condition, the amount of physical harm involved is the reasonable
cost of restoring the property.
         (c)   If the property is not covered under division (B)(1)(a) above,
and the physical harm is such that the property cannot be restored
substantially to its former condition, the value of the property, in the case
of personal property, is the cost of replacing the property with new property
of like kind and quality, and in the case of real property or real property
fixtures, is the difference in the fair market value of the property
immediately before and immediately after the offense.
      (1)   As used in this section, FAIR MARKET VALUE has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 2913.61.
      (2)   Prima facie evidence of the value of property, as provided in R.C.
§ 2913.61(D), may be used to establish the value of property pursuant to this
section.
(R.C. § 2909.11(B) - (D))
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated arson, felony offense, see R.C. § 2909.02
   Arson offender registration, see R.C. §§ 2909.13, 2909.14 and 2909.15
   Convicted arsonist to make restitution to public agency, see R.C. § 2929.71
§ 131.21 VEHICULAR VANDALISM.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ALLEY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      HIGHWAY. Any highway as defined in R.C. § 4511.01 or any lane, road,
street, alley, bridge or overpass.
      STREET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      VESSEL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1546.01.
      WATERS IN THIS STATE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1546.01.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly, and by any means, drop or throw any object
at, onto or in the path of any of the following:
      (1)   Any vehicle on a highway;
      (2)   Any boat or vessel on any of the waters in this state.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of vehicular vandalism. Except
as otherwise provided in this division (C), vehicular vandalism is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation of this section creates a
substantial risk of physical harm to any person or the violation of this
section causes serious physical harm to property, vehicular vandalism is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the violation of this
section causes physical harm to any person or serious physical harm to any
person, vehicular vandalism is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2909.09)
Statutory reference:
   Disrupting public services, felony offense, see R.C. § 2909.04
   Vandalism, felony offense, see R.C. § 2909.05
§ 131.22 DAMAGING OR ENDANGERING AIRCRAFT OR AIRPORT OPERATIONS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      AIR GUN. A hand pistol or rifle that propels its projectile by means of
releasing compressed air, carbon dioxide or other gas.
      AIRPORT OPERATIONAL SURFACE. Any surface of land or water that is
developed, posted or marked so as to give an observer reasonable notice that
the surface is designed and developed for the purpose of storing, parking,
taxiing or operating aircraft, or any surface of land or water that is actually
being used for any of those purposes.
      FIREARM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2923.11.
      SPRING-OPERATED GUN. A hand pistol or rifle that propels a projectile not
less than four or more than five millimeters in diameter by means of a spring.
   (B)   No person shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly throw an object at, or drop an object upon, any moving
aircraft; or
      (2)   Knowingly shoot with a bow and arrow, or knowingly discharge a
firearm, air gun or spring-operated gun, at or toward any aircraft.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly or recklessly shoot with a bow and arrow, or
shall knowingly or recklessly discharge a firearm, air gun or spring-operated
gun, upon or over any airport operational surface. This division does not apply
to the following:
      (1)   An officer, agent or employee of this or any other state or of the
United States, or a law enforcement officer, authorized to discharge firearms
and acting within the scope of his or her duties; and
      (2)   A person who, with the consent of the owner or operator of the
airport operational surface or the authorized agent of either, is lawfully
engaged in any hunting or sporting activity or is otherwise lawfully
discharging a firearm.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (B) above is guilty of endangering aircraft,
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation creates any risk of
physical harm to any person, or if the aircraft that is the subject of the
violation is occupied, endangering aircraft is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (C) above is guilty of endangering airport
operations, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the violation creates a risk
of physical harm to any person or substantial risk of serious harm to any
person, endangering airport operations is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. In addition to any other penalty or sanction imposed for
the violation, the hunting license or permit of a person who violates division
(C) above while hunting shall be suspended or revoked pursuant to R.C. §
1533.68.
(R.C. § 2909.08(A) - (E))
§ 131.23 SECURING WRITINGS BY DECEPTION.
   (A)   No person, by deception, shall cause another to execute any writing
that disposes of or encumbers property, or by which a pecuniary obligation is
incurred.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of securing writings by
deception. Except as otherwise provided in this division, securing writings by
deception is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the property or
the obligation involved is $1,000 or more, securing writings by deception is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate to state law. If the victim of the
offense is an elderly person, disabled adult, active duty service member or
spouse of an active duty service member, securing writings by deception is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.43)
§ 131.24 INJURING VINES, BUSHES, TREES OR CROPS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall recklessly cut down,
destroy, girdle or otherwise injure a vine, bush, shrub, sapling, tree or crop
standing or growing on the land of another or upon public land.
   (B)   In addition to the penalty provided in division (C) below, whoever
violates this section is liable in treble damages for the injury caused.
(R.C. § 901.51)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 901.99(A))
§ 131.25 DETENTION AND ARREST OF SHOPLIFTERS AND THOSE COMMITTING MOTION
PICTURE PIRACY; PROTECTION OF INSTITUTIONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ARCHIVAL INSTITUTION. Any public or private building, structure or
shelter in which are stored historical documents, devices, records, manuscripts
or items of public interest, which historical materials are stored to preserve
the materials or the information in the materials, to disseminate the
information contained in the materials, or to make the materials available for
public inspection or for inspection by certain persons who have a particular
interest in, use for or knowledge concerning the materials.
      AUDIOVISUAL RECORDING FUNCTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2913.07.
      FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.07.
      MUSEUM. Any public or private nonprofit institution that is permanently
organized for primarily educational or aesthetic purposes, owns or borrows
objects or items of public interest, and cares for and exhibits to the public
the objects or items.
      PRETRIAL DIVERSION PROGRAM. A rehabilitative, educational program
designed to reduce recidivism and promote personal responsibility that is at
least four hours in length and that has been approved by any court in this
state.
   (B)   A merchant, or an employee or agent of a merchant, who has probable
cause to believe that things offered for sale by a mercantile establishment
have been unlawfully taken by a person, may, for the purposes set forth in
division (D) below, detain the person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable
length of time within the mercantile establishment or its immediate vicinity.
   (C)   Any officer, employee or agent of a library, museum or archival
institution may, for the purposes set forth in division (D) below or for the
purpose of conducting a reasonable investigation of a belief that the person
has acted in a manner described in divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) below, detain a
person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable length of time within, or in the
immediate vicinity of, the library, museum or archival institution, if the
officer, employee or agent has probable cause to believe that the person has:
      (1)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly moved, defaced, damaged,
destroyed or otherwise improperly tampered with property owned by or in the
custody of the library, museum or archival institution; or
      (2)   With purpose to deprive the library, museum or archival institution
of property owned by it or in its custody, knowingly obtained or exerted
control over the property without the consent of the owner or person authorized
to give consent, beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of the
owner or person authorized to give consent, by deception or by threat.
   (D)   An officer, agent or employee of a library, museum or archival
institution pursuant to division (C) above or a merchant or an employee or
agent of a merchant pursuant to division (B) above may detain another person
for any of the following purposes:
      (1)   To recover the property that is the subject of the unlawful taking,
criminal mischief or theft;
      (2)   To cause an arrest to be made by a peace officer;
      (3)   To obtain a warrant of arrest; and
      (4)   To offer the person, if the person is suspected of the unlawful
taking, criminal mischief, or theft and notwithstanding any other provision of
this Code or the Ohio Revised Code, an opportunity to complete a pretrial
diversion program and to inform the person of the other legal remedies
available to the library, museum, archival institution or merchant.
   (E)   The owner or lessee of a facility in which a motion picture is being
shown, or the owner’s or lessee’s employee or agent, who has probable cause to
believe that a person is or has been operating an audiovisual recording
function of a device in violation of R.C. § 2917.07 may, for the purpose of
causing an arrest to be made by a peace officer or of obtaining an arrest
warrant, detain the person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable length of
time within the facility or its immediate vicinity.
   (F)   The officer, agent or employee of the library, museum or archival
institution, the merchant or an employee or agent of a merchant, or the owner,
lessee, employee or agent of the facility acting under divisions (B), (C) or
(E) above shall not search the person detained, search or seize any property
belonging to the person detained without the person’s consent, or use undue
restraint upon the person detained.
   (G)   (1)   Any peace officer may arrest without a warrant any person that
the officer has probable cause to believe has committed any act described in
divisions (C)(1) or (C)(2) above, that the officer has probable cause to
believe has committed an unlawful taking in a mercantile establishment, or that
the officer has reasonable cause to believe has committed an act prohibited by
R.C. § 2913.07.
      (2)   An arrest under this division shall be made within a reasonable
time after the commission of the act or unlawful taking.
(R.C. § 2935.041)
Statutory reference:
   Arrest without a warrant generally, see R.C. § 2935.03
   Probable cause, see R.C. § 2933.22
§ 131.26 INSURANCE FRAUD; WORKERS’ COMPENSATION FRAUD; MEDICAID FRAUD.
   (A)   Insurance fraud.
      (1)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall do either of the following:
         (a)   Present to, or cause to be presented to, an insurer any written
or oral statement that is part of, or in support of, an application for
insurance, a claim for payment pursuant to a policy or a claim for any other
benefit pursuant to a policy, knowing that the statement or any part of the
statement, is false or deceptive;
         (b)   Assist, aid, abet, solicit, procure or conspire with another to
prepare or make any written or oral statement that is intended to be presented
to an insurer as part of, or in support of, an application for insurance, a
claim for payment pursuant to a policy or a claim for any other benefit
pursuant to a policy, knowing that the statement, or any part of the statement,
is false or deceptive.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates this division (A) is guilty of insurance
fraud. Except as otherwise provided in this division, insurance fraud is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the amount of the claim that is false or deceptive is $1,000
or more, insurance fraud is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (3)   This division (A) shall not be construed to abrogate, waive, or
modify R.C. § 2317.02(A).
      (4)   As used in this division (A):
         DATA. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01 and additionally
includes any other representation of information, knowledge, facts, concepts or
instructions that are being or have been prepared in a formalized manner.
         DECEPTIVE. A statement, in whole or in part, would cause another to be
deceived because it contains a misleading representation, withholds
information, prevents the acquisition of information, or by any other conduct,
act or omission creates, confirms or perpetuates a false impression, including,
but not limited to, a false impression as to law, value, state of mind or other
objective or subjective fact.
         INSURER. Any person that is authorized to engage in the business of
insurance in this state under R.C. Title 39, the Ohio Fair Plan Underwriting
Association created under R.C. § 3929.43, any health insuring corporation and
any legal entity that is self-insured and provides benefits to its employees or
members.
         POLICY. A policy, certificate, contract or plan that is issued by an
insurer.
         STATEMENT. Includes, but is not limited to, any notice, letter or
memorandum; proof of loss; bill of lading; receipt for payment; invoice,
account or other financial statement; estimate of property damage; bill for
services; diagnosis or prognosis; prescription; hospital, medical or dental
chart or other record; x-ray, photograph, videotape or movie film; test result;
other evidence of loss, injury or expense; computer-generated document; and
data in any form.
(R.C. § 2913.47)
   (B)   Workers’ compensation fraud.
      (1)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Receive workers’ compensation benefits to which the person is
not entitled;
         (b)   Make or present or cause to be made or presented a false or
misleading statement with the purpose to secure payment for goods or services
rendered under R.C. Chapter 4121, 4123, 4127 or 4131 or to secure workers’
compensation benefits;
         (c)   Alter, falsify, destroy, conceal or remove any record or
document that is necessary to fully establish the validity of any claim filed
with, or necessary to establish the nature and validity of all goods and
services for which reimbursement or payment was received or is requested from
the Bureau of Workers’ Compensation, or a self-insuring employer under R.C.
Chapter 4121, 4123, 4127 or 4131;
         (d)   Enter into an agreement or conspiracy to defraud the Bureau of
Workers’ Compensation or a self-insuring employer by making or presenting or
causing to be made or presented a false claim for workers’ compensation
benefits;
         (e)   Make or present or cause to be made or presented a false
statement concerning manual codes, classification or employees, payroll, paid
compensation or number of personnel, when information of that nature is
necessary to determine the actual workers’ compensation premium or assessment
owed to the Bureau by an employer;
         (f)   Alter, forge or create a workers’ compensation certificate or
falsely show current or correct workers’ compensation coverage;
         (g)   Fail to secure or maintain workers’ compensation coverage as
required by R.C. Chapter 4123 with the intent to defraud the Bureau of Workers’
Compensation.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of workers’
compensation fraud. Except as otherwise provided in this division, workers’
compensation fraud is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of
premiums and assessments unpaid pursuant to actions described in divisions (B)
(1)(e), (B)(1)(f) or (B)(1)(g) above, or goods, services, property or money
stolen is $1,000 or more, workers’ compensation fraud is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Upon application of the governmental body that conducted the
investigation and prosecution of a violation of this division (B), the court
shall order the person who is convicted of the violation to pay the
governmental body its costs of investigating and prosecuting the case. These
costs are in addition to any other costs or penalty provided under federal,
state or local law.
      (4)   The remedies and penalties provided in this division (B) are not
exclusive remedies and penalties and do not preclude the use of any other
criminal or civil remedy or penalty for any act that is in violation of this
division (B).
      (5)   As used in this division (B):
         CLAIM. Any attempt to cause the Bureau of Workers’ Compensation, an
independent third-party with whom the administrator or an employer contracts
under R.C. § 4121.44, or a self-insuring employer to make payment or
reimbursement for workers’ compensation benefits.
         EMPLOYEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4123.01.
         EMPLOYER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4123.01.
         EMPLOYMENT. Participating in any trade, occupation, business, service
or profession for substantial gainful remuneration.
         FALSE. Wholly or partially untrue or deceptive.
         GOODS. Includes, but is not limited to, medical supplies, appliances,
rehabilitative equipment and any other apparatus or furnishing provided or used
in the care, treatment or rehabilitation of a claimant for workers’
compensation benefits.
         RECORDS. Any medical, professional, financial or business record
relating to the treatment or care of any person, to goods or services provided
to any person, or to rates paid for goods or services provided to any person,
or any record that the administrator of workers’ compensation requires pursuant
to rule.
         REMUNERATION. Includes, but is not limited to, wages, commissions,
rebates and any other reward or consideration.
         SELF-INSURING EMPLOYER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4123.01.
         SERVICES. Includes, but is not limited to, any service provided by any
health care provider to a claimant for workers’ compensation benefits and any
and all services provided by the Bureau as part of workers’ compensation
insurance coverage.
         STATEMENT. Includes, but is not limited to, any oral, written,
electronic, electronic impulse or magnetic communication notice, letter,
memorandum, receipt for payment, invoice, account, financial statement or bill
for services; a diagnosis, prognosis, prescription, hospital, medical or dental
chart or other record; and a computer generated document.
         WORKERS’ COMPENSATION BENEFITS. Any compensation or benefits payable
under R.C. Chapter 4121, 4123, 4127 or 4131.
(R.C. § 2913.48)
   (C)   Medicaid fraud.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly make or cause to be made a false or
misleading statement or representation for use in obtaining reimbursement from
the Medicaid program.
      (2)   No person, with purpose to commit fraud or knowing that the person
is facilitating a fraud, shall do either of the following:
         (a)   Contrary to the terms of the person’s provider agreement,
charge, solicit, accept or receive for goods or services that the person
provides under the Medicaid program any property, money or other consideration
in addition to the amount of reimbursement under the Medicaid program and the
person’s provider agreement for the goods or services and any cost-sharing
expenses authorized by R.C. § 5162.20 or rules adopted by the Medicaid Director
regarding the Medicaid program.
         (b)   Solicit, offer or receive any remuneration, other than any cost-
sharing expenses authorized by R.C. § 5162.20 or rules adopted by the Medicaid
Director regarding the Medicaid program, in cash or in kind, including but not
limited to a kickback or rebate, in connection with the furnishing of goods or
services for which whole or partial reimbursement is or may be made under the
Medicaid program.
      (3)   No person, having submitted a claim for or provided goods or
services under the Medicaid program, shall do either of the following for a
period of at least six years after a reimbursement pursuant to that claim, or a
reimbursement for those goods or services, is received under the Medicaid
program:
         (a)   Knowingly alter, falsify, destroy, conceal or remove any records
that are necessary to fully disclose the nature of all goods or services for
which the claim was submitted, or for which reimbursement was received, by the
person; or
         (b)   Knowingly alter, falsify, destroy, conceal or remove any records
that are necessary to disclose fully all income and expenditures upon which
rates of reimbursements were based for the person.
      (4)   Whoever violates this division (C) is guilty of Medicaid fraud.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, Medicaid fraud is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the value of the property, services or funds obtained
in violation of this section is $1,000 or more, Medicaid fraud is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Upon application of the governmental agency, office or other entity
that conducted the investigation and prosecution in a case under this section,
the court shall order any person who is convicted of a violation of this
section for receiving any reimbursement for furnishing goods or services under
the Medicaid program to which the person is not entitled to pay to the
applicant its cost of investigating and prosecuting the case. The costs of
investigation and prosecution that a defendant is ordered to pay pursuant to
this division shall be in addition to any other penalties for the receipt of
that reimbursement that are provided in this section, R.C. §§ 2913.40 or
5164.35, or any other provision of law.
      (6)   The provisions of this section are not intended to be exclusive
remedies and do not preclude the use of any other criminal or civil remedy for
any act that is in violation of this section.
      (7)   As used in this division (C):
         PROVIDER. Any person who has signed a provider agreement with the
Department of Medicaid to provide goods or services pursuant to the Medicaid
program or any person who has signed an agreement with a party to such a
provider agreement under which the person agrees to provide goods or services
that are reimbursable under the Medicaid program.
         PROVIDER AGREEMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5164.01.
         RECIPIENT. Any individual who receives goods or services from a
provider under the Medicaid program.
         RECORDS. Any medical, professional, financial or business records
relating to the treatment or care of any recipient, to goods or services
provided to any recipient or to rates paid for goods or services provided to
any recipient, and any records that are required by the rules of the Medicaid
Director to be kept for the Medicaid program.
         STATEMENT or REPRESENTATION. Any oral, written, electronic, electronic
impulse or magnetic communication that is used to identify an item of goods or
a service for which reimbursement may be made under the Medicaid program or
that states income and expense and is or may be used to determine a rate of
reimbursement under the Medicaid program.
(R.C. § 2913.40)
   (D)   Medicaid eligibility fraud.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following in an application
for enrollment in the Medicaid program or in a document that requires a
disclosure of assets for the purpose of determining eligibility for the
Medicaid program:
         (a)   Make or cause to be made a false or misleading statement;
         (b)   Conceal an interest in property;
         (c)   1.   Except as provided in division (D)(1)(c)2. below, fail to
disclose a transfer of property that occurred during the period beginning 36
months before submission of the application or document and ending on the date
the application or document was submitted;
            2.   Fail to disclose a transfer of property that occurred during
the period beginning 60 months before submission of the application or document
and ending on the date the application or document was submitted and that was
made to an irrevocable trust a portion of which is not distributable to the
applicant for or recipient of Medicaid or to a revocable trust.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates this division (D) is guilty of Medicaid
eligibility fraud. Except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation
of this division (D) is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the
Medicaid services paid as a result of the violation is $1,000 or more, a
violation of this division (D) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
         (b)   In addition to imposing a sentence under division (D)(2)(a) of
this section, the court shall order that a person who is guilty of Medicaid
eligibility fraud make restitution in the full amount of any Medicaid services
paid on behalf of an applicant for or recipient of Medicaid for which the
applicant or recipient was not eligible, plus interest at the rate applicable
to judgments on unreimbursed amounts from the date on which the Medicaid
services were paid to the date on which restitution is made.
         (c)   The remedies and penalties provided in this division (D) are not
exclusive and do not preclude the use of any other criminal or civil remedy for
any act that is in violation of this division (D).
      (3)   This division (D) does not apply to a person who fully disclosed in
an application for Medicaid or in a document that requires a disclosure of
assets for the purpose of determining eligibility for Medicaid all of the
interests in property of the applicant for or recipient of Medicaid, all
transfers of property by the applicant for or recipient of Medicaid, and the
circumstances of all those transfers.
      (4)   Any amounts of Medicaid services recovered as restitution under
this division (D) and any interest on those amounts shall be credited to the
General Revenue Fund, and any applicable federal share shall be returned to the
appropriate agency or department of the United States.
      (5)   As used in this division (D):
         MEDICAID SERVICES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5164.01.
         PROPERTY. Any real or personal property or other asset in which a
person has any legal title or interest.
(R.C. § 2913.401)
§ 131.27 INJURY TO PROPERTY BY HUNTERS.
   (A)   No person in the act of hunting, pursuing, taking or killing a wild
animal shall act in a negligent, careless or reckless manner so as to injure
property.
(R.C. § 1533.171(A))
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 1533.99(C))
Statutory reference:
   Violation, license revocation, see R.C. § 1533.171(B) through (E)
§ 131.28 EVIDENCE OF INTENT TO COMMIT THEFT OF RENTED PROPERTY OR RENTAL
SERVICES; EVIDENCE OF LACK OF CAPACITY TO CONSENT.
   (A)   Evidence of intent to commit theft of rented property or rental
services.
      (1)   As used in this division (A):
         RENTER. A person who owns rented property.
         RENTEE. A person who pays consideration to a renter for the use of
rented property.
      (2)   Each of the following shall be considered evidence of intent to
commit theft of rented property or rental services:
         (a)   At the time of entering into the rental contract, the rentee
presented the renter with identification that was materially false, fictitious
or not current with respect to name, address, place of employment or other
relevant information.
         (b)   After receiving a notice demanding the return of the rented
property as provided in division (A)(3) below, the rentee neither returned the
rented property nor made arrangements acceptable with the renter to return the
rented property.
      (3)   To establish that a rentee has an intent to commit theft of rented
property or rental services under division (A)(2)(b) above, a renter may issue
a notice to a rentee demanding the return of the rented property. The renter
shall mail the notice by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
rentee at the address the rentee gave when the rental contract was executed, or
to the rentee at the last address the rentee or the rentee’s agent furnished in
writing to the renter.
      (4)   A demand for the return of the rented property is not a
prerequisite for the prosecution of a rentee for theft of rented property or
rental services. The evidence specified in division (A)(2) above does not
constitute the only evidence that may be considered as evidence of intent to
commit theft of rented property or rental services.
(R.C. § 2913.72)
   (B)   Evidence of lack of capacity to consent. In a prosecution for any
alleged violation of §§
131.08 through
131.20,
131.23,
131.25 through
131.29 or
132.11, if the lack of consent of the victim is an element of the provision
that allegedly was violated, evidence that, at the time of the alleged
violation, the victim lacked the capacity to give consent is admissible to show
that the victim did not give consent. As used in this section, LACKS THE
CAPACITY TO CONSENT means being impaired for any reason to the extent that the
person lacks sufficient understanding or capacity to make and carry out
reasonable decisions concerning the person or the person’s resources.
(R.C. § 2913.73)
§ 131.29 FORGERY OF IDENTIFICATION CARDS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do either of the following:
      (1)   Forge an identification card.
      (2)   Sell or otherwise distribute a card that purports to be an
identification card, knowing it was forged.
   (B)   As used in this section, IDENTIFICATION CARD means a card that
includes personal information or characteristics of an individual, a purpose of
which is to establish the identity of the bearer described on the card, whether
the words “identity”, “identification”, “identification card” or other similar
words appear on the card.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of forging
identification cards or selling or distributing forged identification cards.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, forging identification cards or
selling or distributing forged identification cards is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of
division (A) above or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, forging identification cards or selling or distributing forged
identification cards is a misdemeanor of the first degree and, in addition, the
court shall impose upon the offender a fine not less than $250.
      (2)    If the victim of a violation of this section is an elderly person,
R.C. § 2913.31(C)(2)(b) applies and the offense shall be prosecuted under R.C.
§ 2913.31.
(R.C. § 2913.31(B), (C)(2))
Statutory reference:
   Forgery, felony provisions, see R.C. § 2913.31(A) and (C)(1)
   Forgery of originating address or other routing information in connection
with the transmission of an electronic mail advertisement, felony provisions,
see R.C. § 2307.64
§ 131.30 CRIMINAL SIMULATION.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud, or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Make or alter any object so that it appears to have value because
of antiquity, rarity, curiosity, source or authorship, which it does not in
fact possess;
      (2)   Practice deception in making, retouching, editing or reproducing
any photograph, movie film, video tape, phonograph record or recording tape;
      (3)   Falsely or fraudulently make, simulate, forge, alter or counterfeit
any wrapper, label, stamp, cork or cap prescribed by the Liquor Control
Commission under R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303, falsely or fraudulently cause to
be made, simulated, forged, altered or counterfeited any wrapper, label, stamp,
cork or cap prescribed by the Liquor Control Commission under R.C. Chapters
4301 and 4303, or use more than once any wrapper, label, stamp, cork or cap
prescribed by the Liquor Control Commission under R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303;
and
      (4)   Offer, or possess with the purpose to offer, any object that the
person knows to have been simulated as provided in divisions (A)(1), (A)(2) or
(A)(3) above.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal simulation.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, criminal simulation is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the loss to the victim is $1,000 or more, criminal simulation is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.32)
§ 131.31 TRADEMARK COUNTERFEITING.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Attach, affix or otherwise use a counterfeit mark in connection
with the manufacture of goods or services, whether or not the goods or services
are intended for sale or resale;
      (2)   Possess, sell or offer for sale tools, machines, instruments,
materials, articles or other items of personal property with the knowledge that
they are designed for the production or reproduction of counterfeit marks;
      (3)   Purchase or otherwise acquire goods, and keep or otherwise have the
goods in the person’s possession, with the knowledge that a counterfeit mark is
attached to, affixed to or otherwise used in connection with the goods and with
the intent to sell or otherwise dispose of the goods;
      (4)   Sell, offer for sale or otherwise dispose of goods with the
knowledge that a counterfeit mark is attached to, affixed to or otherwise used
in connection with the goods; and
      (5)   Sell, offer for sale or otherwise provide services with the
knowledge that a counterfeit mark is used in connection with that sale, offer
for sale or other provision of the services.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of trademark counterfeiting.
      (1)   A violation of division (A)(1) above is guilty of a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)    Except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of
division (A)(2) above is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
circumstances of the violation indicate that the tools, machines, instruments,
materials, articles or other items of personal property involved in the
violation were intended for use in the commission of a felony, a violation of
division (A)(2) above is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of
division (A)(3), (A)(4) or (A)(5) above is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the cumulative sales price of the goods or services to which or in
connection with which the counterfeit mark is attached, affixed or otherwise
used in the offense is $1,000 or more, a violation of divisions (A)(3), (A)(4)
or (A)(5) above is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   A defendant may assert as an affirmative defense to a charge of a
violation of this section defenses, affirmative defenses, and limitations on
remedies that would be available in a civil, criminal or administrative action
or proceeding under the Lanham Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 1051 through 1127, as
amended, the Trademark Counterfeiting Act of 1984, being 18 U.S.C. § 2320, as
amended, R.C. Chapter 1329 or another section of the Ohio Revised Code, or
common law.
   (D)   (1)   Law enforcement officers may seize pursuant to Criminal Rule 41,
R.C. Chapter 2933 or R.C. Chapter 2981 either of the following:
         (a)   Goods to which or in connection with which a person attached,
affixed, otherwise used or intended to attach, affix or otherwise use a
counterfeit mark in violation of this section.
         (b)   Tools, machines, instruments, materials, articles, vehicles or
other items of personal property that are possessed, sold, offered for sale or
used in a violation of this section or in an attempt to commit or complicity in
the commission of a violation of this section.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of R.C. Chapter 2981, if a
person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of this section, an
attempt to violate this section, or complicity in a violation of this section,
the court involved shall declare that the goods described in division (D)(1)(a)
above and the personal property described in division (D)(1)(b) above are
contraband and are forfeited. Prior to the court’s entry of judgment under
Criminal Rule 32, the owner of a registered trademark or service mark that is
the subject to the counterfeit mark may recommend a manner in which the
forfeited goods and forfeited personal property should be disposed of. If that
owner makes a timely recommendation of a manner of disposition, the court is
not bound by the recommendation. If that owner makes a timely recommendation of
a manner of disposition, the court may include in its entry of judgment an
order that requires appropriate persons to dispose of the forfeited goods and
forfeited personal property in the recommended manner. If the owner fails to
make a timely recommendation of a manner of disposition or if that owner makes
a timely recommendation of a manner of disposition but the court determines to
not follow the recommendation, the court shall include in its entry of
judgement an order that requires the law enforcement agency that employs the
law enforcement officer who seized the forfeited goods or the forfeited
personal property to destroy them or cause their destruction.
   (E)   This section does not affect the rights of an owner of a trademark or
service mark, or the enforcement in a civil action or in administrative
proceedings of the rights of an owner or a trademark or service mark under the
Lanham Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 1051 through 1127, as amended, the Trademark
Counterfeiting Act of 1984, being 18 U.S.C. § 2320, as amended, R.C. Chapter
1329, or another section of the Ohio Revised Code, or common law.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      COUNTERFEIT MARK.
         (a)   Except as provided in division (b) below, the term means a
spurious trademark or a spurious service mark that satisfies both of the
following:
            1.   It is identical with or substantially indistinguishable from a
mark that is registered on the principal register in the United States Patent
and Trademark Office for the same goods or services as the goods or services to
which or in connection with which the spurious trademark or spurious service
mark is attached, affixed, or otherwise used, or from a mark that is registered
with the Secretary of State pursuant to R.C. §§ 1329.54 through 1329.67 for the
same goods or services as the goods or services to which or in connection with
which the spurious trademark or spurious service mark is attached, affixed or
otherwise used, and the owner of the registration uses that registered
trademark, whether or not the offender knows that the mark is registered in a
manner described in this division (a)1.
            2.   Its use is likely to cause confusion or mistake or to deceive
other persons.
         (b)   The term does not include a mark or other designation that is
attached to, affixed to, or otherwise used in connection with goods or services
if the holder of the right to use the mark or other designation authorizes the
manufacturer, producer or vendor of those goods or services to attach, affix,
or otherwise use the mark or other designation in connection with those goods
or services at the time of their manufacture, production or sale.
      CUMULATIVE SALES PRICE. The product of the lowest single unit sales price
charged or sought to be charged by an offender for goods to which or in
connection with which a counterfeit mark is attached, affixed, or otherwise
used or of the lowest single service transaction price charged or sought to be
charged by an offender for services in connection with which a counterfeit mark
is used, multiplied by the total number of those goods or services, whether or
not units of goods are sold or are in an offender’s possession, custody or
control.
      REGISTERED TRADEMARK OR SERVICE MARK. A trademark or service mark that is
registered in a manner described in division (a) of the definition of
“counterfeit mark”.
      SERVICE MARK. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1329.54.
      TRADEMARK. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1329.54.
(R.C. § 2913.34)
§ 131.32 DIMINISHING OR INTERFERING WITH FORFEITABLE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall destroy, damage, remove or transfer property that is
subject to forfeiture or otherwise take any action in regard to property that
is subject to forfeiture with purpose to do any of the following:
      (1)   Prevent or impair the state’s or political subdivision’s lawful
authority to take the property into its custody or control under R.C. Chapter
2981 or to continue holding the property under its lawful custody or control;
      (2)   Impair or defeat the court’s continuing jurisdiction over the
person and property; and
      (3)   Devalue property that the person knows, or has reasonable cause to
believe, is subject to forfeiture proceedings under R.C. Chapter 2981.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interference with or
diminishing forfeitable property. Except as otherwise provided in this division
(B), interference with or diminishing forfeitable property is a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
      (2)   If the value of the property is $1,000 or more, interference with
or diminishing forfeitable property is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2981.07)
§ 131.33 RECORDING CREDIT CARD, TELEPHONE OR SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBERS.
   (A)   No person shall record or cause to be recorded either of the
following:
      (1)   A credit card account number of the other party to a transaction,
when a check, bill of exchange or other draft is presented for payment; or
      (2)   The telephone number or Social Security account number of the other
party to a transaction, when payment is made by credit card charge agreement,
check, bill of exchange or other draft.
   (B)   Division (A) above does not apply to a transaction, if all of the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   The credit card account number, Social Security account number or
telephone number is recorded for a legitimate business purpose, including
collection purposes.
      (2)   The other party to the transaction consents to the recording of the
credit card account number, Social Security account number or telephone number.
      (3)   The credit card account number, Social Security account number or
telephone number that is recorded during the course of the transaction is not
disclosed to any third-party for any purposes other than collection purposes
and is not used to market goods or services unrelated to the goods or services
purchased in the transaction.
   (C)   Nothing in this section prohibits the recording of the number of a
credit card account when given in lieu of a deposit to secure payment in the
event of default, loss, damage or other occurrence, or requires a person to
accept a check presented for payment, if the other party to the transaction
refuses to consent to the recording of the number of the party’s Social
Security account or license to operate a motor vehicle.
(R.C. § 1349.17)
   (D)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 1349.99(A))
§ 131.34 PROSECUTIONS FOR THEFT OF UTILITIES.
   (A)   In a prosecution for a theft offense, as defined in R.C. § 2913.01,
that involves alleged tampering with a gas, electric, steam or water meter,
conduit or attachment of a utility that has been disconnected by the utility,
proof that a meter, conduit or attachment of a utility has been tampered with
is prima facie evidence that the person who is obligated to pay for the service
rendered through the meter, conduit or attachment, and who is in possession or
control of the meter, conduit or attachment at the time the tampering occurred
has caused the tampering with intent to commit a theft offense. In a
prosecution for a theft offense, as defined in R.C. § 2913.01, that involves
the alleged reconnection of a gas, electric, steam or water meter, conduit or
attachment of a utility that has been disconnected by the utility, proof that a
meter, conduit or attachment disconnected by a utility has been reconnected
without the consent of the utility is prima facie evidence that the person in
possession or control of the meter, conduit or attachment at the time of the
reconnection has reconnected the meter, conduit or attachment with intent to
commit a theft offense.
   (B)   As used in this section:
      TAMPER. To interfere with, damage or bypass a utility meter, conduit or
attachment with the intent to impede the correct registration of a meter or the
proper functions of a conduit or attachment so as to reduce the amount of
utility service that is registered on the meter.
      UTILITY. Any electric light company, gas company, natural gas company,
pipe-line company, water-works company or heating or cooling company, as
defined in R.C. § 4905.03(C), (D), (E), (F), (G) or (H), its lessees, trustees
or receivers, or any similar utility owned or operated by a political
subdivision.
(R.C. § 4933.18)
   (C)   Each electric light company, gas company, natural gas company,
pipeline company, waterworks company or heating or cooling company, as defined
by R.C. § 4905.03(C), (D), (E), (F), (G) or (H), or its lessees, trustees or
receivers, and each similar utility owned or operated by a political
subdivision, shall notify its customers, on an annual basis, that tampering
with or bypassing a meter constitutes a theft offense that could result in the
imposition of criminal sanctions.
(R.C. § 4933.19)
§ 131.35 MOTION PICTURE PIRACY.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      AUDIOVISUAL RECORDING FUNCTION. The capability of a device to record or
transmit a motion picture or any part of a motion picture by means of any
technology existing on, or developed after, March 9, 2004.
      FACILITY. A movie theater.
   (B)   No person, without the written consent of the owner or lessee of the
facility and of the licensor of the motion picture, shall knowingly operate an
audiovisual recording function of a device in a facility in which the motion
picture is being shown.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) above is guilty of motion picture
piracy, a misdemeanor of the first degree on the first offense and a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
   (D)   This section does not prohibit or restrict a lawfully authorized
investigative, law enforcement, protective or intelligence gathering employee
or agent of the government of this state or a political subdivision of this
state, or of the federal government, when acting in an official capacity, from
operating an audiovisual recording function of a device in any facility in
which a motion picture is being shown.
   (E)   Division (B) above does not limit or affect the application of any
other prohibition in this code or the Ohio Revised Code. Any act that is a
violation of both division (B) above and another provision of this code or the
Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under this section, under the other
provision of this code or the Ohio Revised Code, or under both this section and
the other provision of this code or the Ohio Revised Code.
(R.C. § 2913.07)
§ 131.36 RAILROAD VANDALISM; CRIMINAL TRESPASS; INTERFERENCE WITH OPERATION OF
TRAIN; GRADE CROSSING DEVICE VANDALISM.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly, and by any means, drop or throw any object
at, onto or in the path of, any railroad rail, railroad track, locomotive,
engine, railroad car or other vehicle of a railroad company while such vehicle
is on a railroad track.
   (B)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall climb upon or into any
locomotive, engine, railroad car or other vehicle of a railroad company when it
is on a railroad track.
   (C)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall disrupt, delay or prevent
the operation of any train or other vehicle of a railroad company while such
vehicle is on a railroad track.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) above is guilty of railroad vandalism.
Whoever violates division (B) above is guilty of criminal trespass on a
locomotive, engine, railroad car, or other railroad vehicle. Whoever violates
division (C) above is guilty of interference with the operation of a train.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, railroad vandalism; criminal
trespass on a locomotive, engine, railroad car or other railroad vehicle; and
interference with the operation of a train each is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the violation of division (A), (B) or (C) above causes serious
physical harm to property or creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any
person causes physical harm to any person, or causes serious physical harm to
any person, the violation is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
(R.C. § 2909.10)
   (E)   No person shall knowingly deface, damage, obstruct, remove or
otherwise impair the operation of any railroad grade crossing warning signal or
other protective device, including any gate, bell, light, crossbuck, stop sign,
yield sign, advance warning sign or advance pavement marking.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (E) above is guilty of railroad grade
crossing device vandalism. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
railroad grade crossing device vandalism is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the violation of division (E) above causes serious physical harm to property
or creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person, causes physical
harm to any person or causes serious physical harm to any person, railroad
grade crossing device vandalism is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2909.101)
§ 131.37 DESECRATION.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall purposely deface, damage,
pollute or otherwise physically mistreat any of the following:
      (1)   Any public monument;
      (2)   Any historical or commemorative marker, or any structure, Indian
mound or earthwork, cemetery, thing or site of great historical or
archaeological interest;
      (3)   A place of worship, its furnishings or religious artifacts or
sacred texts within the place of worship or within the grounds upon which the
place of worship is located;
      (4)   A work of art or museum piece; and
      (5)   Any other object of reverence or sacred devotion.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of desecration. A violation of
division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(4) or (A)(5) above is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. A violation of division (A)(3) above is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (C)   As used in this section, CEMETERY means any place of burial and
includes burial sites that contain American Indian burial objects placed with
or containing American Indian human remains.
(R.C. § 2927.11)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
Section
   
132.01   Riot
   
132.02   Failure to disperse
   
132.03   Disorderly conduct
   
132.04   Disturbing a lawful meeting
   
132.05   Misconduct at an emergency
   
132.06   Telephone harassment
   
132.07   Inducing panic
   
132.08   False alarms
   
132.09   Open containers
   
132.10   Justifiable use of force to suppress riot
   
132.11   Inciting to violence
   
132.12   Unlawful display of law enforcement emblem
   
132.13   Impersonating a peace officer
   
132.14   Safety of crowds attending live entertainment performances
   
132.15   Misconduct involving a public transportation system
Cross-reference:
   Personating an officer (fraud offense), see §
131.17
Statutory reference:
   Misuse of “Block Parent” or “McGruff House” symbol, see R.C. § 2917.46
§ 132.01 RIOT.
   (A)   No person shall participate with four or more others in a course of
disorderly conduct in violation of R.C. § 2917.11 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance:
      (1)   With purpose to commit or facilitate the commission of a
misdemeanor, other than disorderly conduct;
      (2)   With purpose to intimidate a public official or employee into
taking or refraining from official action, or with purpose to hinder, impede or
obstruct a function of government; and
      (3)   With purpose to hinder, impede or obstruct the orderly process of
administration or instruction at an educational institution, or to interfere
with or disrupt lawful activities carried on at the institution.
   (B)   No person shall participate with four or more others with purpose to
do an act with unlawful force or violence, even though the act might otherwise
be lawful.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of riot, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 2917.03)
   (D)   For the purposes of prosecuting violations of this section, the
prosecution is not required to allege or prove that the offender expressly
agreed with four or more others to commit any act that constitutes a violation
this section prior to or while committing those acts.
(R.C. § 2917.031)
(Prior Code, § 9.07.01)
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated riot, felony provisions, see R.C. § 2917.02
§ 132.02 FAILURE TO DISPERSE.
   (A)   Where five or more persons are participating in a course of disorderly
conduct in violation of R.C. § 2917.11 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, and there are other persons in the vicinity whose presence creates
the likelihood of physical harm to persons or property or of serious public
inconvenience, annoyance or alarm, a law enforcement officer or other public
official may order the participants and the other persons to disperse. No
person shall knowingly fail to obey the order.
   (B)   Nothing in this section requires persons to disperse who are peaceably
assembled for a lawful purpose.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to disperse.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3) below, failure to
disperse is a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   Failure to disperse is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if the
failure to obey the order described in division (A) above creates the
likelihood of physical harm to persons or is committed at the scene of a fire,
accident, disaster, riot or emergency of any kind.
(R.C. § 2917.04) (Prior Code, § 9.07.02)
§ 132.03 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly cause inconvenience, annoyance or alarm to
another, by doing any of the following:
      (1)   Engaging in fighting, in threatening harm to persons or property,
or in violent or turbulent behavior;
      (2)   Making unreasonable noise or an offensively coarse utterance,
gesture or display, or communicating unwarranted and grossly abusive language
to any person;
      (3)   Insulting, taunting or challenging another, under circumstances in
which that conduct is likely to provoke a violent response;
      (4)   Hindering or preventing the movement of persons on a public street,
road, highway or right-of-way, or to, from, within or upon public or private
property, so as to interfere with the rights of others, and by any act that
serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender; and
      (5)   Creating a condition that is physically offensive to persons or
that presents a risk of physical harm to persons or property, by any act that
serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender.
   (B)   No person while voluntarily intoxicated shall do either of the
following:
      (1)   In a public place or in the presence of two or more persons, engage
in conduct likely to be offensive or to cause inconvenience, annoyance or alarm
to persons of ordinary sensibilities, which conduct the offender, if he or she
were not intoxicated, should know is likely to have such effect on others;
      (2)   Engage in conduct or create a condition that presents a risk of
physical harm to himself, herself or another, or to the property of another.
   (C)   Violation of any statute or ordinance of which an element is operating
a motor vehicle, locomotive, watercraft, aircraft or other vehicle while under
the influence of alcohol or any drug of abuse is not a violation of division
(B) above.
   (D)   If a person appears to an ordinary observer to be intoxicated, it is
probable cause to believe that the person is voluntarily intoxicated for
purposes of division (B) above.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disorderly conduct.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (E)(2) and (E)(3) below,
disorderly conduct is a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Disorderly conduct is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if any of
the following applies:
         (a)   The offender persists in disorderly conduct after reasonable
warning or request to desist;
         (b)   The offense is committed in the vicinity of a school or in a
school safety zone;
         (c)   The offense is committed in the presence of any law enforcement
officer, firefighter, rescuer, medical person, emergency medical services
person or other authorized person who is engaged in the person’s duties at the
scene of a fire, accident, disaster, riot or emergency of any kind; and
         (d)   The offense is committed in the presence of any emergency
facility person who is engaged in the person’s duties in an emergency facility.
      (3)   If an offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to three or more violations of division (B) of this section, R.C. § 2917.11(B),
or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a violation
of division (B) above is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A SCHOOL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2925.01.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel”, as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency medical
services personnel”, as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
(R.C. § 2917.11) (Prior Code, § 9.07.03)
§ 132.04 DISTURBING A LAWFUL MEETING.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to prevent or disrupt a lawful meeting,
procession or gathering, shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Do any act which obstructs or interferes with the due conduct of
the meeting, procession or gathering; or
      (2)   Make any utterance, gesture or display which outrages the
sensibilities of the group.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disturbing a lawful
meeting, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2917.12) (Prior Code, § 9.07.04)
§ 132.05 MISCONDUCT AT AN EMERGENCY.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Hamper the lawful operations of any law enforcement officer,
firefighter, rescuer, medical person, emergency medical services person or
other authorized person engaged in the person’s duties at the scene of a fire,
accident, disaster, riot or emergency of any kind;
      (2)   Hamper the lawful activities of any emergency facility person who
is engaged in the person’s duties in an emergency facility; and
      (3)   Fail to obey the lawful order of any law enforcement officer
engaged in the law enforcement officer’s duties at the scene of or in
connection with a fire, accident, disaster, riot or emergency of any kind.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit access or deny
information to any news media representative in the lawful exercise of the news
media representative’s duties.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of misconduct at an emergency.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, misconduct at an emergency is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If violation of this section creates a risk
of physical harm to persons or property, misconduct at an emergency is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      EMERGENCY FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel”, as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency medical
services personnel”, as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
(R.C. § 2917.13) (Prior Code, § 9.07.05)
§ 132.06 TELEPHONE HARASSMENT.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make or cause to be made a
telecommunication, or knowingly permit a telecommunication to be made from a
telecommunications device under the person’s control, to another, if the caller
does any of the following:
      (1)   Makes the telecommunication with purpose to harass, intimidate or
abuse any person at the premises to which the telecommunication is made,
whether or not actual communication takes place between the caller and a
recipient;
      (2)   Describes, suggests, requests or proposes that the caller, the
recipient of the telecommunication, or any other person engage in sexual
activity, and the recipient or another person at the premises to which the
telecommunication is made has requested, in a previous telecommunication or in
the immediate telecommunication, that the caller not make a telecommunication
to the recipient or to the premises to which the telecommunication is made;
      (3)   During the telecommunication, violates R.C. § 2903.21 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (4)   Knowingly states to the recipient of the telecommunication that the
caller intends to cause damage to or destroy public or private property, and
the recipient, any member of the recipient’s family, or any other person who
resides at the premises to which the telecommunication is made owns, leases,
resides or works in, will at the time of the destruction or damaging be near or
in, has the responsibility of protecting, or insures the property that will be
destroyed or damaged;
      (5)   Knowingly makes the telecommunication to the recipient of the
telecommunication, to another person at the premises to which the
telecommunication is made, or to those premises, and the recipient or another
person at those premises previously has told the caller not to make a
telecommunication to those premises or to any persons at those premises;
      (6)   Knowingly makes any comment, request, suggestion or proposal to the
recipient of the telecommunication that is threatening, intimidating, menacing,
coercive or obscene with the intent to abuse, threaten or harass the recipient;
      (7)   Without a lawful business purpose, knowingly interrupts the
telecommunication service of any person;
      (8)   Without a lawful business purpose, knowingly transmits to any
person, regardless of whether the telecommunication is heard in its entirety,
any file, document or other communication that prevents that person from using
the person’s telephone service or electronic communication device;
      (9)   Knowingly makes any false statement concerning the death, injury,
illness, disfigurement, reputation, indecent conduct or criminal conduct of the
recipient of the telecommunication or family or household member of the
recipient with purpose to abuse, threaten, intimidate or harass the recipient;
      (10)   Knowingly incites another person through a telecommunication or
other means to harass or participate in the harassment of a person; and
      (11)   Knowingly alarms the recipient by making a telecommunication
without a lawful purpose at an hour or hours known to be inconvenient to the
recipient and in an offensive or repetitive manner.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall make or cause to be made a telecommunication or
permit a telecommunication to be made from a telecommunications device under
the person’s control, with purpose to abuse, threaten or harass another person.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly post a text or audio statement or an
image on an internet web site or web page for the purpose of abusing,
threatening or harassing another person.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of telecommunications
harassment.
      (2)   A violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(5), (A)(6), (A)
(7), (A)(8), (A)(9), (A)(10) or (A)(11) or (B) above is a misdemeanor of the
first degree on a first offense and a felony on each subsequent offense, which
shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(3), a violation
of division (A)(4) above is a misdemeanor of the first degree on a first
offense and a felony on each subsequent offense, to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If a violation of division (A)(4) above results in
economic harm of $1,000 or more, telecommunications harassment is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   No cause of action may be asserted in any court of this municipality
against any provider of a telecommunications service, interactive computer
service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, or against any
officer, employee or agent of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, for
any injury, death or loss to person or property that allegedly arises out of
the provider’s, officer’s, employee’s or agent’s provision of information,
facilities or assistance in accordance with the terms of a court order that is
issued in relation to the investigation or prosecution of an alleged violation
of this section. A provider of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, or an
officer, employee, or agent of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, is
immune from any civil or criminal liability for injury, death or loss to person
or property that allegedly arises out of the provider’s, officer’s, employee’s
or agent’s provision of information, facilities or assistance in accordance
with the terms of a court order that is issued in relation to the investigation
or prosecution of an alleged violation of this section.
   (E)   (1)   This section does not apply to a person solely because the
person provided access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control, including
having provided capabilities that are incidental to providing access or
connection to or from the electronic method of remotely transferring the
information, and that do not include the creation of the content of the
material that is the subject of the access or connection. In addition, any
person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control shall not be
liable for any action voluntarily taken in good faith to block the receipt or
transmission through its service of any information that the person believes
is, or will be sent, in violation of this section.
      (2)   Division (E)(1) above does not create an affirmative duty for any
person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control to block the
receipt or transmission through its service of any information that it believes
is, or will be sent, in violation of this section except as otherwise provided
by law.
      (3)   Division (E)(1) above does not apply to a person who conspires with
a person actively involved in the creation or knowing distribution of material
in violation of this section or who knowingly advertises the availability of
material of that nature.
      (4)   A provider or user of an interactive computer service, as defined
in 47 U.S.C. § 230, shall neither be treated as the publisher or speaker of any
information provided by another information content provider, as defined in 47
U.S.C. § 230, nor held civilly or criminally liable for the creation or
development of information provided by another information content provider, as
defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230. Nothing in this division shall be construed to
protect a person from liability to the extent that the person developed or
created any content in violation of this section.
   (F)   Divisions (A)(5) to (A)(11) and (B)(2) above do not apply to a person
who, while employed or contracted by a newspaper, magazine, press association,
news agency, news wire service, cable channel or cable operator or radio or
television station, is gathering, processing, transmitting, compiling, editing
or disseminating information for the general public within the scope of the
person’s employment in that capacity or the person’s contractual authority in
that capacity.
   (G)   As used in divisions (A) through (D) above:
      CABLE OPERATOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21.
      CALLER. The person described in division (A) above who makes or causes to
be made a telecommunication or who permits a telecommunication to be made from
a telecommunications device under that person’s control.
      ECONOMIC HARM. All direct, incidental and consequential pecuniary harm
suffered by a victim as a result of the criminal conduct. The term includes,
but is not limited to, all of the following:
         (a)   All wages, salaries or other compensation lost as a result of
the criminal conduct;
         (b)   The cost of all wages, salaries or other compensation paid to
employees for time those employees are prevented from working as a result of
the criminal conduct;
         (c)   The overhead costs incurred from the time that a business is
shut down as a result of the criminal conduct; and
         (d)   The loss of value to tangible or intangible property that was
damaged as a result of the criminal conduct.
      FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Any of the following:
         (a)   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
recipient of the telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in division
(A)(9) above is committed:
            1.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse or a former spouse of
the recipient;
            2.   A parent, a foster parent or a child of the recipient, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the recipient; and
            3.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse or
former spouse of the recipient, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse or former spouse of the
recipient.
         (b)   The natural parent of any child of whom the recipient of the
telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in division (A)(9) above is
committed is the other natural parent or is the putative other natural parent.
      PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE. A person who is living or has lived with the
recipient of the telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in division
(A)(9) above is committed in a common law marital relationship, who otherwise
is cohabiting with the recipient, or who otherwise has cohabited with the
recipient within five years prior to the date of the alleged commission of the
act in question.
      SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
      TELECOMMUNICATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   (H)   Nothing in this section prohibits a person from making a
telecommunication to a debtor that is in compliance with the “Fair Debt
Collection Practices Act”, 15 U.S.C. § 1692, as amended, or the “Telephone
Consumer Protection Act”, 47 U.S.C. § 227, as amended.
(R.C. § 2917.21) (Prior Code, § 9.07.06)
§ 132.07 INDUCING PANIC.
   (A)   No person shall cause the evacuation of any public place, or otherwise
cause serious public inconvenience or alarm, by doing any of the following:
      (1)   Initiating or circulating a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false;
      (2)   Threatening to commit any offense of violence; and
      (3)   Committing any offense, with reckless disregard of the likelihood
that its commission will cause serious public inconvenience or alarm.
   (B)   Division (A)(1) above does not apply to any person conducting an
authorized fire or emergency drill.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of inducing panic.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3) below, inducing
panic is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   If a violation of this section results in physical harm to any
person, inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law. If a violation of this section results in economic harm of $1,000 or more,
inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the
public place involved in a violation of division (A)(1) above is a school or an
institution of higher education, inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law. If a violation of this section pertains to a
purported, threatened or actual use of a weapon of mass destruction, inducing
panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   (1)   It is not a defense to a charge under this section that pertains
to a purported or threatened use of a weapon of mass destruction that the
offender did not possess or have the ability to use a weapon of mass
destruction or that what was represented to be a weapon of mass destruction was
not a weapon of mass destruction.
      (2)   Any act that is a violation of this section and any other section
of the Ohio Revised Code or this code may be prosecuted under this section, the
other section, or both sections.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      BIOLOGICAL AGENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2917.33.
      ECONOMIC HARM. Any of the following:
         (a)   All direct, incidental and consequential pecuniary harm suffered
by a victim as a result of the criminal conduct. “Economic harm” as described
in this division includes, but is not limited to, all of the following:
            1.   All wages, salaries or other compensation lost as a result of
the criminal conduct;
            2.   The cost of all wages, salaries or other compensation paid to
employees for time those employees are prevented from working as a result of
the criminal conduct;
            3.   The overhead costs incurred from the time that a business is
shut down as a result of the criminal conduct; and
            4.   The loss of value to tangible or intangible property that was
damaged as a result of the criminal conduct.
         (b)   All costs incurred by the state or any political subdivision as
a result of, or in making any response to, the criminal conduct that
constituted the violation of this section or R.C. § 2917.32, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, including, but not limited to,
all costs so incurred by any law enforcement officers, firefighters, rescue
personnel or emergency medical services personnel of the state or the political
subdivision.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSONNEL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2133.21.
      INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION. Any of the following:
         (a)   A state university or college as defined in R.C. § 3345.12(A)
(1), community college, state community college, university branch or technical
college;
         (b)   A private, nonprofit college, university or other post-secondary
institution located in this state that possesses a certificate of authorization
issued by the State Board of Regents pursuant to R.C. Chapter 1713; and
         (c)   A post-secondary institution with a certificate of registration
issued by the State Board of Career Colleges and Schools pursuant to R.C.
Chapter 3332.
      SCHOOL. Any school operated by a board of education or any school for
which the State Board of Education prescribes minimum standards under R.C. §
3301.07, whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or
training provided by the school is being conducted at the time a violation of
this section is committed.
      WEAPON OF MASS DESTRUCTION. Any of the following:
         (a)   Any weapon that is designed or intended to cause death or
serious physical harm through the release, dissemination or impact of toxic or
poisonous chemicals, or other precursors;
         (b)   Any weapon involving a disease organism or biological agent;
         (c)   Any weapon that is designed to release radiation or
radioactivity at a level dangerous to human life; and
         (d)   Any of the following, except to the extent that the item or
device in question is expressly excepted from the definition of “destructive
device” pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)(4) and regulations issued under that
section:
            1.   Any explosive, incendiary or poison gas bomb, grenade, rocket
having a propellant charge of more than four ounces, missile having an
explosive or incendiary charge of more than one-quarter ounce, mine or similar
device; and
            2.   Any combination of parts either designed or intended for use
in converting any item or device into any item or device described in division
(d)1. above and from which an item or device described in that division may be
readily assembled.
(R.C. § 2917.31) (Prior Code, § 9.07.07)
§ 132.08 FALSE ALARMS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Initiate or circulate a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false and likely to cause public inconvenience or alarm;
      (2)   Knowingly cause a false alarm of fire or other emergency to be
transmitted to or within any organization, public or private, for dealing with
emergencies involving a risk of physical harm to persons or property;
      (3)   Report to any law enforcement agency an alleged offense or other
incident within its concern, knowing that the offense did not occur; and
      (4)   Initiate or circulate a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false and likely to impede the operation of a critical
infrastructure facility.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any person conducting an authorized
fire or emergency drill.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making false alarms. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, making false alarms is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If a violation of this section results in economic harm of
$1,000 or more, making false alarms is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If a violation of this section pertains to a purported,
threatened or actual use of a weapon of mass destruction, making false alarms
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   (1)   It is not a defense to a charge under this section that pertains
to a purported or threatened use of a weapon of mass destruction that the
offender did not possess or have the ability to use a weapon of mass
destruction or that what was represented to be a weapon of mass destruction was
not a weapon of mass destruction.
      (2)   Any act that is a violation of this section and any other section
of the Ohio Revised Code or this code may be prosecuted under this section, the
other section, or both sections.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2911.21.
      ECONOMIC HARM and WEAPON OF MASS DESTRUCTION. Have the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2917.31.
(R.C. § 2917.32) (Prior Code, § 9.07.08)
§ 132.09 OPEN CONTAINERS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINE. A vehicle registered under R.C. § 4503.24.
      HIGHWAY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      STREET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   (B)   No person shall have in the person’s possession an opened container of
beer or intoxicating liquor in any of the following circumstances:
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(1)(e) below, in a state liquor
store;
      (2)   Except as provided in division (C) or (J) of this section, on the
premises of the holder of any permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control;
      (3)   In any other public place;
      (4)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) below, while operating or
being a passenger in or on a motor vehicle on any street, highway, or other
public or private property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking; and
      (5)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) below, while being in or
on a stationary motor vehicle on any street, highway, or other public or
private property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking.
   (C)   (1)   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened container
of any of the following:
         (a)   Beer or intoxicating liquor that has been lawfully purchased for
consumption on the premises where bought from the holder of an A-1-A, A-2, A-
2f, A-3a, D-1, D-2, D-3, D-3a, D-4, D-4a, D-5, D-5a, D-5b, D-5c, D-5d, D-5e, D-
5f, D-5g, D-5h, D-5i, D-5j, D-5k, D-5l, D-5m, D-5n, D-5o, D-7, D-8, E, F, F-2,
F-5, F-7 or F-8 permit;
         (b)   Beer, wine or mixed beverages served for consumption on the
premises by the holder of an F-3 permit, wine served as a tasting sample by an
A-2, S-1 or S-2 permit holder for consumption on the premises of a farmers
market for which an F-10 permit has been issued, or wine served for consumption
on the premises by the holder of an F-4 or F-6 permit;
         (c)   Beer or intoxicating liquor consumed on the premises of a
convention facility as provided in R.C. § 4303.201;
         (d)   Beer or intoxicating liquor to be consumed during tastings and
samplings approved by rule of the Liquor Control Commission; and
         (e)   Spiritous liquor to be consumed for purposes of a tasting
sample, as defined in R.C. § 4301.171.
      (2)   A person may have in the person’s possession on an F liquor permit
premises an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor that was not
purchased from the holder of the F permit if the premises for which the F
permit is issued is a music festival and the holder of the F permit grants
permission for that possession on the premises during the period for which the
F permit is issued. As used in this division (C)(2), MUSIC FESTIVAL means a
series of outdoor live musical performances extending for a period of at least
three consecutive days and located on an area of land of at least 40 acres.
      (3)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on a D-2 liquor
permit premises an opened or unopened container of wine that was not purchased
from the holder of the D-2 permit if the premises for which the D-2 permit is
issued is an outdoor performing arts center, the person is attending an
orchestral performance, and the holder of the D-2 permit grants permission for
the possession and consumption of wine in certain predesignated areas of the
premises during the period for which the D-2 permit is issued. As used in
division (C)(3)(a) above:
         OUTDOOR PERFORMING ARTS CENTER. An outdoor performing arts center that
is located on not less than 150 acres of land and that is open for performances
from the first day of April to the last day of October of each year.
         ORCHESTRAL PERFORMANCE. A concert comprised of a group of not fewer
than 40 musicians playing various musical instruments.
      (4)   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened or unopened
container of beer or intoxicating liquor at an outdoor location at which the
person is attending an orchestral performance as defined in division (C)(3)(b)
above if the person with supervision and control over the performance grants
permission for the possession and consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor in
certain predesignated areas of that outdoor location.
      (5)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on an F-9 liquor
permit premises an opened or unopened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
that was not purchased from the holder of the F-9 permit if the person is
attending either of the following:
            1.   An orchestral performance and the F-9 permit holder grants
permission for the possession and consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor in
certain predesignated areas of the premises during the period for which the F-
9 permit is issued; and
            2.   An outdoor performing arts event or orchestral performance
that is free of charge and the F-9 permit holder annually hosts not less than
25 other events or performances that are free of charge on the permit premises.
         (b)   As used in this division (C)(5), ORCHESTRAL PERFORMANCE has the
same meaning as in division (C)(3)(b) above.
      (6)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on the property
of an outdoor motorsports facility an opened or unopened container of beer or
intoxicating liquor that was not purchased from the owner of the facility if
both of the following apply:
            1.   The person is attending a racing event at the facility; and
            2.   The owner of the facility grants permission for the possession
and consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor on the property of the facility.
         (b)   As used in division (C)(6)(a) above:
            OUTDOOR MOTORSPORTS FACILITY. An outdoor racetrack to which all of
the following apply.
               a.   It is 2.4 miles or more in length.
               b.   It is located on 200 acres or more of land.
               c.   The primary business of the owner of the facility is the
hosting and promoting of racing events.
               d.   The holder of a D-1, D-2 or D-3 permit is located on the
property of the facility.
            RACING EVENT. A motor vehicle racing event sanctioned by one or
more motor racing sanctioning organizations.
      (7)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened
container of beer or intoxicating liquor at an outdoor location within an
outdoor refreshment area created under R.C. § 4301.82 if the opened container
of beer or intoxicating liquor was purchased from an A-1, A-1-A, A-1c, A-2, A-
2f, D class or F class permit holder to which both of the following apply.
            1.   The permit holder’s premises is located within the outdoor
refreshment area.
            2.   The permit held by the permit holder has an outdoor
refreshment area designation.
         (b)   This division (C)(7) does not authorize a person to do either of
the following:
            1.   Enter the premises of an establishment within an outdoor
refreshment area while possessing an opened container of beer or intoxicating
liquor acquired elsewhere; and
            2.   Possess an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
while being in or on a motor vehicle within an outdoor refreshment area, unless
the possession is otherwise authorized under division (D) or (E) below.
         (c)   As used in this division (C)(7), “D class permit holder” does
not include a D-6 or D-8 permit holder.
      (8)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on the property
of a market, within a defined F-8 permit premises, an opened container of beer
or intoxicating liquor that was purchased from a D permit premises that is
located immediately adjacent to the market if both of the following apply:
            1.   The market grants permission for the possession and
consumption of beer and intoxicating liquor within the defined F-8 permit
premises; and
            2.   The market is hosting an event pursuant to an F-8 permit and
the market has notified the division of liquor control about the event in
accordance with R.C. § 4303.208(A)(3).
         (b)   As used in this division (C)(8), MARKET means a market, for
which an F-8 permit is held, that has been in operation since 1860.
   (D)   This section does not apply to a person who pays all or a portion of
the fee imposed for use of a chauffeured limousine pursuant to a prearranged
contract or the guest of the person, when all of the following apply.
      (1)   The person or guest is a passenger in the limousine.
      (2)   The person or guest is located in the limousine, but is not
occupying a seat in the front compartment of the limousine where the operator
of the limousine is located.
      (3)   The limousine is located on any street, highway or other public or
private property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking.
   (E)   An opened bottle of wine that was purchased from the holder of a
permit that authorizes the sale of wine for consumption on the premises where
sold is not an opened container for the purposes of this section if both of the
following apply:
      (1)   The opened bottle of wine is securely resealed by the permit holder
or an employee of the permit holder before the bottle is removed from the
premises. The bottle shall be secured in such a manner that it is visibly
apparent if the bottle has been subsequently opened or tampered with.
      (2)   The opened bottle of wine that is resealed in accordance with
division (E)(1) above is stored in the trunk of a motor vehicle or, if the
motor vehicle does not have a trunk, behind the last upright seat or in an area
not normally occupied by the driver or passengers and not easily accessible by
the driver.
   (F)   (1)   Except if an ordinance or resolution is enacted or adopted under
division (F)(2) below, this section does not apply to a person who, pursuant to
a prearranged contract, is a passenger riding on a commercial quadricycle when
all of the following apply.
         (a)   The person is not occupying a seat in the front of the
commercial quadricycle where the operator is steering or braking.
         (b)   The commercial quadricycle is being operated on a street,
highway or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking.
         (c)   The person has in their possession on the commercial quadricycle
an opened container of beer or wine.
         (d)   The person has in their possession on the commercial quadricycle
not more than either 36 ounces of beer or 18 ounces of wine.
      (2)   The legislative authority may enact an ordinance or adopt a
resolution, as applicable, that prohibits a passenger riding on a commercial
quadricycle from possessing an opened container of beer or wine.
      (3)   As used in this section, COMMERCIAL QUADRICYCLE means a vehicle
that has fully-operative pedals for propulsion entirely by human power and that
meets all of the following requirements.
         (a)   It has four wheels and is operated in a manner similar to a
bicycle.
         (b)   It has at least five seats for passengers.
         (c)   It is designed to be powered by the pedaling of the operator and
the passengers.
         (d)   It is used for commercial purposes.
         (e)   It is operated by the vehicle owner or an employee of the owner.
   (G)   (1)   This section does not apply to a person that has in the person’s
possession an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor on the premises
of a market if the beer or intoxicating liquor has been purchased from a D
liquor permit holder that is located in the market.
      (2)   As used in this division (G), MARKET means an establishment that:
         (a)   Leases space in the market to individual vendors, not less than
50% of which are retail food establishments or food service operations licensed
under R.C. Chapter 3717;
         (b)   Has an indoor sales floor area of not less than 22,000 square
feet; and
         (c)   Hosts a farmer’s market on each Saturday from April through
December.
   (H)   As used in this section, ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 4303.185. An alcoholic beverage in a closed container being transported
under R.C. § 4303.185 to its final destination is not an opened container for
the purposes of this section if the closed container is securely sealed in such
a manner that it is visibly apparent if the closed container has been
subsequently opened or tampered with after sealing.
   (I)   This section does not apply to a person who has in the person’s
possession an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor in a public-use
airport, as described in R.C. § 4303.181(D)(2)(a)(iii), when both of the
following apply:
      (1)   Consumption of the opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
occurs in the area of the airport terminal that is restricted to persons taking
flights to and from the airport; and
      (2)   The consumption is authorized under R.C. § 4303.181(D)(2)(a).
   (J)   This section does not apply to a person that has in the person’s
possession an opened container of homemade beer or wine that is served in
accordance with R.C. § 4301.201(E).
(R.C. § 4301.62) (Prior Code, § 9.07.09)
§ 132.10 JUSTIFIABLE USE OF FORCE TO SUPPRESS RIOT.
   A law enforcement officer or firefighter engaged in suppressing a riot or in
protecting persons or property during a riot:
   (A)   Is justified in using force, other than deadly force, when and to the
extent he or she has probable cause to believe such force is necessary to
disperse or apprehend rioters; and
   (B)   Is justified in using force, including deadly force, when and to the
extent he or she has probable cause to believe such force is necessary to
disperse or apprehend rioters whose conduct is creating a substantial risk of
serious physical harm to persons.
(R.C. § 2917.05)
§ 132.11 INCITING TO VIOLENCE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly engage in conduct designed to urge or incite
another to commit any offense of violence when either of the following apply.
      (1)   The conduct takes place under circumstances that create a clear and
present danger that any offense of violence will be committed.
      (2)   The conduct proximately results in the commission of any offense of
violence.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of inciting to violence. If
the offense of violence that the other person is being urged or incited to
commit is a misdemeanor, inciting to violence is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the offense of violence that the other person is being urged or
incited to commit is a felony, inciting to violence is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2917.01)
§ 132.12 UNLAWFUL DISPLAY OF LAW ENFORCEMENT EMBLEM.
   (A)   No person who is not entitled to do so shall knowingly display on a
motor vehicle the emblem of a law enforcement agency or an organization of law
enforcement officers.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of the unlawful display of the
emblem of a law enforcement agency or an organization of law enforcement
officers, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2913.441)
§ 132.13 IMPERSONATING A PEACE OFFICER.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. An employee of the United States who
serves in a position the duties of which are primarily the investigation,
apprehension or detention of individuals suspected or convicted of offenses
under the criminal laws of the United States.
      IMPERSONATE. To act the part of, assume the identity of, wear the uniform
or any part of the uniform of or display the identification of a particular
person or of a member of a class of persons with purpose to make another person
believe that the actor is that particular person or is a member of that class
of persons.
      INVESTIGATOR OF THE BUREAU OF CRIMINAL IDENTIFICATION AND INVESTIGATION.
Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.11.
      PEACE OFFICER. A Sheriff, deputy sheriff, Marshal, deputy marshal, member
of the organized Police Department of a municipal corporation or township
constable, who is employed by a political subdivision of this state; a member
of a police force employed by a metropolitan housing authority under R.C. §
3735.31(D); a member of a police force employed by a regional transit authority
under R.C. § 306.35(Y); a state university law enforcement officer appointed
under R.C. § 3345.04; a veterans’ home police officer appointed under R.C. §
5907.02; a special police officer employed by a port authority under R.C. §
4582.04 or 4582.28; an officer, agent or employee of the state or any of its
agencies, instrumentalities or political subdivisions, upon whom, by statute, a
duty to conserve the peace or to enforce all or certain laws is imposed and the
authority to arrest violators is conferred, within limits of that statutory
duty and authority; or a state highway patrol trooper whose primary duties are
to preserve the peace, to protect life and property and to enforce the laws,
ordinances or rules of the state or any of its political subdivisions.
      PRIVATE POLICE OFFICER. Any security guard, special police officer,
private detective or other person who is privately employed in a police
capacity.
   (B)   No person shall impersonate a peace officer, private police officer,
investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation or
federal law enforcement officer.
   (C)   No person, by impersonating a peace officer, private police officer,
investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation or
federal law enforcement officer, shall arrest or detain any person, search any
person or search the property of any person.
   (D)   No person, with purpose to commit or facilitate the commission of an
offense, shall impersonate a peace officer, private police officer, federal law
enforcement officer, an officer, agent or employee of the municipality or the
state or investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation.
   (E)   No person shall commit a felony while impersonating a peace officer,
private police officer, federal law enforcement officer, an officer, agent or
employee of the municipality or of the state, or investigator of the Bureau of
Criminal Identification and Investigation.
   (F)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B) above that
the impersonation of the peace officer, private police officer, federal law
enforcement officer, an officer, agent or employee of the municipality or of
the state, or investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation was for a lawful purpose.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (B) above is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. Whoever violates division (C) or (D) above is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the purpose of a violation of division (D)
above is to commit or facilitate the commission of a felony, a violation of
division (D) above is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
Whoever violates division (E) above is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.51)
Cross-reference:
   Personating an officer (fraud offense), see §
131.17
§ 132.14 SAFETY OF CROWDS ATTENDING LIVE ENTERTAINMENT PERFORMANCES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CONCERT. A musical performance of which the primary component is a
presentation by persons singing or playing musical instruments, that is
intended by its sponsors mainly, but not necessarily exclusively, for the
listening enjoyment of the audience, and that is held in a facility. The term
does not include any performance in which music is a part of the presentation
and the primary component of which is acting, dancing, a motion picture, a
demonstration of skills or talent other than singing or playing an instrument,
an athletic event, an exhibition or a speech.
      FACILITY. Any structure that has a roof or partial roof and that has
walls that wholly surround the area on all sides, including but not limited to
a stadium, hall, arena, armory, auditorium, ballroom, exhibition hall,
convention center or music hall.
      LIVE ENTERTAINMENT PERFORMANCE. Means any live speech; any live musical
performance, including a concert; any live dramatic performance; any live
variety show; and any other live performance with respect to which the primary
intent of the audience can be construed to be viewing the performers. The term
does not include any form of entertainment with respect to which the person
purchasing a ticket routinely participates in amusements as well as views
performers.
      PERSON. Includes, in addition to an individual or entity specified in
R.C. § 1.59(C), any governmental entity.
      RESTRICTED ENTERTAINMENT AREA. Any wholly or partially enclosed area,
whether indoors or outdoors, that has limited access through established
entrances or established turnstiles or similar devices.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall sell, offer to sell or offer in return for a
donation, any ticket that is not numbered and that does not correspond to a
specific seat for admission to either of the following:
         (a)   A live entertainment performance that is not exempted under
division (D) below, that is held in a restricted entertainment area, and for
which more than 8,000 tickets are offered to the public; and
         (b)   A concert that is not exempted under division (D) below and for
which more than 3,000 tickets are offered to the public.
      (2)   No person shall advertise any live entertainment performance as
described in division (B)(1)(a) above or any concert as described in division
(B)(1)(b) above, unless the advertisement contains the words “Reserved Seats
Only”.
   (C)   Unless exempted by division (D)(1) below, no person who owns or
operates any restricted entertainment area shall fail to open, maintain and
properly staff at least the number of entrances designated under division (E)
below for a minimum of 90 minutes prior to the scheduled start of any live
entertainment performance that is held in the restricted entertainment area and
for which more than 3,000 tickets are sold, offered for sale or offered in
return for a donation.
   (D)   (1)   A live entertainment performance, other than a concert, is
exempted from the provisions of divisions (B) and (C) above if both of the
following apply:
         (a)   The restricted entertainment area in which the performance is
held has at least eight entrances or, if both entrances and separate admission
turnstiles or similar devices are used, has at least eight turnstiles or
similar devices; and
         (b)   The eight entrances or, if applicable, the eight turnstiles or
similar devices, are opened, maintained and properly staffed at least one hour
prior to the scheduled start of the performance.
      (2)   (a)   The officer responsible for public safety in the municipality
may, upon application of the sponsor of a concert covered by division (B)
above, exempt the concert from the provisions of that division if such officer
finds that the health, safety and welfare of the participants and spectators
would not be substantially affected by failure to comply with the provisions of
that division. In determining whether to grant an exemption, the officer shall
consider the following factors: the size and design of the facility in which
the concert is scheduled; the size, age and anticipated conduct of the crowd
expected to attend the concert; and the ability of the sponsor to manage and
control the expected crowd. If the sponsor of any concert desires to obtain an
exemption under this division, the sponsor shall apply to the appropriate
official on a form prescribed by that official. The official shall issue an
order that grants or denies the exemption within five days after receipt of the
application. The sponsor may appeal any order that denies an exemption to the
Court of Common Pleas of the county in which the facility is located.
         (b)   If an official grants an exemption under division (D)(2)(a)
above, the official shall designate an on-duty law enforcement officer to be
present at the concert. The designated officer has authority to issue orders to
all security personnel at the concert to protect the health, safety and welfare
of the participants and spectators.
      (3)   Notwithstanding division (D)(2) above, in the case of a concert
held in a facility located on the campus of an educational institution covered
by R.C. § 3345.04, a state university law enforcement officer appointed
pursuant to R.C. §§ 3345.04 and 3345.21 shall do both of the following:
         (a)   Exercise the authority to grant exemptions provided by division
(D)(2)(a) above in lieu of an official designated in that division;
         (b)   If the officer grants an exemption under division (D)(3)(a)
above, designate an on-duty state university law enforcement officer to be
present at the concert. The designated officer has authority to issue orders to
all security personnel at the concert to protect the health, safety and welfare
of the participants and spectators.
   (E)   (1)   Unless a live entertainment performance is exempted by division
(D)(1) above, the officer responsible for public safety within the municipality
shall designate, for purposes of division (C) above, the minimum number of
entrances required to be opened, maintained and staffed at each live
entertainment performance so as to permit crowd control and reduce congestion
at the entrances. The designation shall be based on such factors as the size
and nature of the crowd expected to attend the live entertainment performance,
the length of time prior to the live entertainment performance that crowds are
expected to congregate at the entrances and the amount of security provided at
the restricted entertainment area.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (E)(1) above, a state university law
enforcement officer appointed pursuant to R.C. §§ 3345.04 and 3345.21 shall
designate the number of entrances required to be opened, maintained and staffed
in the case of a live entertainment performance that is held at a restricted
entertainment area located on the campus of an educational institution covered
by R.C. § 3345.04.
   (F)   No person shall enter into any contract for a live entertainment
performance that does not permit or require compliance with this section.
   (G)   (1)   This section does not apply to a live entertainment performance
held in a restricted entertainment area if one admission ticket entitles the
holder to view or participate in three or more different games, rides,
activities or live entertainment performances occurring simultaneously at
different sites within the restricted entertainment area and if the initial
admittance entrance to the restricted entertainment area, for which the ticket
is required, is separate from the entrance to any specific live entertainment
performance and an additional ticket is not required for admission to the
particular live entertainment performance.
      (2)   This section does not apply to a symphony orchestra performance, a
ballet performance, horse races, dances or fairs.
   (H)   This section does not prohibit the legislative authority from imposing
additional requirements, not in conflict with the section, for the promotion or
holding of live entertainment performances.
   (I)   Whoever violates division (B), (C) or (F) above is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If any individual suffers physical harm to the
individual’s person as a result of a violation of this section, the sentencing
court shall consider this factor in favor of imposing a term of imprisonment
upon the offender.
(R.C. § 2917.40)
§ 132.15 MISCONDUCT INVOLVING A PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM.
   (A)   As used in this section, PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM means a county
transit system operated in accordance with R.C. §§ 306.01 through 306.13, a
regional transit authority operated in accordance with R.C. §§ 306.30 through
306.71, or a regional transit commission operated in accordance with R.C. §§
306.80 through 306.90.
   (B)   No person shall evade the payment of the known fares of a public
transportation system.
   (C)   No person shall alter any transfer, pass, ticket or token of a public
transportation system with the purpose of evading the payment of fares or of
defrauding the system.
   (D)   No person shall do any of the following while in any facility or on
any vehicle of a public transportation system:
      (1)   Play sound equipment without the proper use of a private earphone;
      (2)   Smoke, eat or drink in any area where the activity is clearly
marked as being prohibited; or
      (3)   Expectorate upon a person, facility or vehicle.
   (E)   No person shall write, deface, draw or otherwise mark on any facility
or vehicle of a public transportation system.
   (F)   No person shall fail to comply with a lawful order of a public
transportation system police officer, and no person shall resist, obstruct or
abuse a public transportation police officer in the performance of the
officer’s duties.
   (G)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of
misconduct involving a public transportation system.
      (1)   A violation of division (B), (C) or (F) above is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
      (2)   A violation of division (D) above is a minor misdemeanor on a first
offense. If a person previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a
violation of any division of this section or of a municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to any division of this section, a violation of
division (D) above is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (3)   A violation of division (E) above is a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
   (H)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 75% of each fine paid to
satisfy a sentence imposed for a violation of any of the provisions of this
section shall be deposited into the Treasury of the County and 25% shall be
deposited with the county transit board, regional transit authority or regional
transit commission that operates the public transportation system involved in
the violation, unless the Board of County Commissioners operates the public
transportation system, in which case 100% of each fine shall be deposited into
the Treasury of the County.
(R.C. § 2917.41)
CHAPTER 133: SEX OFFENSES
Section
   
133.01   Definitions
   
133.02   Corruption of a minor
   
133.03   Sexual imposition
   
133.04   Importuning
   
133.05   Voyeurism
   
133.06   Public indecency
   
133.07   Procuring
   
133.08   Soliciting
   
133.09   Prostitution
   
133.10   Disseminating matter harmful to juveniles
   
133.11   Polygraph examinations for victims; restrictions on use
   
133.12   Displaying matter harmful to juveniles
   
133.13   Deception to obtain matter harmful to juveniles
   
133.14   Rules of evidence
   
133.15   Declaratory judgment
   
133.16   Injunction; abatement of nuisance
   
133.17   Unlawful operation of viewing booths depicting sexual conduct
   
133.18   Juveniles on the premises of adult entertainment establishments
prohibited
   
133.19   Sexually oriented businesses; illegal operation and activity
   
133.20   Unlawful advertising of massage
   
133.21   Non-consensual dissemination of private sexual images
 
   
133.99   Penalty; sentencing for sexually oriented offenses; sexual predators;
registration
Statutory reference:
   Assistance to victims of sexual assault, see R.C. §§ 2907.28 et seq.
   Child victim, disposition of, see R.C. § 2945.481
   Suppression of information at trial, see R.C. § 2907.11
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 133.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   HARMFUL TO JUVENILES. That quality of any material or performance describing
or representing nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement or sado-masochistic
abuse in any form to which all of the following apply:
      (1)   The material or performance, when considered as a whole, appeals to
the prurient interest of juveniles in sex;
      (2)   The material or performance is patently offensive to prevailing
standards in the adult community as a whole with respect to what is suitable
for juveniles; and
      (3)   The material or performance, when considered as a whole, lacks
serious literary, artistic, political and scientific value for juveniles.
   JUVENILE. Any unmarried person under 18 years of age.
   MATERIAL. Any book, magazine, newspaper, pamphlet, poster, print, picture,
figure, image, description, motion picture film, video cassette, laser disc,
phonograph record, cassette tape, compact disc or other tangible thing capable
of arousing interest through sight, sound or touch and includes an image or
text appearing on a computer monitor, television screen, liquid crystal display
or similar display device or an image or text recorded on a computer hard disk,
computer floppy disk, compact disk, magnetic tape or similar data storage
device.
   MENTAL HEALTH CLIENT OR PATIENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.51.
   MENTAL HEALTH PROFESSIONAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.115.
   MINOR. A person under the age of 18.
   NUDITY. The showing, representation, or depiction of human male or female
genitals, pubic area, or buttocks with less than a full, opaque covering, or of
a female breast with less than a full, opaque covering of any portion thereof
below the top of the nipple, or of covered male genitals in a discernibly
turgid state.
   OBSCENE. When considered as a whole, and judged with reference to ordinary
adults or, if it is designed for sexual deviates or other specially susceptible
group, judged with reference to that group, any material or performance is
OBSCENE if any of the following apply.
      (1)   Its dominant appeal is to prurient interest.
      (2)   Its dominant tendency is to arouse lust by displaying or depicting
sexual activity, masturbation, sexual excitement or nudity in a way that tends
to represent human beings as mere objects of sexual appetite.
      (3)   Its dominant tendency is to arouse lust by displaying or depicting
bestiality or extreme or bizarre violence, cruelty or brutality.
      (4)   Its dominant tendency is to appeal to scatological interest by
displaying or depicting human bodily functions of elimination in a way that
inspires disgust or revulsion in persons with ordinary sensibilities, without
serving any genuine scientific, educational, sociological, moral or artistic
purpose.
      (5)   It contains a series of displays or descriptions of sexual
activity, masturbation, sexual excitement, nudity, bestiality, extreme or
bizarre violence, cruelty or brutality, or human bodily functions of
elimination, the cumulative effect of which is a dominant tendency to appeal to
prurient or scatological interest, when the appeal to such an interest is
primarily for its own sake or for commercial exploitation, rather than
primarily for a genuine scientific, educational, sociological, moral or
artistic purpose.
   PERFORMANCE. Any motion picture, preview, trailer, play, show, skit, dance
or other exhibition performed before an audience.
   PROSTITUTE. A male or female who promiscuously engages in sexual activity
for hire, regardless of whether the hire is paid to the prostitute or to
another.
   SADO-MASOCHISTIC ABUSE. Flagellation or torture by or upon a person or the
condition of being fettered, bound or otherwise physically restrained.
   SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Sexual conduct or sexual contact, or both.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT. Vaginal intercourse between a male and female; anal
intercourse, fellatio and cunnilingus between persons regardless of sex; and,
without privilege to do so, the insertion, however slight, of any part of the
body or any instrument, apparatus or other object into the vaginal or anal
opening of another. Penetration, however slight, is sufficient to complete
vaginal or anal intercourse.
   SEXUAL CONTACT. Any touching of an erogenous zone of another, including,
without limitation, the thigh, genitals, buttock, pubic region or, if the
person is a female, a breast, for the purpose of sexually arousing or
gratifying either person.
   SEXUAL EXCITEMENT. The condition of human male or female genitals when in a
state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
   SPOUSE. A person married to an offender at the time of an alleged offense,
except that such person shall not be considered the spouse when any of the
following apply:
      (1)   When the parties have entered into a written separation agreement
pursuant to R.C. § 3103.06;
      (2)   When an action is pending between the parties for annulment,
divorce, dissolution of marriage, or legal separation; and
      (3)   In the case of an action for legal separation, after the effective
date of the judgment for legal separation.
(R.C. § 2907.01) (Prior Code, § 9.04.01)
§ 133.02 CORRUPTION OF A MINOR.
   (A)   No person who is 18 years of age or older shall engage in sexual
conduct with another who is not the spouse of the offender, when the offender
knows the other person is 13 years of age or older but less than 16 years of
age, or the offender is reckless in that regard.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful sexual conduct
with a minor.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2) below, unlawful
sexual conduct with a minor is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(3) below, if the
offender is less than four years older than the other person, unlawful sexual
conduct with a minor is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of R.C. §§ 2907.02, 2907.03 or 2907.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, or a violation of former R.C. § 2907.12, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, unlawful sexual conduct with a
minor is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.04) (Prior Code, § 9.04.02)
§ 133.03 SEXUAL IMPOSITION.
   (A)   No person shall have sexual contact with another, not the spouse of
the offender; cause another, not the spouse of the offender, to have sexual
contact with the offender; or cause two or more other persons to have sexual
contact when any of the following applies:
      (1)   The offender knows that the sexual contact is offensive to the
other person, or one of the other persons, or is reckless in that regard;
      (2)   The offender knows that the other person’s, or one of the other
person’s ability to appraise the nature of or control the offender’s or
touching person’s conduct is substantially impaired;
      (3)   The offender knows that the other person, or one of the other
persons, submits because of being unaware of the sexual contact;
      (4)   The other person, or one of the other persons, is 13 years of age
or older but less than 16 years of age, whether or not the offender knows the
age of the person, and the offender is at least 18 years of age and four or
more years older than the other person; or
      (5)   The offender is a mental health professional, the other person or
one of the other persons is a mental health client or patient of the offender,
and the offender induces the other person who is the client or patient to
submit by falsely representing to the other person who is the client or patient
that the sexual contact is necessary for mental health treatment purposes.
   (B)   No person shall be convicted of a violation of this section solely
upon the victim’s testimony unsupported by other evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of sexual imposition, a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section, R.C. §§ 2907.02, 2907.03,
2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.06, former R.C. § 2907.12 or a substantially equivalent
state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of this section is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to three or more violations of this section, R.C. §§ 2907.02,
2907.03, 2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.06, former R.C. § 2907.12 or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any combination of those
sections, a violation of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree and,
notwithstanding the range of jail terms prescribed in R.C. § 2929.24, the court
may impose on the offender a definite jail term of not more than one year.
(R.C. § 2907.06) (Prior Code, § 9.04.03)
Statutory reference:
   Gross sexual imposition, felony, see R.C. § 2907.05
   Notice to licensing board or agency upon indictment, conviction or guilty
plea of mental health professional, see R.C. §§ 2907.17 and 2907.18
§ 133.04 IMPORTUNING.
   (A)   No person shall solicit a person who is less than thirteen years of
age to engage in sexual activity with the offender, whether or not the offender
knows the age of such person.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall solicit another, not the spouse of the offender,
to engage in sexual conduct with the offender, when the offender is 18 years of
age or older and four or more years older than the other person, and the other
person is 13 years of age or older but less than 16 years of age, whether or
not the offender knows the age of the other person.
      (2)   No person shall solicit another, not the spouse of the offender, to
engage in sexual conduct with the offender, when the offender is 18 years of
age or older and four or more years older than the other person, the other
person is 16 or 17 years of age and a victim of a violation of R.C. § 2905.32,
and the offender knows or has reckless disregard of the age of the other
person.
   (C)   No person shall solicit another by means of a telecommunications
device, as defined in R.C. § 2913.01, to engage in sexual activity with the
offender when the offender is 18 years of age or older and either of the
following applies:
      (1)   The other person is less than 13 years of age, and the offender
knows that the other person is less than 13 years of age or is reckless in that
regard; and
      (2)   The other person is a law enforcement officer posing as a person
who is less than 13 years of age, and the offender believes that the other
person is less than 13 years of age or is reckless in that regard.
   (D)   No person shall solicit another by means of a telecommunications
device, as defined in R.C. § 2913.01, to engage in sexual activity with the
offender when the offender is 18 years of age or older and either of the
following applies:
      (1)   The other person is 13 years of age or older but less than 16 years
of age, the offender knows that the other person is 13 years of age or older
but less than 16 years of age or is reckless in that regard and the offender is
four or more years older than the other person; and
      (2)   The other person is a law enforcement officer posing as a person
who is 13 years of age or older but less than 16 years of age, the offender
believes that the other person is 13 years of age or older but less than 16
years of age or is reckless in that regard, and the offender is four or more
years older than the age the law enforcement officer assumes in posing as the
person who is 13 years of age or older but less than 16 years of age.
   (E)   Divisions (C) and (D) above apply to any solicitation that is
contained in a transmission via a telecommunications device that either
originates in this state or is received in this state.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of importuning.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of
division (A) or (C) above is a felony of the third degree on a first offense,
and, notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.13(C), there is a presumption that a prison
term shall be imposed as described in R.C. § 2929.13(D). If the offender
previously has been convicted of a sexually oriented offense or a child-victim
oriented offense, a violation of division (A) or (C) above is a felony of the
second degree, and the court shall impose upon the offender as a mandatory
prison term one of the definite prison terms prescribed in R.C. § 2929.14(A)(2)
(b) for a felony of the second degree, except that if the violation is
committed on or after the effective date of this amendment, the court shall
impose as the minimum prison term for the offense a mandatory prison term that
is one of the minimum terms prescribed in division (A)(2)(a) above for a felony
of the second degree.
      (3)   A violation of division (B) or (D) above is a felony of the fifth
degree on a first offense, and, notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.13(B), there is a
presumption that a prison term shall be imposed as described in R.C. § 2929.13
(D). If the offender previously has been convicted of a sexually oriented
offense or a child-victim oriented offense, a violation of division (B) or (D)
above is a felony of the fourth degree, and the court shall impose upon the
offender as a mandatory prison term one of the prison terms prescribed in R.C.
§ 2929.14 for a felony of the fourth degree that is not less than 12 months in
duration.
(R.C. § 2907.07) (Prior Code, § 9.04.04)
§ 133.05 VOYEURISM.
   (A)   No person, for the purpose of sexually arousing or gratifying himself
or herself, shall commit trespass or otherwise surreptitiously invade the
privacy of another, to spy or eavesdrop upon another.
   (B)   No person, for the purpose of sexually arousing or gratifying himself
or herself, shall commit trespass or otherwise surreptitiously invade the
privacy of another to videotape, film, photograph or otherwise record the other
person in a state of nudity.
   (C)   No person, for the purpose of sexually arousing or gratifying himself
or herself, shall commit trespass or otherwise surreptitiously invade the
privacy of another to videotape, film, photograph, otherwise record or spy or
eavesdrop upon the other person in a state of nudity if the other person is a
minor.
   (D)   No person shall secretly or surreptitiously videotape, film,
photograph or otherwise record another person under or through the clothing
being worn by that person for the purpose of viewing the body of, or the
undergarments worn by, that other person.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of voyeurism.
      (1)   A violation of division (A) above is a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
      (2)   A violation of division (B) above is a misdemeanor of the second
degree.
      (3)   A violation of division (D) above is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (4)   A violation of division (C) above is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.08) (Prior Code, § 9.04.05)
§ 133.06 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following, under
circumstances in which the person’s conduct is likely to be viewed by and
affront others who are in the person’s physical proximity and who are not
members of the person’s household:
      (1)   Expose the persons’s private parts;
      (2)   Engage in sexual conduct or masturbation; or
      (3)   Engage in conduct that to an ordinary observer would appear to be
sexual conduct or masturbation.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following, under circumstances
in which the person’s conduct is likely to be viewed by and affront another
person who is in the person’s physical proximity, who is a minor, and who is
not the spouse of the offender:
      (1)   Engage in masturbation;
      (2)   Engage in sexual conduct;
      (3)   Engage in conduct that to an ordinary observer would appear to be
sexual conduct or masturbation; or
      (4)   Expose the person’s private parts with the purpose of personal
sexual arousal or gratification or to lure the minor into sexual activity.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of public indecency and
shall be punished as provided in divisions (C)(2), (C)(3), (C)(4) and (C)(5)
below.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(2), a violation
of division (A)(1) above is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of this
section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (A)(1) above is a misdemeanor of the third degree or, if
any person who was likely to view and be affronted by the offender’s conduct
was a minor, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of
division (A)(1) above is a misdemeanor of the second degree or, if any person
who was likely to view and be affronted by the offender’s conduct was a minor,
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of
division (A)(1) above is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if any person
who was likely to view and be affronted by the offender’s conduct was a minor,
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(3), a violation
of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) above is a misdemeanor of the third degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of
this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) above is a misdemeanor of the second
degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by the
offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more
violations of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, a violation of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) above is a misdemeanor of
the first degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by
the offender’s conduct was a minor, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(4), a violation
of division (B)(1), (B)(2) or (B)(3) above is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to
one violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a violation of division (B)(1), (B)(2) or (B)(3) above is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of
division (B)(1), (B)(2) or (B)(3) above is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(5), a violation
of division (B)(4) above is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation of this
section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (B)(4) above is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (D)   (1)   If either of the following applies, the court may determine at
the time of sentencing whether to classify the offender as a tier I sex
offender/child-victim offender for a violation of division (B)(4) above:
         (a)   The offender is less than ten years older than the other person;
or
         (b)   The offender is ten or more years older than the other person
and the offender has not previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any
violation of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance.
      (2)   If the offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (B)(4) above, is ten or more years older than the other person, and
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation of this
section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, the
court shall issue an order at the time of sentencing that classifies the
offender as a tier I sex offender/child-victim offender subject to registration
under R.C. §§ 2950.04, 2950.041, 2950.05 and 2950.06.
(R.C. § 2907.09)
   (E)   A mother is entitled to breast-feed her baby in any location of a
place of public accommodation, as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, wherein the mother
otherwise is permitted.
(R.C. § 3781.55) (Prior Code, § 9.04.06)
Statutory reference:
   Bail considerations for persons charged, see R.C. § 2907.41
§ 133.07 PROCURING.
   (A)   No person, knowingly and for gain, shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Entice or solicit another to patronize a prostitute or brothel; or
      (2)   Procure a prostitute for another to patronize, or take or direct
another at the other’s request to any place for the purpose of patronizing a
prostitute.
   (B)   No person, having authority or responsibility over the use of
premises, shall knowingly permit the premises to be used for the purpose of
engaging in sexual activity for hire.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) or (B) above is guilty of procuring.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, procuring is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the prostitute who is procured, patronized or otherwise
involved in a violation of division (A)(2) above is under 18 years of age at
the time of the violation, regardless of whether the offender who violates
division (A)(2) above knows the prostitute’s age, or if a prostitute who
engages in sexual activity for hire in premises used in violation of division
(B) above is under 18 years of age at the time of the violation, regardless of
whether the offender who violates division (B) above knows the prostitute’s
age, procuring is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.23)
   (D)   No person shall recklessly induce, entice or procure another to engage
in sexual activity for hire in exchange for the person giving anything of value
to the other person.
   (E)   As used in division (D) above, SEXUAL ACTIVITY FOR HIRE means an
implicit or explicit agreement to provide sexual activity in exchange for
anything of value paid to the person engaging in such sexual activity, to any
person trafficking that person or to any person associated with either such
person.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (D) above is guilty of engaging in
prostitution, a misdemeanor of the first degree. In sentencing the offender
under this division, the court shall require the offender to attend an
education or treatment program aimed at preventing persons from inducing,
enticing or procuring another to engage in sexual activity for hire in exchange
for the person giving anything of value to the other person and,
notwithstanding the fine specified in R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a) for a misdemeanor
of the first degree, the court may impose upon the offender a fine of not more
than $1,500.
(R.C. § 2907.231) (Prior Code, § 9.04.07)
§ 133.08 SOLICITING.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly solicit another to engage in sexual activity
for hire in exchange for the person receiving anything of value from the other
person.
   (B)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in conduct in violation of division (A) above.
   (C)   As used in division (A) above, SEXUAL ACTIVITY FOR HIRE means an
implicit or explicit agreement to provide sexual activity in exchange for
anything of value paid to the person engaging in such sexual activity, to any
person trafficking that person or to any person associated with either such
person.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) above is guilty of soliciting.
Soliciting is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) above is guilty of engaging in
solicitation after a positive HIV test, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.24)
   (E)   No person, with purpose to solicit another to engage in sexual
activity for hire and while in or near a public place, shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Beckon to, stop or attempt to stop another;
      (2)   Engage or attempt to engage another in conversation;
      (3)   Stop or attempt to stop the operator of a vehicle or approach a
stationary vehicle;
      (4)   If the offender is the operator of or a passenger in a vehicle,
stop, attempt to stop, beckon to, attempt to beckon to or entice another to
approach or enter the vehicle of which the offender is the operator or in which
the offender is the passenger; and
      (5)   Interfere with the free passage of another.
   (F)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in conduct in violation of division (E) above.
   (G)   As used in division (E) above:
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any of the following:
         (a)   A street, road, highway, thoroughfare, bikeway, walkway,
sidewalk, bridge, alley, alleyway, plaza, park, driveway, parking lot or
transportation facility;
         (b)   A doorway or entrance way to a building that fronts on a place
described in division (a) above; and
         (c)   A place not described in division (a) or (b) above that is open
to the public.
      VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   (H)   Whoever violates division (E) above is guilty of loitering to engage
in solicitation, a misdemeanor of the third degree. Whoever violates division
(F) above is guilty of loitering to engage in solicitation after a positive HIV
test, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.241) (Prior Code, § 9.04.08)
Statutory reference:
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 133.09 PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   No person shall engage in sexual activity for hire.
   (B)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in sexual activity for hire.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) above is guilty of prostitution, a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) above is guilty of engaging in
prostitution after a positive HIV test, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.25) (Prior Code, § 9.04.09)
Statutory reference:
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 133.10 DISSEMINATING MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (A)   No person, with knowledge of its character or content, shall
recklessly do any of following:
      (1)   Directly sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit,
rent or present to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile or a group of law enforcement officers posing as juveniles
any material or performance that is obscene or harmful to juveniles;
      (2)   Directly offer or agree to sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate,
provide, exhibit, rent or present to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law
enforcement officer posing as a juvenile or a group of law enforcement officers
posing as juveniles any material or performance that is obscene or harmful to
juveniles; and
      (3)   While in the physical proximity of the juvenile or law enforcement
officer posing as a juvenile, allow any juvenile or law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile to review or peruse any material or view any live
performance that is harmful to juveniles.
   (B)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under this section
that involves material or a performance that is harmful to juveniles but not
obscene:
      (1)   The defendant is the parent, guardian or spouse of the juvenile
involved;
      (2)   The juvenile involved, at the time of the conduct in question, was
accompanied by his or her parent or guardian who, with knowledge of its
character, consented to the material or performance being furnished or
presented to the juvenile; and
      (3)   The juvenile exhibited to the defendant or his or her agent or
employee a draft card, driver’s license, birth record, marriage license or
other official or apparently official document purporting to show that the
juvenile was 18 years of age or over or married, and the person to whom the
document was exhibited did not otherwise have reasonable cause to believe that
the juvenile was under the age of 18 and unmarried.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section, involving
material or a performance that is obscene or harmful to juveniles, that the
material or performance was furnished or presented for a bona fide medical,
scientific, educational, governmental, judicial or other proper purpose, by a
physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist, teacher, librarian, clergy,
prosecutor, judge or other proper person. Except as provided in division (B)(3)
above, mistake of age is not a defense to a charge under this section.
   (D)   (1)   A person directly sells, delivers, furnishes, disseminates,
provides, exhibits, rents or presents or directly offers or agrees to sell,
deliver, furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit, rent or present material or a
performance to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile or a group of law enforcement officers posing as juveniles
in violation of this section by means of an electronic method of remotely
transmitting information if the person knows or has reason to believe that the
person receiving the information is a juvenile or the group of persons
receiving the information are juveniles.
      (2)   A person remotely transmitting information by means of a method of
mass distribution does not directly sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate,
provide, exhibit, rent or present or directly offer or agree to sell, deliver,
furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit, rent or present the material or
performance in question to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement
officer posing as a juvenile or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles in violation of this section if either of the following applies:
         (a)   The person has inadequate information to know or have reason to
believe that a particular recipient of the information or offer is a juvenile;
and
         (b)   The method of mass distribution does not provide the person the
ability to prevent a particular recipient from receiving the information.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disseminating matter
harmful to juveniles. If the material or performance involved is harmful to
juveniles except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the material or performance
involved is obscene, violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.31)
   (F)   Presumptions, notice and defense.
      (1)   An owner or manager, or agent or employee of an owner or manager,
of a bookstore, newsstand, theater or other commercial establishment engaged in
selling material or exhibiting performances, who, in the course of business
does any of the acts prohibited by this section is presumed to have knowledge
of the character of the material or performance involved if the owner, manager
or agent or employee of the owner or manager has actual notice of the nature of
such material or performance, whether or not the owner, manager or agent or
employee of the owner or manager has precise knowledge of its contents.
      (2)   Without limitation on the manner in which such notice may be given,
actual notice of the character of material or a performance may be given in
writing by the chief legal officer of the municipality. Such notice, regardless
of the manner in which it is given, shall identify the sender, identify the
material or performance involved, state whether it is obscene or harmful to
juveniles and bear the date of such notice.
      (3)   This §
133.10 does not apply to a motion picture operator or projectionist acting
within the scope of employment as an employee of the owner or manager of the
theater or other place for the showing of motion pictures to the general
public, and having no managerial responsibility or financial interest in the
operator’s or projectionist’s place of employment, other than wages.
      (4)   (a)   The provisions of §§
133.10,
133.11 and
133.12(A) do not apply to a person solely because the person provided access or
connection to or from an electronic method of remotely transferring information
not under that person’s control, including having provided capabilities that
are incidental to providing access or connection to or from the electronic
method of remotely transferring the information, and that do not include the
creation of the content of the material that is the subject of the access or
connection.
         (b)   Division (F)(4)(a) above does not apply to a person who
conspires with an entity actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of §§
133.10,
133.11 and
133.12 or who knowingly advertises the availability of material of that nature.
         (c)   Division (F)(4)(a) above does not apply to a person who provides
access or connection to an electronic method of remotely transferring
information that is engaged in the violation of §§
133.10,
133.11 and
133.12 and that contain content that person has selected and introduced into
the electronic method of remotely transferring information or content over
which that person exercises editorial control.
      (5)   An employer is not guilty of a violation of §§
133.10,
133.11 and
133.12 based on the actions of an employee or agent of the employer unless the
employee’s or agent’s conduct is within the scope of the employee’s or agent’s
employment or agency, and the employer does either of the following.
         (a)   With knowledge of the employee’s or agent’s conduct, the
employer authorizes or ratifies the conduct.
         (b)   The employer recklessly disregards the employee’s or agent’s
conduct.
      (6)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under §§
133.10 or
133.11 as the section applies to an image transmitted through the internet or
other electronic method of remotely transmitting information that the person
charged with violating the section has taken, in good faith, reasonable,
effective and appropriate actions under the circumstances to restrict or
prevent access by juveniles to material that is harmful to juveniles, including
any method that is feasible under available technology.
(R.C. § 2907.35) (Prior Code, § 9.04.10)
§ 133.11 POLYGRAPH EXAMINATIONS FOR VICTIMS; RESTRICTIONS ON USE.
   (A)   A peace officer, prosecutor or other public official shall not ask or
require a victim of an alleged sex offense to submit to a polygraph examination
as a condition for proceeding with the investigation of the alleged sex
offense. The refusal of the victim of an alleged sex offense to submit to a
polygraph examination shall not prevent the investigation of the alleged sex
offense, the filing of criminal charges with respect to the alleged sex
offense, or the prosecution of the alleged perpetrator of the alleged sex
offense.
   (B)   As used in this section:
      PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.51.
      POLYGRAPH EXAMINATION. Any mechanical or electrical instrument or device
of any type used or allegedly used to examine, test or question an individual
for the purpose of determining the individual’s truthfulness.
      PROSECUTION. The prosecution of criminal charges in a criminal
prosecution or the prosecution of a delinquent child complaint in a delinquency
proceeding.
      PROSECUTOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
      PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 117.01.
      SEX OFFENSE. A violation of any provision of §§ 133.02 to 133.05 or R.C.
§§ 2907.02 to 2907.09.
(R.C. § 2907.10)
§ 133.12 DISPLAYING MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (A)   No person who has custody, control or supervision of a commercial
establishment, with knowledge of the character or content of the material
involved, shall display at the establishment any material that is harmful to
juveniles and that is open to view by juveniles as part of the invited general
public.
   (B)   It is not a violation of division (A) above if the material in
question is displayed by placing it behind “blinder racks” or similar devices
that cover at least the lower two-thirds of the material, if the material in
question is wrapped or placed behind the counter, or if the material in
question otherwise is covered or located so that the portion that is harmful to
juveniles is not open to the view of juveniles.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of displaying matter harmful
to juveniles, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each day during which the
offender is in violation of this section constitutes a separate offense.
(R.C. § 2907.311)
Cross-reference:
   Presumptions, notice and defense, see §
133.10(F)
§ 133.13 DECEPTION TO OBTAIN MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (A)   No person, for the purpose of enabling a juvenile to obtain any
material or gain admission to any performance which is harmful to juveniles,
shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Falsely represent that he or she is the parent, guardian or spouse
of the juvenile; or
      (2)   Furnish the juvenile with any identification or document purporting
to show that the juvenile is 18 years of age or over or married.
   (B)   No juvenile, for the purpose of obtaining any material or gaining
admission to any performance which is harmful to juveniles, shall do either of
the following:
      (1)   Falsely represent that he or she is 18 years of age or over or
married; or
      (2)   Exhibit any identification or document purporting to show that he
or she is 18 years of age or over or married.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of deception to obtain
matter harmful to juveniles, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (2)   A juvenile who violates division (B) above shall be adjudged an
unruly child, with the disposition of the case as may be appropriate under R.C.
Chapter 2151.
(R.C. § 2907.33)
Cross-reference:
   Presumptions, notice and defense, see §
133.10(F)
Statutory reference:
   Juvenile Court, see R.C. Chapter 2151
§ 133.14 RULES OF EVIDENCE.
   (A)   In any case in which it is necessary to prove that a place is a
brothel, evidence as to the reputation of such place and as to the reputation
of the persons who inhabit or frequent it is admissible on the question of
whether such place is or is not a brothel.
   (B)   In any case in which it is necessary to prove that a person is a
prostitute, evidence as to the reputation of such person is admissible on the
question of whether such person is or is not a prostitute.
   (C)   In any prosecution for a violation of §§
133.07 through
133.09, proof of a prior conviction of the accused of any such offense or
substantially equivalent offense is admissible in support of the charge.
   (D)   The prohibition contained in R.C. § 2317.02(D) against testimony by a
husband or wife concerning communications between them does not apply, and the
accused’s spouse may testify concerning any such communication in any of the
following cases:
      (1)   When the husband or wife is charged with a violation of §
133.07 and the spouse testifying was the prostitute involved in the offense or
the person who used the offender’s premises to engage in sexual activity for
hire; or
      (2)   When the husband or wife is charged with a violation of §§
133.08(A) or
133.09.
(R.C. § 2907.26)
§ 133.15 DECLARATORY JUDGMENT.
   (A)   Without limitation on the persons otherwise entitled to bring an
action for a declaratory judgment pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2721, involving the
same issue, the following persons have standing to bring a declaratory judgment
action to determine whether particular materials or performances are obscene or
harmful to juveniles:
      (1)   The chief legal officer of the municipality if and when there is
reasonable cause to believe that R.C. § 2907.31 or R.C. § 2907.32, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, is being or is about to be
violated;
      (2)   Any person who, pursuant to R.C. § 2907.35(B) or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, has received notice in writing from the chief
legal officer stating that particular materials or performances are obscene or
harmful to juveniles.
   (B)   Any party to an action for a declaratory judgment pursuant to division
(A) above is entitled, upon the party’s request, to trial on the merits within
five days after joinder of the issues, and the court shall render judgment
within five days after trial is concluded.
   (C)   An action for a declaratory judgement pursuant to division (A) above
shall not be brought during the pendency of any civil action or criminal
prosecution when the character of the particular materials or performances
involved is at issue in the pending case, and either of the following applies:
      (1)   Either of the parties to the action for a declaratory judgment is a
party to the pending case; or
      (2)   A judgment in the pending case will necessarily constitute res
judicata as to the character of the materials or performances involved.
   (D)   A civil action or criminal prosecution in which the character of
particular materials or performances is at issue, brought during the pendency
of an action for a declaratory judgment involving the same issue, shall be
stayed during the pendency of the action for a declaratory judgment.
   (E)   The fact that a violation of R.C. § 2907.31 or R.C. § 2907.32, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, occurs prior to a judicial
determination of the character of the material or performance involved in the
violation does not relieve the offender of criminal liability for the
violation, even though prosecution may be stayed pending the judicial
determination.
(R.C. § 2907.36)
§ 133.16 INJUNCTION; ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   Where it appears that R.C. § 2907.31 or R.C. § 2907.32, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, is being or is about to be
violated, the chief legal officer of the municipality may bring an action to
enjoin the violation. The defendant, upon his or her request, is entitled to
trial on the merits within five days after the joinder of the issues, and the
court shall render judgment within five days after the trial is concluded.
   (B)   Premises used or occupied for repeated violations of R.C. § 2907.31 or
R.C. § 2907.32, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, constitute a
nuisance subject to abatement pursuant to R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2907.37)
Statutory reference:
   Disseminating matter harmful to juveniles, felony, see R.C. § 2907.31
   Pandering obscenity, felony, see R.C. § 2907.32
§ 133.17 UNLAWFUL OPERATION OF VIEWING BOOTHS DEPICTING SEXUAL CONDUCT.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT. An entity that is open to the public and to
which either of the following applies.
         (a)   It has a substantial or significant portion of its stock in
trade of the sale, rental or viewing of visual materials or performances
depicting sexual conduct.
         (b)   It has as a principal business purpose the sale, rental or
viewing of visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct.
      VISUAL MATERIALS OR PERFORMANCES. Films, videos, CD-ROM discs, streaming
video or other motion pictures.
   (B)   No person who has custody, control or supervision of a commercial
establishment, with knowledge of the character of the visual material or
performance involved, shall knowingly permit the use of, or offer the use of,
viewing booths, stalls or partitioned portions of a room located in the
commercial establishment for the purpose of viewing visual materials or
performances depicting sexual conduct unless both of the following apply:
      (1)   The inside of each booth, stall or partitioned room is visible
from, and at least one side of each booth, stall or partitioned room is open
to, a continuous and contiguous main aisle or hallway that is open to the
public areas of the commercial establishment and is not obscured by any
curtain, door or other covering or enclosure; and
      (2)   No booth, stall or partitioned room is designed, constructed,
pandered or allowed to be used for the purpose of encouraging or facilitating
nudity or sexual activity on the part of or between patrons or members of the
public, and no booth, stall or partitioned room has any aperture, hole or
opening for the purpose of encouraging or facilitating nudity or sexual
activity.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that
either of the following applies to the involved visual materials or
performances:
      (1)   The visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct are
disseminated or presented for a bona fide medical, scientific, educational,
religious, governmental, judicial or other proper purpose and by or to a
physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist, teacher, person pursuing bona
fide studies or research, librarian, member of the clergy, prosecutor, judge or
other person having a proper interest in the visual materials or performances;
and
      (2)   The visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct,
taken as a whole, would be found by a reasonable person to have serious
literary, artistic, political or scientific value or are presented or
disseminated in good faith for a serious literary, artistic, political or
scientific purpose and are not pandered for their prurient appeal.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of permitting unlawful
operation of viewing booths depicting sexual conduct, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 2907.38)
§ 133.18 JUVENILES ON THE PREMISES OF ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ADULT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited in
which coin- operated, slug-operated or electronically, electrically or
mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other
image-producing devices are regularly maintained to show images to five or
fewer persons per machine at any one time, and in which the images so displayed
are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis upon matter exhibiting or
describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, or ADULT VIDEO STORE.
         (a)   A commercial establishment that, for any form of consideration,
has as a significant or substantial portion of its stock-in-trade in, derives a
significant or substantial portion of its revenues from, devotes a significant
or substantial portion of its interior business or advertising to or maintains
a substantial section of its sales or display space for the sale or rental of
any of the following:
            1.   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, compact discs, slides or
other visual representations, that are characterized by their emphasis upon the
exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas; and
            2.   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia that are designed for
use or marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of self or others.
         (b)   Includes a commercial establishment as defined in R.C. §
2907.38. An establishment may have other principal business purposes that do
not involve the offering for sale, rental or viewing of materials exhibiting or
describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas and still
be categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty store or adult video store.
The existence of other principal business purposes does not exempt an
establishment from being categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty store
or adult video store so long as one of its principal business purposes is
offering for sale or rental, for some form of consideration, such materials
that exhibit or describe specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
      ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, juice bar, restaurant, bottle club or
similar commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages are
served, that regularly features any of the following:
         (a)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminudity;
         (b)   Live performances that are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities; and
         (c)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions that are distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis upon the exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT ENTERTAINMENT. The sale, rental or exhibition, for any form of
consideration, of books, films, video cassettes, magazines, periodicals or live
performances that are characterized by an emphasis on the exposure or display
of specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activity.
      ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT. An adult arcade, adult bookstore,
adult novelty store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motion picture
theater, adult theater, nude or seminude model studio or sexual encounter
establishment. An establishment in which a medical practitioner, psychologist,
psychiatrist or similar professional person licensed by the state engages in
medically approved and recognized therapy, including, but not limited to,
massage therapy, as regulated pursuant to R.C. § 4731.15, is not an “adult
entertainment establishment”.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where films,
motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or similar photographic reproductions
that are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition
or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas are
regularly shown for any form of consideration.
      ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar commercial
establishment that, for any form of consideration, regularly features persons
who appear in a state of nudity or seminudity or live performances that are
characterized by their emphasis upon the exposure of specified anatomical areas
or specified sexual activities.
      DISTINGUISHED OR CHARACTERIZED BY THEIR EMPHASIS UPON. The dominant or
principal character and theme of the object described by this phrase. For
instance, when the phrase refers to films “that are distinguished or
characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas”, the films so described are
those whose dominant or principal character and theme are the exhibition or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      NUDE OR SEMINUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person, who regularly
appears in a state of nudity or seminudity, is provided for money or any other
form of consideration to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured,
photographed or similarly depicted by other persons. A modeling class or studio
is not a nude or seminude model studio and is not subject to this chapter if it
is operated in any of the following ways:
         (a)   By a college or university supported entirely or partly by
taxation;
         (b)   By a private college or university that maintains and operates
educational programs, the credits for which are transferable to a college or
university supported entirely or partly by taxation; and
         (c)   In a structure that has no sign visible from the exterior of the
structure and no other advertising indicating that a person appearing in a
state of nudity or seminudity is available for viewing, if in order to
participate in a class in the structure, a student must enroll at least three
days in advance of the class and if not more than one nude or seminude model is
on the premises at any one time.
      NUDITY, NUDE or STATE OF NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female
genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft or cleavage with less than a
fully opaque covering; or the showing of the female breasts with less than a
fully opaque covering of any part of the nipple.
      REGULARLY FEATURES or REGULARLY SHOWN. A consistent or substantial course
of conduct, such that the films or performances exhibited constitute a
substantial portion of the films or performances offered as a part of the
ongoing business of the adult entertainment establishment.
      SEMINUDE or STATE OF SEMINUDITY. A state of dress in which opaque
clothing covers not more than the genitals, pubic region and nipple of the
female breast, as well as portions of the body covered by supporting straps or
devices.
      SEXUAL ENCOUNTER ESTABLISHMENT.
         (a)   A business or commercial establishment that, as one of its
principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration a place where
either of the following occur.
            1.   Two or more persons may congregate, associate or consort for
the purpose of engaging in specified sexual activities.
            2.   Two or more persons appear nude or seminude for the purpose of
displaying their nude or seminude bodies for their receipt of consideration or
compensation in any type or form.
         (b)   An establishment where a medical practitioner, psychologist,
psychiatrist or similar professional person licensed by the state engages in
medically approved and recognized therapy, including, but not limited to,
massage therapy, as regulated pursuant to R.C. § 4731.15, is not a “sexual
encounter establishment”.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. The cleft of the buttocks, anus, male or
female genitals or the female breast.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Any of the following:
         (a)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, or actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation or sodomy; and
         (b)   Excretory functions as a part of or in connection with any of
the activities described in division (a) above.
   (B)   No person knowingly shall allow an individual, including, but not
limited to, a patron, customer or employee, who is under 18 years of age on the
premises of an adult entertainment establishment.
   (C)   No individual who is under 18 years of age knowingly shall show or
give false information concerning the individual’s name or age, or other false
identification, for the purpose of gaining entrance to an adult entertainment
establishment.
   (D)   A person shall not be found guilty of a violation of division (B)
above if the person raises as an affirmative defense and if the jury or, in a
nonjury trial, the court finds the person has established by a preponderance of
the evidence, all of the following:
      (1)   The individual gaining entrance to the adult entertainment
establishment exhibited to an operator, employee, agent or independent
contractor of the adult entertainment establishment a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card issued under R.C. §§ 4507.50 and
4507.52 showing that the individual was then at least 18 years of age.
      (2)   The operator, employee, agent or independent contractor made a
bonafide effort to ascertain the true age of the individual gaining entrance to
the adult entertainment establishment by checking the identification presented,
at the time of entrance, to ascertain that the description on the
identification compared with the appearance of the individual and that the
identification had not been altered in any way.
      (3)   The operator, employee, agent or independent contractor had reason
to believe that the individual gaining entrance to the adult entertainment
establishment was at least 18 years of age.
   (E)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense described in
division (D) above is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or the deputy
registrar who issued a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an
identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50 and 4507.52 shall be permitted to
submit certified copies of the records, in the Registrar’s or deputy
registrar’s possession, of the issuance of the license or identification card
in question, in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of the Bureau of Motor
Vehicles in the action.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) above is guilty of permitting a
juvenile on the premises of an adult entertainment establishment, a misdemeanor
of the first degree. Each day a person violates this division constitutes a
separate offense.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) above is guilty of use by a juvenile
of false information to enter an adult entertainment establishment, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if committed by
an adult.
(R.C. § 2907.39)
§ 133.19 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; ILLEGAL OPERATION AND ACTIVITY.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. A commercial establishment that has
as a significant or substantial portion of its stock in trade or inventory in,
derives a significant or substantial portion of its revenues from, devotes a
significant or substantial portion of its interior business or advertising to
or maintains a substantial section of its sales or display space for the sale
or rental, for any form of consideration, of books, magazines, periodicals or
other printed matter, or photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes,
compact discs, slides or other visual representations, that are characterized
by their emphasis upon the exhibition or description of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT CABARET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where films,
motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or similar photographic reproductions
that are characterized by their emphasis upon the display of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas are regularly shown to more than five
individuals for any form of consideration.
      CHARACTERIZED BY. Describing the essential character or quality of an
item.
      EMPLOYEE. Any individual who performs any service on the premises of a
sexually oriented business on a full-time, part-time or contract basis,
regardless of whether the individual is denominated an employee, independent
contractor, agent or otherwise, but does not include an individual exclusively
on the premises for repair or maintenance of the premises or for the delivery
of goods to the premises.
      NUDE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      NUDITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      OPERATOR. Any individual on the premises of a sexually oriented business
who causes the business to function or who puts or keeps in operation the
business or who is authorized to manage the business or exercise overall
operational control of the business premises.
      PATRON. Any individual on the premises of a sexually oriented business
except for any of the following:
         (a)   An operator or an employee of the sexually oriented business;
         (b)   An individual who is on the premises exclusively for repair or
maintenance of the premises or for the delivery of goods to the premises; and
         (c)   A public employee or a volunteer firefighter emergency medical
services worker acting within the scope of the public employee’s or volunteer’s
duties as a public employee or volunteer.
      PREMISES. The real property on which the sexually oriented business is
located and all appurtenances to the real property, including, but not limited,
to the sexually oriented business, the grounds, private walkways and parking
lots or parking garages adjacent to the real property under the ownership,
control or supervision of the owner or operator of the sexually oriented
business.
      REGULARLY. Consistently or repeatedly.
      SEMINUDE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      SEXUAL DEVICE. Any three-dimensional object designed and marketed for
stimulation of the male or female human genitals or anus or female breasts or
for sadomasochistic use or abuse of oneself or others, including, but not
limited to, dildos, vibrators, penis pumps and physical representations of the
human genital organs, but not including devices primarily intended for
protection against sexually transmitted diseases or for preventing pregnancy.
      SEXUAL DEVICE SHOP. A commercial establishment that regularly features
sexual devices, but not including any pharmacy, drug store, medical clinic or
establishment primarily dedicated to providing medical or healthcare products
or services, and not including any commercial establishment that does not
restrict access to its premises by reason of age.
      SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise that, as one
of its principal business purposes, purports to offer for any form of
consideration physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
individuals of the opposite sex when one or more of the individuals is nude or
seminude.
      SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult bookstore, adult video store, adult
cabaret, adult motion picture theater, sexual device shop or sexual encounter
center, but does not include a business solely by reason of its showing,
selling or renting materials that may depict sex.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Includes human genitals, pubic region and
buttocks and the human female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Sexual intercourse, oral copulation,
masturbation or sodomy, or excretory functions as a part of or in connection
with any of these activities.
      STATE OF NUDITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      STATE OF SEMINUDITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
   (B)   No sexually oriented business shall be or remain open for business
between 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. on any day, except that a sexually
oriented business that holds a liquor permit pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4303 may
remain open until the hour specified in that permit if it does not conduct,
offer or allow sexually oriented entertainment activity in which the performers
appear nude.
   (C)   (1)   No patron who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family
shall knowingly touch any employee while that employee is nude or seminude or
touch the clothing of any employee while that employee is nude or seminude.
      (2)   No employee who regularly appears nude or seminude on the premises
of a sexually oriented business, while on the premises of that sexually
oriented business and while nude or seminude, shall knowingly touch a patron
who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who
is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or the clothing of a patron
who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who
is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or allow a patron who is not
a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who is not a
member of the employee’s immediate family to touch the employee or the clothing
of the employee.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (B) above is guilty of illegally operating a
sexually oriented business, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (C) above is guilty of illegal sexually
oriented activity in a sexually oriented business. If the offender touches a
specified anatomical area of the patron or employee, or the clothing covering a
specified anatomical area, a violation of division (C) above is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the offender does not touch a specified anatomical area
of the patron or employee, or the clothing covering a specified anatomical
area, a violation of division (C) above is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2907.40)
Statutory reference:
   State indemnification for certain municipal liability stemming from local
adult business regulations, see R.C. § 715.55
§ 133.20 UNLAWFUL ADVERTISING OF MASSAGE.
   (A)   No person, by means of a statement, solicitation or offer in a print
or electronic publication, sign, placard, storefront display or other medium,
shall advertise massage, relaxation massage, any other massage technique or
method, or any related service, with the suggestion or promise of sexual
activity.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful advertising of
massage, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (C)   Nothing in this section prevents the municipality from enacting any
regulation of the advertising of massage further than and in addition to the
provisions of divisions (A) and (B) above.
   (D)   As used in this section, SEXUAL ACTIVITY has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2907.01.
(R.C. § 2927.17)
§ 133.21 NONCONSENSUAL DISSEMINATION OF PRIVATE SEXUAL IMAGES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CABLE SERVICE PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.01.
      DIRECT-TO-HOME SATELLITE SERVICE. Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. §
303, as amended.
      DISSEMINATE. To post, distribute or publish on a computer device,
computer network, web site or other electronic device or medium of
communication.
      IMAGE. A photograph, film, videotape, digital recording or other
depiction or portrayal of a person.
      INTERACTIVE COMPUTER SERVICE. Has the meaning defined in the
“Telecommunications Act of 1996”, 47 U.S.C. § 230, as amended.
      INTERNET PROVIDER. A provider of internet service, including all of the
following:
         (a)   Broadband service, however defined or classified by the Federal
Communications Commission;
         (b)   Information service or telecommunications service, both as
defined in the “Telecommunications Act of 1996”, 47 U.S.C. § 153, as amended;
and
         (c)   Internet protocol-enabled services, as defined in R.C. §
4927.01.
      MOBILE SERVICE. Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153, as amended.
      SEXUAL ACT. Any of the following:
         (a)   Sexual activity;
         (b)   Masturbation;
         (c)   An act involving a bodily substance that is performed for the
purpose of sexual arousal or gratification; or
         (d)   Sado-masochistic abuse.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIER. Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153,
as amended.
      VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly disseminate an image of another person if
all of the following apply.
      (1)   The person in the image is 18 years of age or older.
      (2)   The person in the image can be identified from the image itself or
from information displayed in connection with the image and the offender
supplied the identifying information.
      (3)   The person in the image is in a state of nudity or is engaged in a
sexual act.
      (4)   The image is disseminated without consent from the person in the
image.
      (5)   The image is disseminated with intent to harm the person in the
image.
   (C)   This section does not prohibit the dissemination of an image if any of
the following apply.
      (1)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of a criminal
investigation that is otherwise lawful.
      (2)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of, or in connection
with, the reporting of unlawful conduct.
      (3)   The image is part of a news report or commentary or an artistic or
expressive work, such as a performance, work of art, literary work, theatrical
work, musical work, motion picture, film or audiovisual work.
      (4)   The image is disseminated by a law enforcement officer, or a
corrections officer or guard in a detention facility, acting within the scope
of the person’s official duties.
      (5)   The image is disseminated for another lawful public purpose.
      (6)   The person in the image is knowingly and willingly in a state of
nudity or engaged in a sexual act and is knowingly and willingly in a location
in which the person does not have a reasonable expectation of privacy.
      (7)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of medical treatment or
examination.
   (D)   The following entities are not liable for a violation of this section
solely as a result of an image or other information provided by another person:
      (1)   A provider of interactive computer service;
      (2)   A mobile service;
      (3)   A telecommunications carrier;
      (4)   An internet provider;
      (5)   A cable service provider;
      (6)   A direct-to-home satellite service; and
      (7)   A video service provider.
   (E)   Any conduct that is a violation of this section and any other section
of this code or the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under this section, the
other section or both sections.
   (F)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (F)(1)(b), (F)(1)
(c) or (F)(1)(d) below, whoever violates this section is guilty of
nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images, a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of this section or any substantially equivalent state law
or municipal ordinance, nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images is
a misdemeanor of the second degree.
         (c)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section or any substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, nonconsensual dissemination of
private sexual images is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (d)   If the offender is under 18 years of age and the person in the
image is not more than five years older than the offender, the offender shall
not be prosecuted under this section.
      (2)   In addition to any other penalty or disposition authorized or
required by law, the court may order any person who is convicted of a violation
of this section or who is adjudicated delinquent by reason of a violation of
this section to criminally forfeit all of the following property to the state
under R.C. Chapter 2981:
         (a)   Any profits or proceeds and any property the person has acquired
or maintained in violation of this section that the sentencing court determines
to have been acquired or maintained as a result of the violation;
         (b)   Any interest in, securities of, claim against or property or
contractual right of any kind affording a source of influence over any
enterprise that the person has established, operated, controlled or conducted
in violation of this section that the sentencing court determines to have been
acquired or maintained as a result of the violation.
   (G)   A victim of a violation of this section may commence a civil cause of
action against the offender, as described in R.C. § 2307.66.
(R.C. § 2917.211)
§ 133.99 PENALTY; SENTENCING FOR SEXUALLY ORIENTED OFFENSES; SEXUAL PREDATORS;
REGISTRATION.
   (A)   If an offender is being sentenced for a sexually oriented offense or
child-victim oriented offense that is a misdemeanor committed on or after
January 1, 1997, and the offender is a tier III sex offender/child-victim
offender relative to the offense or the offense is any offense listed in R.C. §
2901.07(D)(1) to (D)(3), the judge shall include in the offender’s sentence a
statement that the offender is a tier III sex offender/child-victim offender,
shall comply with the requirements of R.C. § 2950.03 and shall require the
offender to submit to a DNA specimen collection procedure pursuant to R.C. §
2901.07.
   (B)   If an offender is being sentenced for a sexually oriented offense or a
child-victim oriented offense that is a misdemeanor committed on or after
January 1, 1997, the judge shall include in the sentence a summary of the
offender’s duties imposed under R.C. §§ 2950.04, 2950.041, 2950.05 and 2950.06,
and the duration of the duties. The judge shall inform the offender, at the
time of sentencing, of those duties and of their duration. If required under
R.C. § 2950.03(A)(2), the judge shall perform the duties specified in that
section or, if required under R.C. § 2950.03(A)(6), the judge shall perform the
duties specified in that division.
(R.C. § 2929.23)
Cross-reference:
   Sentencing generally, see
Chapter 130
CHAPTER 134: GAMBLING OFFENSES
Section
   
134.01   Definitions
   
134.02   Application of provisions
   
134.03   Operating a gambling house
   
134.04   Public gaming
   
134.05   Cheating
   
134.06   Prohibitions against gambling; exception
   
134.07   Regulations concerning operation of licensed bingo game
   
134.08   Records to be kept
   
134.09   Requirements for bingo game operators
   
134.10   Bingo games for amusement only
   
134.11   Prohibitions where instant bingo game is conducted
   
134.12   Raffle drawings
   
134.13   Instant bingo other than at bingo sessions
   
134.14   Restrictions on owner or lessor of location at instant bingo
   
134.15   Skill-based amusement machines; prohibited conduct
   
134.16   Electronic instant bingo; prohibited conduct
Statutory reference:
   Conducting an illegal bingo game, felony, see R.C. § 2915.07
   Licensing bingo games by Attorney General, see R.C. § 2915.08
   Licensing distributors of bingo supplies by Attorney General, see R.C. §
2915.081
   Licensing manufacturers of bingo supplies by Attorney General, see R.C. §
2915.082
§ 134.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BET. The hazarding of anything of value upon the result of an event,
undertaking or contingency, but does not include a bona fide business risk.
   BINGO. Either of the following:
      (1)   A game with all of the following characteristics:
         (a)   The participants use bingo cards or sheets, including paper
formats and electronic representation or image formats, that are divided into
25 spaces arranged in five horizontal and five vertical rows of spaces, with
each space, except the central space, being designated by a combination of a
letter and a number and with the central space being designated as a free
space;
         (b)   The participants cover the spaces on the bingo cards or sheets
that correspond to combinations of letters and numbers that are announced by a
bingo game operator;
         (c)   A bingo game operator announces combinations of letters and
numbers that appear on objects that a bingo game operator selects by chance,
either manually or mechanically, from a receptacle that contains 75 objects at
the beginning of each game, each object marked by a different combination of a
letter and a number that corresponds to one of the 75 possible combinations of
a letter and a number that can appear on the bingo cards or sheets; and
         (d)   The winner of the bingo game includes any participant who
properly announces during the interval between the announcements of letters and
numbers, as described in division (1)(c) above, that a predetermined and pre-
announced pattern of spaces has been covered on a bingo card or sheet being
used by the participant.
      (2)   Instant bingo, electronic instant bingo and raffles.
   BINGO GAME OPERATOR. Any person, except security personnel, who performs
work or labor at the site of bingo, including, but not limited to, collecting
money from participants; handing out bingo cards or sheets or objects to cover
spaces on bingo cards or sheets; selecting from a receptacle the objects that
contain the combination of letters and numbers that appear on bingo cards or
sheets; calling out the combinations of letters and numbers; distributing
prizes; selling or redeeming instant bingo tickets or cards; selling or
redeeming electronic instant bingo tickets, credits or vouchers; accessing an
electronic instant bingo system other than as a participant; supervising the
operation of a punch board; selling raffle tickets; selecting raffle tickets
from a receptacle and announcing the winning numbers in a raffle; and
preparing, selling and serving food or beverages. BINGO GAME OPERATOR does not
include a person who is installing, maintaining, updating or repairing an
electronic instant bingo system.
   BINGO SESSION. A period that includes both of the following:
      (1)   Not to exceed five continuous hours for the conduct of one or more
games described in this division (1) of “bingo” in this section, instant bingo
and electronic instant bingo; and
      (2)   A period for the conduct of instant bingo and electronic instant
bingo for not more than two hours before and not more than two hours after the
period described in division (1) above.
   BINGO SUPPLIES. Bingo cards or sheets; instant bingo tickets or cards;
electronic bingo aids; raffle tickets; punch boards; seal cards; instant bingo
ticket dispensers; electronic instant bingo systems; and devices for selecting
or displaying the combination of bingo letters and numbers or raffle tickets.
Items that are BINGO SUPPLIES are not gambling devices if sold or otherwise
provided, and used, in accordance with this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915. For
purposes of this chapter, BINGO SUPPLIES are not to be considered equipment
used to conduct a bingo game.
   BOOKMAKING. The business of receiving or paying off bets.
   CHAMBER OF COMMERCE. Any organization of individuals, professionals and
businesses that has the purpose to advance the commercial, financial,
industrial and civic interests of the community and that is, and has received
from the Internal Revenue Service a determination letter that currently is in
effect stating that the organization is, exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(6).
   CHARITABLE BINGO GAME. Any bingo game described in divisions (1) or (2) of
the definition of “bingo” in this section that is conducted by a charitable
organization that has obtained a license pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08 and the
proceeds of which are used for a charitable purpose.
   CHARITABLE INSTANT BINGO ORGANIZATION.
      (1)   An organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under
IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3) and is a charitable organization
as defined in this section.
      (2)   The term does not include a charitable organization that is exempt
from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)
(3) and that is created by a veteran’s organization, a fraternal organization
or a sporting organization in regards to bingo conducted or assisted by a
veteran’s organization, a fraternal organization or a sporting organization
pursuant to R.C. § 2915.13, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, CHARITABLE
ORGANIZATION means either of the following:
         (a)   An organization that is exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3); and
         (b)   A volunteer rescue service organization, volunteer firefighter’s
organization, veteran’s organization, fraternal organization or sporting
organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC §§ 501(c)
(4), 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10) or 501(c)(19).
      (2)   To qualify as a charitable organization, an organization shall have
been in continuous existence as such in this state for a period of two years
immediately preceding either the making of an application for a bingo license
under R.C. § 2915.08 or the conducting of any game of chance as provided in
R.C. § 2915.02(D), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   CHARITABLE PURPOSE. Means that the net profit of bingo, other than instant
bingo or electronic instant bingo, is used by, or is given, donated or
otherwise transferred to, any of the following:
      (1)   Any organization that is described in IRC §§ 509(a)(1), 509(a)(2)
or 509(a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an organization that is tax
exempt under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3);
      (2)   A veteran’s organization that is a post, chapter or organization of
veterans, or an auxiliary unit or society of, or a trust or foundation for, any
such post, chapter or organization organized in the United States or any of its
possessions, at least 75% of the members of which are veterans and
substantially all of the other members of which are individuals who are
spouses, widows or widowers of veterans, or such individuals, provided that no
part of the net earnings of such post, chapter or organization inures to the
benefit of any private shareholder or individual, and further provided that the
net profit is used by the post, chapter, or organization for the charitable
purposes set forth in R.C. § 5739.02(B)(12), is used for awarding scholarships
to or for attendance at an institution mentioned in that division of the Ohio
Revised Code, is donated to a governmental agency, or is used for nonprofit
youth activities, the purchase of United States or Ohio flags that are donated
to schools, youth groups, or other bona fide nonprofit organizations, promotion
of patriotism or disaster relief;
      (3)   A fraternal organization that has been in continuous existence in
this state for 15 years and that uses the net profit exclusively for religious,
charitable, scientific, literary or educational purposes, or for the prevention
of cruelty to children or animals, if contributions for such use would qualify
as a deductible charitable contribution under IRC § 170; and
      (4)   A volunteer firefighter’s organization that uses the net profit for
the purposes set forth in the definition of VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTER’S
ORGANIZATION in this section.
   COMMUNITY ACTION AGENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 122.66.
   CONDUCT. To back, promote, organize, manage, carry on, sponsor or prepare
for the operation of bingo or a game of chance, a scheme of chance or a
sweepstakes.
   DEAL. A single game of instant bingo tickets, or a single game of electronic
instant bingo tickets, all with the same serial number.
   DISTRIBUTOR. Any person who purchases or obtains bingo supplies and who does
either of the following:
      (1)   Sells, offers for sale or otherwise provides or offers to provide
the bingo supplies to another person for use in this state; and
      (2)   Modifies, converts, adds to or removes parts from the bingo
supplies to further their promotion or sale for use in this state.
   ELECTRONIC BINGO AID.
      (1)   An electronic device used by a participant to monitor bingo cards
or sheets purchased at the time and place of a bingo session and that does all
of the following:
         (a)   It provides a means for a participant to input numbers and
letters announced by a bingo caller;
         (b)   It compares the numbers and letters entered by the participant
to the bingo faces previously stored in the memory of the device; and
         (c)   It identifies a winning bingo pattern.
      (2)   The term does not include any device into which a coin, currency,
token or an equivalent is inserted to activate play.
   ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO.
      (1)   A form of bingo that consists of an electronic or digital
representation of instant bingo in which a participant wins a prize if the
participant’s electronic instant bingo ticket contains a combination of numbers
or symbols that was designated in advance as a winning combination, and to
which all of the following apply:
         (a)   Each deal has a predetermined, finite number of winning and
losing tickets and a predetermined prize amount and deal structure, provided
that there may be multiple winning combinations in each deal and multiple
winning tickets.
         (b)   Each electronic instant bingo ticket within a deal has a unique
serial number that is not regenerated.
         (c)   Each electronic instant bingo ticket within a deal is sold for
the same price.
         (d)   After a participant purchases an electronic instant bingo
ticket, the combination of numbers or symbols on the ticket is revealed to the
participant.
         (e)   The reveal of numbers or symbols on the ticket may incorporate
an entertainment or bonus theme, provided that the reveal does not include
spinning reels that resemble a slot machine.
         (f)   The reveal theme, if any, does not require additional
consideration or award any prize other than any predetermined prize associated
with the electronic instant bingo ticket.
      (2)   The term shall not include any of the following:
         (a)   Any game, entertainment or bonus theme that replicates or
simulates any of the following:
            1.   The gambling games of keno, blackjack, roulette, poker, craps,
other casino-style table games;
            2.   Horse racing; and/or
            3.   Gambling games offered in this state on slot machines or video
lottery terminals. As used in this division, “video lottery terminal” has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 3770.21.
         (b)   Any device operated by dropping one or more coins or tokens into
a slot and pulling a handle or pushing a button or touchpoint on a touchscreen
to activate one to three or more rotating reels marked into horizontal segments
by varying symbols, where the predetermined prize amount depends on how and how
many of the symbols line up when the rotating reels come to a rest; and
         (c)   Any device that includes a coin or token slot, tray or hopper
and the ability to dispense coins, cash, tokens, or anything of value other
than a credit ticket voucher.
   ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO SYSTEM. Both of the following:
      (1)   A mechanical, electronic, digital or video device and associated
software to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   It is used by not more than one player at a time to play
electronic instant bingo on a single screen that is physically connected to the
device; and
         (b)   It is located on the premises of the principal place of business
of a veteran’s or fraternal organization that holds a type II or type III bingo
license to conduct electronic instant bingo at that location issued under R.C.
§ 2915.08.
      (2)   Any associated equipment or software used to manage, monitor or
document any aspect of electronic instant bingo.
   EXPENSES. The reasonable amount of gross profit actually expended for all of
the following:
      (1)   The purchase or lease of bingo supplies;
      (2)   The annual license fee required under R.C. § 2915.08;
      (3)   Bank fees and service charges for a bingo session or game account
described in R.C. § 2915.10;
      (4)   Audits and accounting services;
      (5)   Safes;
      (6)   Cash registers;
      (7)   Hiring security personnel;
      (8)   Advertising bingo;
      (9)   Renting premises in which to conduct a bingo session;
      (10)   Tables and chairs;
      (11)   Expenses for maintaining and operating a charitable organization’s
facilities, including, but not limited to, a post home, club house, lounge,
tavern or canteen and any grounds attached to the post home, club house,
lounge, tavern or canteen;
      (12)   Payment of real property taxes and assessments that are levied on
a premises on which bingo is conducted; and
      (13)   Any other product or service directly related to the conduct of
bingo that is authorized in rules adopted by the Attorney General under R.C. §
2915.08(F)(1).
   FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION. Any society, order, state headquarters or
association within this state, except a college or high school fraternity, that
is not organized for profit, that is a branch, lodge or chapter of a national
or state organization, that exists exclusively for the common business or
sodality of its members.
   GAMBLING DEVICE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A book, totalizer or other equipment used for recording bets;
      (2)   A ticket, token or other device representing a chance, share or
interest in a scheme of chance or evidencing a bet;
      (3)   A deck of cards, dice, gaming table, roulette wheel, slot machine
or other apparatus designed for use in connection with a game of chance;
      (4)   Any equipment, device, apparatus or paraphernalia specially
designed for gambling purposes; and
      (5)   Bingo supplies sold or otherwise provided, or used, in violation of
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
   GAMBLING OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. Chapter 2915;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States substantially equivalent to any
provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 or a violation of R.C. § 2915.06
as it existed prior to July 1, 1996;
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former municipal ordinance or law
of this or any other state or of the United States, of which gambling is an
element; or
      (4)   A conspiracy or attempt to commit, or complicity in committing, any
offense under division (1), (2) or (3) above.
   GAME FLARE. The board or placard, or electronic representation of a board or
placard, that accompanies each deal of instant bingo or electronic instant
bingo tickets and that includes the following information for the game:
      (1)   The name of the game;
      (2)   The manufacturer’s name or distinctive logo;
      (3)   The form number;
      (4)   The ticket count;
      (5)   The prize structure, including the number of winning tickets by
denomination and the respective winning symbol or number combinations for the
winning tickets;
      (6)   The cost per play; and
      (7)   The serial number of the game.
   GAME OF CHANCE. Poker, craps, roulette or other game in which a player gives
anything of value in the hope of gain, the outcome of which is determined
largely by chance, but does not include bingo.
   GAME OF CHANCE CONDUCTED FOR PROFIT. Any game of chance designed to produce
income for the person who conducts or operates the game of chance, but does not
include bingo.
   GROSS ANNUAL REVENUES. The annual gross receipts derived from the conduct of
bingo described in division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in this section
plus the annual net profit derived from the conduct of bingo described in
division (2) of the definition of “bingo” in this section.
   GROSS PROFIT. Gross receipts minus the amount actually expended for the
payment of prize awards.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. All money or assets, including admission fees, that a person
receives from bingo without the deduction of any amounts for prizes paid out or
for the expenses of conducting bingo. The term does not include any money
directly taken in from the sale of food or beverages by a charitable
organization conducting bingo, or by a bona fide auxiliary unit or society of a
charitable organization conducting bingo, provided all of the following apply.
      (1)   The auxiliary unit or society has been in existence as a bona fide
auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization for at least two years
prior to conducting bingo.
      (2)   The person who purchases the food or beverage receives nothing of
value except the food or beverage and items customarily received with the
purchase of that food or beverage.
      (3)   The food and beverages are sold at customary and reasonable prices.
   HISTORIC RAILROAD. All or a portion of the tracks and right-of-way of a
railroad that was owned and operated by a for profit common carrier in this
state at any time prior to January 1, 1950.
   INSTANT BINGO. A form of bingo that shall use folded or banded tickets or
paper cards with perforated break-open tabs, a face of which is covered or
otherwise hidden from view to conceal a number, letter or symbol, or set of
numbers, letters or symbols, some of which have been designated in advance as
prize winners, and may also include games in which some winners are determined
by the random selection of one or more bingo numbers by the use of a seal card
or bingo blower. INSTANT BINGO also includes a punch board game. In all INSTANT
BINGO the prize amount and structure shall be predetermined. The term does not
include electronic INSTANT BINGO or any device that is activated by the
insertion of a coin, currency, token or an equivalent, and that contains as one
of its components a video display monitor that is capable of displaying
numbers, letters, symbols or characters in winning or losing combinations.
   INSTANT BINGO TICKET DISPENSER. A mechanical device that dispenses an
instant bingo ticket or card as the sole item of value dispensed and that has
the following characteristics.
      (1)   It is activated upon the insertion of United States currency.
      (2)   It performs no gaming functions.
      (3)   It does not contain a video display monitor or generate noise.
      (4)   It is not capable of displaying any numbers, letters, symbols or
characters in winning or losing combinations.
      (5)   It does not simulate or display rolling or spinning reels.
      (6)   It is incapable of determining whether a dispensed bingo ticket or
card is a winning or non-winning ticket or card and requires a winning ticket
or card to be paid by a bingo game operator.
      (7)   It may provide accounting and security features to aid in
accounting for the instant bingo tickets or cards it dispenses.
      (8)   It is not part of an electronic network and is not interactive.
   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE (IRC). The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 100 Stat.
2085, 26 U.S.C. §§ 1 et seq., as now or hereafter amended.
   MANUFACTURER. Any person who assembles completed bingo supplies from raw
materials, other items, or subparts or who modifies, converts, adds to or
removes parts from bingo supplies to further their promotion or sale.
   MERCHANDISE PRIZE. Any item of value, but shall not include any of the
following:
      (1)   Cash, gift cards or any equivalent thereof;
      (2)   Plays on games of chance, state lottery tickets or bingo;
      (3)   Firearms, tobacco or alcoholic beverages; or
      (4)   A redeemable voucher that is redeemable for any of the items listed
in division (1), (2) or (3) above.
   NET PROFIT. Gross profit minus expenses.
   NET PROFIT FROM THE PROCEEDS OF THE SALE OF INSTANT BINGO OR ELECTRONIC
INSTANT BINGO. Gross profit minus the ordinary, necessary and reasonable
expense expended for the purchase of bingo supplies for the purpose of
conducting instant bingo or electronic instant bingo, and, in the case of
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conducted by a veteran’s, fraternal
or sporting organization, minus the payment by that organization of real
property taxes and assessments levied on a premises on which instant bingo or
electronic instant bingo is conducted.
   PARTICIPANT. Any person who plays bingo.
   PERSON. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1.59 and includes any firm or any
other legal entity, however organized.
   POOL NOT CONDUCTED FOR PROFIT. A scheme in which a participant gives a
valuable consideration for a chance to win a prize and the total amount of
consideration wagered is distributed to a participant or participants.
   PUNCH BOARD. A form of instant bingo that uses a board containing a number
of holes or receptacles of uniform size in which are placed, mechanically and
randomly, serially numbered slips of paper that may be punched or drawn from
the hole or receptacle. A player may punch or draw the numbered slips of paper
from the holes or receptacles and obtain the prize established for the game if
the number drawn corresponds to a winning number or, if the punch board
includes the use of a seal card, a potential winning number.
   RAFFLE. A form of bingo in which the one or more prizes are won by one or
more persons who have purchased a raffle ticket. The one or more winners of the
raffle are determined by drawing a ticket stub or other detachable section from
a receptacle containing ticket stubs or detachable sections corresponding to
all tickets sold for the raffle. The term does not include the drawing of a
ticket stub or other detachable section of a ticket purchased to attend a
professional sporting event if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The ticket stub or other detachable section is used to select the
winner of a free prize given away at the professional sporting event; and
      (2)   The cost of the ticket is the same as the cost of a ticket to the
professional sporting event on days when no free prize is given away.
   REDEEMABLE VOUCHER. Any ticket, token, coupon, receipt or other noncash
representation of value.
   RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION. Any church, body of communicants or group that is
not organized or operated for profit and that gathers in common membership for
regular worship and religious observances.
   REVOKE. To void permanently all rights and privileges of the holder of a
license issued under R.C. §§ 2915.08, 2915.081 or 2915.082 or a charitable
gaming license issued by another jurisdiction.
   SCHEME OF CHANCE.
      (1)   A slot machine unless authorized under R.C. Chapter 3772, lottery
unless authorized under R.C. Chapter 3770, numbers game, pool conducted for
profit or other scheme in which a participant gives a valuable consideration
for a chance to win a prize, but does not include bingo, a skill-based
amusement machine or a pool not conducted for profit. SCHEME OF CHANCE includes
the use of an electronic device to reveal the results of a game entry if
valuable consideration is paid, directly or indirectly, for a chance to win a
prize. Valuable consideration is deemed to be paid for a chance to win a prize
in the following instances:
         (a)   Less than 50% of the goods or services sold by a scheme of
chance operator in exchange for game entries are used or redeemed by
participants at any one location;
         (b)   Less than 50% of participants who purchase goods or services at
any one location do not accept, use, or redeem the goods or services sold or
purportedly sold;
         (c)   More than 50% of prizes at any one location are revealed to
participants through an electronic device simulating a game of chance or a
“casino game” as defined in R.C. § 3772.01;
         (d)   The good or service sold by a scheme of chance operator in
exchange for a game entry cannot be used or redeemed in the manner advertised;
         (e)   A participant pays more than fair market value for goods or
services offered by a scheme of chance operator in order to receive one or more
game entries;
         (f)   A participant may use the electronic device to purchase
additional game entries;
         (g)   A participant may purchase additional game entries by using
points or credits won as prizes while using the electronic device;
         (h)   A scheme of chance operator pays out in prize money more than
20% of the gross revenue received at one location; or
         (i)   A participant makes a purchase or exchange in order to obtain
any good or service that may be used to facilitate play on the electronic
device.
      (2)   As used in this division, ELECTRONIC DEVICE means a mechanical,
video, digital or electronic machine or device that is capable of displaying
information on a screen or other mechanism and that is owned, leased or
otherwise possessed by any person conducting a scheme of chance, or by that
person’s partners, affiliates, subsidiaries or contractors. ELECTRONIC DEVICE
does not include an electronic instant bingo system.
   SEAL CARD. A form of instant bingo that uses instant bingo tickets in
conjunction with a board or placard that contains one or more seals that, when
removed or opened, reveal predesignated winning numbers, letters or symbols.
   SECURITY PERSONNEL. Includes any person who either is a Sheriff, deputy
sheriff, Marshal, deputy marshal, township constable or member of an organized
police department of a municipal corporation or has successfully completed a
peace officer’s training course pursuant to R.C. §§ 109.71 through 109.79 and
who is hired to provide security for the premises on which bingo is conducted.
   SKILL-BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINE.
      (1)   (a)   A mechanical, video, digital or electronic device that
rewards the player or players, if at all, only with merchandise prizes or with
redeemable vouchers redeemable only for merchandise prizes, provided that with
respect to rewards for playing the game all of the following apply:
            1.   The wholesale value of a merchandise prize awarded as a result
of the single play of a machine does not exceed $10;
            2.   Redeemable vouchers awarded for any single play of a machine
are not redeemable for a merchandise prize with a wholesale value of more than
$10;
            3.   Redeemable vouchers are not redeemable for a merchandise prize
that has a wholesale value of more than $10 times the fewest number of single
plays necessary to accrue the redeemable vouchers required to obtain that
prize; and
            4.   Any redeemable vouchers or merchandise prizes are distributed
at the site of the skill-based amusement machine at the time of play.
         (b)   A card for the purchase of gasoline is a redeemable voucher for
purposes of division (1) above even if the skill-based amusement machine for
the play of which the card is awarded is located at a place where gasoline may
not be legally distributed to the public or the card is not redeemable at the
location of, or at the time of playing, the skill-based amusement machine.
      (2)   A device shall not be considered a skill-based amusement machine
and shall be considered a slot machine if it pays cash or one or more of the
following apply:
         (a)   The ability of a player to succeed at the game is impacted by
the number or ratio of prior wins to prior losses of players playing the game;
         (b)   Any reward of redeemable vouchers is not based solely on the
player achieving the object of the game or the player’s score;
         (c)   The outcome of the game, or the value of the redeemable voucher
or merchandise prize awarded for winning the game, can be controlled by a
source other than any player playing the game;
         (d)   The success of any player is or may be determined by a chance
event that cannot be altered by player actions;
         (e)   The ability of any player to succeed at the game is determined
by game features not visible or known to the player; and
         (f)   The ability of the player to succeed at the game is impacted by
the exercise of a skill that no reasonable player could exercise.
      (3)   All of the following apply to any machine that is operated as
described in division (1) above:
         (a)   As used in this definition of “skill-based amusement machine”,
GAME and PLAY mean one event from the initial activation of the machine until
the results of play are determined without payment of additional consideration.
An individual utilizing a machine that involves a single game, play, contest,
competition or tournament may be awarded redeemable vouchers or merchandise
prizes based on the results of play.
         (b)   Advance play for a single game, play, contest, competition or
tournament participation may be purchased. The cost of the contest, competition
or tournament participation may be greater than a single non-contest,
competition or tournament play.
         (c)   To the extent that the machine is used in a contest, competition
or tournament, that contest, competition or tournament has a defined starting
and ending date and is open to participants in competition for scoring and
ranking results toward the awarding of redeemable vouchers or merchandise
prizes that are stated prior to the start of the contest, competition or
tournament.
      (4)   For purposes of division (1) above, the mere presence of a device,
such as a pin- setting, ball-releasing or scoring mechanism, that does not
contribute to or affect the outcome of the play of the game does not make the
device a skill-based amusement machine.
   SLOT MACHINE.
      (1)   Either of the following:
         (a)   Any mechanical, electronic, video or digital device that is
capable of accepting anything of value, directly or indirectly, from or on
behalf of a player who gives the thing of value in the hope of gain; or
         (b)   Any mechanical, electronic, video or digital device that is
capable of accepting anything of value, directly or indirectly, from or on
behalf of a player to conduct bingo or a scheme or game of chance.
      (2)   The term does not include a skill-based amusement machine, an
instant bingo ticket dispenser, or an electronic instant bingo system.
   SPORTING ORGANIZATION. A hunting, fishing or trapping organization, other
than a college or high school fraternity or sorority, that is not organized for
profit, that is affiliated with a state or national sporting organization,
including, but not limited to, the League of Ohio Sportsmen, and that has been
in continuous existence in this state for a period of three years.
   SUSPEND. To interrupt temporarily all rights and privileges of the holder of
a license issued under R.C. §§ 2915.08, 2915.081 or 2915.082 or a charitable
gaming license issued by another jurisdiction.
   SWEEPSTAKES.
      (1)   Any game, contest, advertising scheme or plan or other promotion
where consideration is not required for a person to enter to win or become
eligible to receive any prize, the determination of which is based upon chance.
      (2)   SWEEPSTAKES does not include bingo as authorized under R.C. Chapter
2915, pari-mutuel wagering as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3769, lotteries
conducted by the State Lottery Commission as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3770,
and casino gaming as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3772.
   SWEEPSTAKES TERMINAL DEVICE.
      (1)   A mechanical, video, digital or electronic machine or device that
is owned, leased or otherwise possessed by any person conducting a sweepstakes,
or by that person’s partners, affiliates, subsidiaries or contractors, that is
intended to be used by a sweepstakes participant, and that is capable of
displaying information on a screen or other mechanism. A device is a
SWEEPSTAKES TERMINAL DEVICE if any of the following apply.
         (a)   The device uses a simulated game terminal as a representation of
the prizes associated with the results of the sweepstakes entries.
         (b)   The device utilizes software such that the simulated game
influences or determines the winning of or value of the prize.
         (c)   The device selects prizes from a predetermined finite pool of
entries.
         (d)   The device utilizes a mechanism that reveals the content of a
predetermined sweepstakes entry.
         (e)   The device predetermines the prize results and stores those
results for delivery at the time the sweepstakes entry results are revealed.
         (f)   The device utilizes software to create a game result.
         (g)   The device reveals the prize incrementally, even though the
device does not influence the awarding of the prize or the value of any prize
awarded.
         (h)   The device determines and associates the prize with an entry or
entries at the time the sweepstakes is entered.
      (2)   As used in this definition and in §
134.02:
         ENTER. The act by which a person becomes eligible to receive any prize
offered in a sweepstakes.
         ENTRY. One event from the initial activation of the sweepstakes
terminal device until all the sweepstakes prize results from that activation
are revealed.
         PRIZE. Any gift, award, gratuity, good, service, credit, reward or any
other thing of value that may be transferred to a person, whether possession of
the prize is actually transferred, or placed on an account or other record as
evidence of the intent to transfer the prize.
         SWEEPSTAKES TERMINAL DEVICE FACILITY. Any location in this state where
a sweepstakes terminal device is provided to a sweepstakes participant, except
as provided in §
134.02(G) and R.C. § 2915.02(G).
   VETERAN’S ORGANIZATION. Any individual post or state headquarters of a
national veteran’s association or an auxiliary unit of any individual post of a
national veteran’s association, which post, state headquarters or auxiliary
unit is incorporated as a nonprofit corporation and either has received a
letter from the state headquarters of the national veteran’s association
indicating that the individual post or auxiliary unit is in good standing with
the national veteran’s association or has received a letter from the national
veteran’s association indicating that the state headquarters is in good
standing with the national veteran’s association. As used in this definition,
NATIONAL VETERAN’S ASSOCIATION means any veteran’s association that has been in
continuous existence as such for a period of at least five years and either is
incorporated by an act of the United States Congress or has a national dues-
paying membership of at least 5,000 persons.
   VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTER’S ORGANIZATION. Any organization of volunteer
firefighters, as defined in R.C. § 146.01, that is organized and operated
exclusively to provide financial support for a volunteer fire department or a
volunteer fire company and that is recognized or ratified by a county,
municipal corporation or township.
   VOLUNTEER RESCUE SERVICE ORGANIZATION. Any organization of volunteers
organized to function as an emergency medical service organization, as defined
in R.C. § 4765.01.
   YOUTH ATHLETIC ORGANIZATION. Any organization, not organized for profit,
that is organized and operated exclusively to provide financial support to, or
to operate, athletic activities for persons who are 21 years of age or younger
by means of sponsoring, organizing, operating or contributing to the support of
an athletic team, club, league or association.
   YOUTH ATHLETIC PARK ORGANIZATION. Any organization, not organized for
profit, that satisfies both of the following:
      (1)   It owns, operates and maintains playing fields that satisfy both of
the following:
         (a)   The playing fields are used for athletic activities by one or
more organizations, not organized for profit, each of which is organized and
operated exclusively to provide financial support to, or to operate, athletic
activities for persons who are 18 years of age or younger by means of
sponsoring, organizing, operating or contributing to the support of an athletic
team, club, league or association.
         (b)   The playing fields are not used for any profit-making activity
at any time during the year.
      (2)   It uses the proceeds of bingo it conducts exclusively for the
operation, maintenance and improvement of its playing fields of the type
described in division (1) above.
(R.C. § 2915.01) (Prior Code, § 9.06.01)
§ 134.02 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Any person having previously been convicted of a gambling offense
under this code or the Ohio Revised Code, shall, on a subsequent offense, be
prosecuted pursuant to the provisions of R.C. Title 29.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to §
134.04.
(Prior Code, § 9.06.02)
§ 134.03 OPERATING A GAMBLING HOUSE.
   (A)   No person, being the owner or lessee, or having custody, control or
supervision of premises, shall:
      (1)   Use or occupy the premises for gambling in violation of R.C. §
2915.02 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance; or
      (2)   Recklessly permit the premises to be used or occupied for gambling
in violation of R.C. § 2915.02 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) above is guilty of operating a gambling
house, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been
convicted of a gambling offense, operating a gambling house is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   Premises used or occupied in violation of this section constitute a
nuisance subject to abatement under R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2915.03) (Prior Code, § 9.06.04)
§ 134.04 PUBLIC GAMING.
   (A)   No person, while at a hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall or
other place of public accommodation, business, amusement or resort shall make a
bet or play any game of chance or scheme of chance.
   (B)   No person, being the owner or lessee, or having custody, control or
supervision of a hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall or other place
of public accommodation, business, amusement or resort shall recklessly permit
those premises to be used or occupied in violation of division (A) above.
   (C)   Divisions (A) and (B) above do not prohibit conduct in connection with
gambling expressly permitted by law.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of public gaming. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, public gaming is a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   If the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling
offense, public gaming is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (E)   Premises used or occupied in violation of division (B) above
constitute a nuisance subject to abatement under R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2915.04) (Prior Code, § 9.06.05)
§ 134.05 CHEATING.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall engage in conduct designed to corrupt the outcome
of any of the following:
      (1)   The subject of a bet;
      (2)   A contest of knowledge, skill or endurance that is not an athletic
or sporting event;
      (3)   A scheme or game of chance; and
      (4)   Bingo.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Offer, give, solicit or accept anything of value to corrupt the
outcome of an athletic or sporting event; and
      (2)   Engage in conduct designed to corrupt the outcome of an athletic or
sporting event.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) above is guilty of cheating.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, cheating is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the potential gain from the cheating is $1,000 or more or if
the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling offense or of any
theft offense as defined in R.C. § 2913.01, cheating is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B) above is guilty of corrupting
sports.
         (b)   Corrupting sports is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2915.05) (Prior Code, § 9.06.06)
§ 134.06 PROHIBITIONS AGAINST GAMBLING; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Engage in bookmaking, or knowingly engage in conduct that
facilitates bookmaking;
      (2)   Establish, promote or operate or knowingly engage in conduct that
facilitates any game of chance conducted for profit or any scheme of chance;
      (3)   Knowingly procure, transmit, exchange or engage in conduct that
facilitates the procurement, transmission, or exchange of information for use
in establishing odds or determining winners in connection with bookmaking or
with any game of chance conducted for profit or any scheme of chance;
      (4)   Engage in betting or in playing any scheme or game of chance as a
substantial source of income or livelihood;
      (5)   Conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a sweepstakes with the
use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes terminal device facility
and either:
         (a)   Give to another person any item described in R.C. § 2915.01(VV)
(1), (VV)(2), (VV)(3) or (VV)(4) as a prize for playing or participating in a
sweepstakes; or
         (b)   Give to another person any merchandise prize, or a redeemable
voucher for a merchandise prize, the wholesale value of which is in excess of
$10 and which is awarded as a single entry for playing or participating in a
sweepstakes. Redeemable vouchers shall not be redeemable for a merchandise
prize that has a wholesale value of more than $10.
      (6)   Conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a sweepstakes with the
use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes terminal device facility
without first obtaining a current annual “certificate of registration” from the
Attorney General as required by R.C. § 2915.02(F); and
      (7)   With purpose to violate division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
(A)(5) or (A)(6) above, acquire, possess, control or operate any gambling
device.
   (B)   For purposes of division (A)(1) above, a person facilitates bookmaking
if the person in any way knowingly aids an illegal bookmaking operation,
including, without limitation, placing a bet with a person engaged in or
facilitating illegal bookmaking. For purposes of division (A)(2) above, a
person facilitates a game of chance conducted for profit or a scheme of chance
if the person in any way knowingly aids in the conduct or operation of any such
game or scheme, including, without limitation, playing any such game or scheme.
   (C)   This section does not prohibit conduct in connection with gambling
expressly permitted by law.
   (D)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   Games of chance, if all of the following apply.
         (a)   The games of chance are not craps for money or roulette for
money.
         (b)   The games of chance are conducted by a charitable organization
that is and has received from the Internal Revenue Service a determination
letter that is currently in effect, stating that the organization is exempt
from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)
(3).
         (c)   The games of chance are conducted at festivals of the charitable
organization that are conducted not more than a total of five days a calendar
year, and are conducted on premises owned by the charitable organization for a
period of no less than one year immediately preceding the conducting of the
games of chance, on premises leased from a governmental unit, or on premises
that are leased from a veteran’s or fraternal organization and that have been
owned by the lessor veteran’s or fraternal organization for a period of no less
than one year immediately preceding the conducting of the games of chance. A
charitable organization shall not lease premises from a veteran’s or fraternal
organization to conduct a festival described in this division, if the veteran’s
or fraternal organization already has leased the premises 12 times during the
preceding year to charitable organizations for that purpose. If a charitable
organization leases premises from a veteran’s or fraternal organization to
conduct a festival described in this division, the charitable organization
shall not pay a rental rate for the premises per day of the festival that
exceeds the rental rate per bingo session that a charitable organization may
pay under R.C. § 2915.09(B)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance when it leases premises from another charitable organization to
conduct bingo games.
         (d)   All of the money or assets received from the games of chance
after deduction only of prizes paid out during the conduct of the games of
chance are used by, given, donated or otherwise transferred to any organization
that is described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2) or (a)(3) and is either a
governmental unit or an organization that is tax exempt under IRC § 501(a) and
described in IRC § 501(c)(3).
         (e)   The games of chance are not conducted during or within ten hours
of a bingo game conducted for amusement purposes only pursuant to R.C. §
2915.12 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance. No person shall
receive any commission, wage, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity or other
form of compensation, directly or indirectly, for operating or assisting in the
operation of any game of chance.
      (2)   Any tag fishing tournament, as defined in R.C. § 1531.01, operated
under a permit issued under R.C. § 1533.92; and
      (3)   Bingo conducted by a charitable organization that holds a license
issued under R.C. § 2915.08.
   (E)   Division (D) above shall not be construed to authorize the sale, lease
or other temporary or permanent transfer of the right to conduct games of
chance, as granted by that division, by any charitable organization that is
granted that right.
   (F)   Any person desiring to conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a
sweepstakes with the use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes
terminal device facility shall first register with the Office of the Attorney
General and obtain an annual certificate of registration by providing a filing
fee of $200 and all information as required by rule adopted under R.C. §
2915.02(H). Not later than the tenth day of each month, each sweepstakes
terminal device operator shall file a sweepstakes terminal device monthly
report with the Attorney General and provide a filing fee of $50 and all
information required by rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.02(H). All information
provided to the Attorney General under this division shall be available to law
enforcement upon request.
   (G)   (1)   A person may apply to the Attorney General, on a form prescribed
by the Attorney General, for a certificate of compliance that the person is not
operating a sweepstakes terminal device facility. The form shall require the
person to include the address of the business location where sweepstakes
terminal devices will be used and to make the following certifications:
         (a)   That the person will not use more than two sweepstakes terminal
devices at the business location;
         (b)   That the retail value of sweepstakes prizes to be awarded at the
business location using sweepstakes terminal devices during a reporting period
will be less than 3% of the gross revenue received at the business location
during the reporting period;
         (c)   That no other form of gaming except lottery ticket sales as
authorized under R.C. Chapter 3770 will be conducted at the business location
or in an adjoining area of the business location;
         (d)   That any sweepstakes terminal device at the business location
will not allow any deposit of any money, coin or token, or the use of any
credit card, debit card, prepaid card or any other method of similar payment to
be used, directly or indirectly, to participate in a sweepstakes;
         (e)   That notification of any prize will not take place on the same
day as a participant’s sweepstakes entry; and
         (f)   That the person consents to provide any other information to the
Attorney General as required by rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.02(H).
      (2)   The filing fee for a certificate of compliance is $250. The
Attorney General may charge up to an additional $250 for reasonable expenses
resulting from any investigation related to an application for a certificate of
compliance.
      (3)   A certificate of compliance is effective for one year. The
certificate holder may reapply for a certificate of compliance. A person issued
a certificate of compliance shall file semiannual reports with the Attorney
General stating the number of sweepstakes terminal devices at the business
location and that the retail value of prizes awarded at the business location
using sweepstakes terminal devices is less than 3% of the gross revenue
received at the business location.
   (H)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of gambling, a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling
offense, gambling is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
Notwithstanding this division, failing to file a sweepstakes terminal device
monthly report as required by division (F) above or the semiannual report
required by division (G) above is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2915.02(A) - (G), (K))
§ 134.07 REGULATIONS CONCERNING OPERATION OF LICENSED BINGO GAME.
   (A)   No charitable organization that conducts bingo shall fail to do any of
the following:
      (1)   Own all of the equipment used to conduct bingo or lease that
equipment from a charitable organization that is licensed to conduct bingo, or
from the landlord of a premises where bingo is conducted, for a rental rate
that is not more than is customary and reasonable for that equipment;
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(3) below, use all of
the gross receipts from bingo for paying prizes, for reimbursement of expenses
for or for renting premises in which to conduct bingo, for reimbursement of
expenses for or for purchasing or leasing bingo supplies used in conducting
bingo, for reimbursement of expenses for or for hiring security personnel, for
reimbursement of expenses for or for advertising bingo or for reimbursement of
other expenses or for other expenses listed in the definition for EXPENSES in
R.C. § 2915.01, provided that the amount of the receipts so spent is not more
than is customary and reasonable for a similar purchase, lease, hiring,
advertising or expense. If the building in which bingo is conducted is owned by
the charitable organization conducting bingo and the bingo conducted includes a
form of bingo described in division (1) of the definition of BINGO in R.C. §
2915.01, the charitable organization may deduct from the total amount of the
gross receipts from each session a sum equal to the lesser of $600 or 45% of
the gross receipts from the bingo described in that division as consideration
for the use of the premises; or
      (3)   Use, or give, donate, or otherwise transfer, all of the net profit
derived from bingo described in R.C. § 2915.01(O)(1) for a charitable purpose
listed in its license application and described in R.C. § 2915.01(V), or
distribute all of the net profit from the proceeds of the sale of instant bingo
or electronic instant bingo as stated in its license application and in
accordance with R.C. § 2915.101, as applicable.
   (B)   No charitable organization that conducts a bingo game described in
division (1) of the definition of BINGO in R.C. § 2915.01 shall fail to do any
of the following:
      (1)   Conduct the bingo game on premises that are owned by the charitable
organization, on premises that are owned by another charitable organization and
leased from that charitable organization for a rental rate not in excess of the
lesser of $650 per bingo session or 45% of the gross receipts of the bingo
session, on premises that are leased from a person other than a charitable
organization for a rental rate that is not more than is customary and
reasonable for premises that are similar in location, size, and quality but not
in excess of $450 per bingo session, or on premises that are owned by a person
other than a charitable organization, that are leased from that person by
another charitable organization, and that are subleased from that other
charitable organization by the charitable organization for a rental rate not in
excess of $450 per bingo session. No charitable organization is required to pay
property taxes or assessments on premises that the charitable organization
leases from another person to conduct bingo sessions. If the charitable
organization leases from a person other than a charitable organization the
premises on which it conducts bingo sessions, the lessor of the premises shall
provide only the premises to the organization and shall not provide the
organization with bingo game operators, security personnel, concessions or
concession operators, bingo supplies or any other type of service. A charitable
organization shall not lease or sublease premises that it owns or leases to
more than three other charitable organizations per calendar week for conducting
bingo sessions on the premises. A person that is not a charitable organization
shall not lease premises that it owns, leases or otherwise is empowered to
lease to more than three charitable organizations per calendar week for
conducting bingo sessions on the premises. In no case shall more than nine
bingo sessions be conducted on any premises in any calendar week;
      (2)   Display its license conspicuously at the premises where the bingo
session is conducted;
      (3)   Conduct the bingo session in accordance with division (1) of the
definition of BINGO in R.C. § 2915.01.
   (C)   No charitable organization that conducts a bingo game described in
division (1) of the definition of BINGO in R.C. § 2915.01 shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Pay any compensation to a bingo game operator for operating a bingo
session that is conducted by the charitable organization or for preparing,
selling or serving food or beverages at the site of the bingo session, permit
any auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization to pay
compensation to any bingo game operator who prepares, sells or serves food or
beverages at a bingo session conducted by the charitable organization, or
permit any auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization to prepare,
sell or serve food or beverages at a bingo session conducted by the charitable
organization, if the auxiliary unit or society pays any compensation to the
bingo game operators who prepare, sell or serve the food or beverages;
      (2)   Pay consulting fees to any person for any services performed in
relation to the bingo session;
      (3)   Pay concession fees to any person who provides refreshments to the
participants in the bingo session;
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(4), conduct more
than three bingo sessions in any seven-day period. A volunteer firefighter’s
organization or a volunteer rescue service organization that conducts not more
than five bingo sessions in a calendar year may conduct more than three bingo
sessions in a seven-day period after notifying the Attorney General when it
will conduct the sessions;
      (5)   Pay out more than $6,000 in prizes for bingo games described in
R.C. § 2915.01(S)(1) during any bingo session that is conducted by the
charitable organization. “Prizes” does not include awards from the conduct of
instant bingo;
      (6)   (a)   Conduct a bingo session at any time during the eight-hour
period between 2:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m., at any time during, or within ten
hours of, a bingo game conducted for amusement only pursuant to R.C. § 2915.12
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, at any premises not
specified on its license, or on any day of the week or during any time period
not specified on its license. This division (C)(6) does not prohibit the sale
of instant bingo tickets beginning at 9:00 a.m. for a bingo session that begins
at 10:00 a.m.;
         (b)   If circumstances make it impractical for the charitable
organization to conduct a bingo session at the premises, or on the day of the
week or at the time specified on its license or if a charitable organization
wants to conduct bingo sessions on a day of the week or at a time other than
the day or time specified on its license, the charitable organization may apply
in writing to the Attorney General for an amended license pursuant to R.C. §
2915.08(J). A charitable organization may apply twice in each calendar year for
an amended license to conduct bingo sessions on a day of the week or at a time
other than the day or time specified on its license. If the amended license is
granted, the organization may conduct bingo sessions at the premises, on the
day of the week, and at the time specified on its amended license;
      (7)   Permit any person whom the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, is under the age of 18 to work as a bingo game operator;
      (8)   Permit any person whom the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any
jurisdiction to be a bingo game operator;
      (9)   Permit the lessor of the premises on which the bingo session is
conducted, if the lessor is not a charitable organization, to provide the
charitable organization with bingo game operators, security personnel,
concessions, bingo supplies or any other type of service;
      (10)   Purchase or lease bingo supplies from any person except a
distributor issued a license under R.C. § 2915.081;
      (11)   (a)   Use or permit the use of electronic bingo aids except under
the following circumstances.
            1.   For any single participant, not more than 90 bingo faces can
be played using an electronic bingo aid or aids.
            2.   The charitable organization shall provide a participant using
an electronic bingo aid with corresponding paper bingo cards or sheets.
            3.   The total price of bingo faces played with an electronic bingo
aid shall be equal to the total price of the same number of bingo faces played
with a paper bingo card or sheet sold at the same bingo session but without an
electronic bingo aid.
            4.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be part of an electronic
network other than a network that includes only bingo aids and devices that are
located on the premises at which the bingo is being conducted or be interactive
with any device not located on the premises at which the bingo is being
conducted.
            5.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be used to participate in bingo
that is conducted at a location other than the location at which the bingo
session is conducted and at which the electronic bingo aid is used.
            6.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be used to provide for the
input of numbers and letters announced by a bingo caller other than the bingo
caller who physically calls the numbers and letters at the location at which
the bingo session is conducted and at which the electronic bingo aid is used.
         (b)   The Attorney General may adopt rules in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 119 that govern the use of electronic bingo aids. The rules may include
a requirement that an electronic bingo aid be capable of being audited by the
Attorney General to verify the number of bingo cards or sheets played during
each bingo session.
      (12)   Permit any person the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, to be under 18 years of age to play bingo described in division (1)
of the definition of BINGO in R.C. § 2915.01.
   (D)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) below, no
charitable organization shall provide to a bingo game operator, and no bingo
game operator shall receive or accept, any commission, wage, salary, reward,
tip, donation, gratuity or other form of compensation, directly or indirectly,
regardless of the source, for conducting bingo or providing other work or labor
at the site of bingo during a bingo session.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) below, no
charitable organization shall provide to a bingo game operator any commission,
wage, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity or other form of compensation,
directly or indirectly regardless of the source, for conducting instant bingo,
electronic instant bingo or both other than at a bingo session at the site of
instant bingo, electronic instant bingo or both other than at a bingo session.
      (3)   Nothing in this division (D) prohibits an employee of a fraternal
organization, veteran’s organization or sporting organization from selling
instant bingo tickets or cards to the organization’s members or invited guests,
as long as no portion of the employee’s compensation is paid from any receipts
of bingo.
   (E)   Notwithstanding division (B)(1) above, a charitable organization that,
prior to December 6, 1977, has entered into written agreements for the lease of
premises it owns to another charitable organization or other charitable
organizations for the conducting of bingo sessions so that more than two bingo
sessions are conducted per calendar week on the premises, and a person that is
not a charitable organization and that, prior to December 6, 1977, has entered
into written agreements for the lease of premises it owns to charitable
organizations for the conducting of more than two bingo sessions per calendar
week on the premises, may continue to lease the premises to those charitable
organizations, provided that no more than four sessions are conducted per
calendar week, that the lessor organization or person has notified the Attorney
General in writing of the organizations that will conduct the sessions and the
days of the week and the times of the day on which the sessions will be
conducted, that the initial lease entered into with each organization that will
conduct the sessions was filed with the Attorney General prior to December 6,
1977, and that each organization that will conduct the sessions was issued a
license to conduct bingo games by the Attorney General prior to December 6,
1977.
   (F)   This section does not prohibit a bingo licensed charitable
organization or a game operator from giving any person an instant bingo ticket
as a prize.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (A)(2) above is guilty of illegally
conducting a bingo game, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates division (A)
(1), (A)(3), (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), (C)(1) through (C)(11) or (D) above is
guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been convicted of
a violation of division (A)(1), (A)(3), (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), (C)(1) through
(C)(11) or (D) above, a violation of division (A)(1), (A)(3), (B)(1), (B)(2),
(B)(3), (C)(1) through (C)(11) or (D) above is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. Whoever violates division (C)(12) above is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation
of division (C)(12) above, a violation of division (C)(12) above is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.09)
§ 134.08 RECORDS TO BE KEPT.
   (A)   No charitable organization that conducts bingo or a game of chance
pursuant to R.C. § 2915.02(D), or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, shall fail to maintain the following records for at least three
years from the date on which the bingo or game of chance is conducted:
      (1)   An itemized list of the gross receipts of each bingo session, each
game of instant bingo by serial number, each electronic instant bingo game by
serial number, each raffle, each punch board game and each game of chance, and
an itemized list of the gross profits of each game of instant bingo by serial
number and each electronic instant bingo game by serial number;
      (2)   An itemized list of all expenses, other than prizes, that are
incurred in conducting bingo, the name of each person to whom the expenses are
paid, and a receipt for all of the expenses;
      (3)   A list of all prizes awarded during each bingo session, each
raffle, each punch board game and each game of chance conducted by the
charitable organization, the total prizes awarded from each game of instant
bingo by serial number and each electronic instant bingo game by serial number,
and the name, address and Social Security number of all persons who are winners
of prizes of $600 or more in value;
      (4)   An itemized list of the recipients of the net profit of bingo or
game of chance, including the name and address of each recipient to whom the
money is distributed, and if the organization uses the net profit of bingo, or
the money or assets received from a game of chance, for any charitable or other
purpose set forth in R.C. § 2915.01(V), R.C. § 2915.02(D) or R.C. § 2915.101, a
list of each purpose and an itemized list of each expenditure for each purpose;
      (5)   The number of persons who participate in any bingo session or game
of chance that is conducted by the charitable organization;
      (6)   A list of receipts from the sale of food and beverages by the
charitable organization or one of its auxiliary units or societies, if the
receipts were excluded from “gross receipts” under R.C. § 2915.01(T); and
      (7)   An itemized list of all expenses incurred at each bingo session,
each raffle, each punch board game or each game of instant bingo or electronic
instant bingo conducted by the charitable organization in the sale of food and
beverages by the charitable organization or by an auxiliary unit or society of
the charitable organization, the name of each person to whom the expenses are
paid, and a receipt for all of the expenses.
   (B)   A charitable organization shall keep the records that it is required
to maintain pursuant to division (A) above at its principal place of business
in this state or at its headquarters in this state and shall notify the
Attorney General of the location at which those records are kept.
   (C)   The gross profit from each bingo session or game described in division
(1) or (2) of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01 shall be deposited
into a checking account devoted exclusively to the bingo session or game.
Payments for allowable expenses incurred in conducting the bingo session or
game and payments to recipients of some or all of the net profit of the bingo
session or game shall be made only by checks or electronic fund transfers drawn
on the bingo session or game account.
   (D)   Each charitable organization shall conduct and record an inventory of
all of its bingo supplies as of the first day of November of each year.
   (E)   The Attorney General may adopt rules in accordance with R.C. Chapter
119 that establish standards of accounting, record keeping and reporting to
ensure that gross receipts from bingo or games of chance are properly accounted
for.
   (F)   A distributor shall maintain, for a period of three years after the
date of its sale or other provision, a record of each instance of its selling
or otherwise providing to another person bingo supplies for use in this state.
The record shall include all of the following for each instance:
      (1)   The name of the manufacturer from which the distributor purchased
the bingo supplies and the date of the purchase;
      (2)   The name and address of the charitable organization or other
distributor to which the bingo supplies were sold or otherwise provided;
      (3)   A description that clearly identifies the bingo supplies; and
      (4)   Invoices that include the nonrepeating serial numbers of all paper
bingo cards and sheets and all instant bingo deals sold or otherwise provided
to each charitable organization.
   (G)   A manufacturer shall maintain, for a period of three years after the
date of its sale or other provision, a record of each instance of its selling
or otherwise providing bingo supplies for use in this state. The record shall
include all of the following for each instance:
      (1)   The name and address of the distributor to whom the bingo supplies
were sold or otherwise provided;
      (2)   A description that clearly identifies the bingo supplies, including
serial numbers; and
      (3)   Invoices that include the nonrepeating serial numbers of all paper
bingo cards and sheets and all instant bingo deals sold or otherwise provided
to each distributor.
   (H)   (1)   The Attorney General or any law enforcement agency may do all of
the following:
         (a)   Investigate any charitable organization, distributor or
manufacturer or any officer, agent, trustee, member or employee of the
organization, distributor or manufacturer;
         (b)   Examine the accounts and records of the charitable organization,
distributor or manufacturer or of any officer, agent, trustee, member or
employee of the organization, distributor or manufacturer;
         (c)   Conduct inspections, audits and observations of bingo or games
of chance;
         (d)   Conduct inspections of the premises where bingo or games of
chance are conducted or where bingo supplies are manufactured or distributed;
and
         (e)   Take any other necessary and reasonable action to determine if a
violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 has occurred
and to determine whether R.C. § 2915.11, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, has been complied with.
      (2)   If any law enforcement agency has reasonable grounds to believe
that a charitable organization, distributor or manufacturer or an officer,
agent, trustee, member or employee of the organization, distributor or
manufacturer has violated any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915,
the law enforcement agency may proceed by action in the proper court to enforce
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915, provided that the law enforcement agency
shall give written notice to the Attorney General when commencing an action as
described in this division.
   (I)   No person shall destroy, alter, conceal, withhold or deny access to
any accounts or records of a charitable organization, distributor or
manufacturer that have been requested for examination, or obstruct, impede or
interfere with any inspection, audit or observation of bingo or a game of
chance, of premises where bingo or a game of chance is conducted, or of
premises where bingo supplies are manufactured or distributed, or refuse to
comply with any reasonable request of, or obstruct, impede, or interfere with
any other reasonable action undertaken by, the Attorney General or a law
enforcement agency pursuant to division (H) above.
   (J)   Whoever violates division (A) or (I) above is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2915.10)
§ 134.09 REQUIREMENTS FOR BINGO GAME OPERATORS.
   (A)   No person shall be a bingo game operator unless the person is 18 years
of age or older.
   (B)   No person who has been convicted of a felony or a gambling offense in
any jurisdiction shall be a bingo game operator.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) above is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (B) above is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 2915.11)
§ 134.10 BINGO GAMES FOR AMUSEMENT ONLY.
   (A)   Sections
134.05 through
134.12 and
134.14 do not apply to bingo games that are conducted for the purpose of
amusement only. A bingo game is conducted for the purpose of amusement only if
it complies with all of the requirements specified in either division (A)(1) or
(A)(2) below.
      (1)   (a)   The participants do not pay any money or any other thing of
value, including an admission fee or any fee, for bingo cards or sheets,
objects to cover the spaces or other devices used in playing bingo, for the
privilege of participating in the bingo game, or to defray any costs of the
game, or pay tips or make donations during or immediately before or after the
bingo game.
         (b)   All prizes awarded during the course of the game are non-
monetary, and in the form of merchandise, goods or entitlement to goods or
services only, and the total value of all prizes awarded during the game is
less than $100.
         (c)   No commission, wages, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity or
other form of compensation, either directly or indirectly, and regardless of
the source, is paid to any bingo game operator for work or labor performed at
the site of the bingo game.
         (d)   The bingo game is not conducted either during or within ten
hours of any of the following:
            1.   A bingo session during which a charitable bingo game is
conducted pursuant to R.C. §§ 2915.07 through 2915.11 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance; and
            2.   A scheme or game of chance, or bingo described in R.C. §
2915.01(O)(2).
         (e)   The number of players participating in the bingo game does not
exceed 50.
      (2)   (a)   The participants do not pay money or any other thing of value
as an admission fee, and no participant is charged more than $0.25 to purchase
a bingo card or sheet, objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in
playing bingo.
         (b)   The total amount of money paid by all of the participants for
bingo cards or sheets, objects to cover the spaces or other devices used in
playing bingo does not exceed $100.
         (c)   All of the money paid for bingo cards or sheets, objects to
cover spaces or other devices used in playing bingo is used only to pay winners
monetary and nonmonetary prizes and to provide refreshments.
         (d)   The total value of all prizes awarded during the game does not
exceed $100.
         (e)   No commission, wages, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity or
other form of compensation, either directly or indirectly, and regardless of
the source, is paid to any bingo game operator for work or labor performed at
the site of the bingo game.
         (f)   The bingo game is not conducted during or within ten hours of
either of the following:
            1.   A bingo session during which a charitable bingo game is
conducted pursuant to R.C. §§ 2915.07 through 2915.15 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance; and
            2.   A scheme of chance or a game of chance, or bingo described in
R.C. § 2915.01(O)(2).
         (g)   All of the participants reside at the premises where the bingo
game is conducted.
         (h)   The bingo games are conducted on different days of the week and
not more than twice in a calendar week.
   (B)   The Attorney General or any local law enforcement agency may
investigate the conduct of a bingo game that purportedly is conducted for
purposes of amusement only if there is reason to believe that the purported
amusement bingo game does not comply with the requirements of either division
(A)(1) or (A)(2) above. A local law enforcement agency may proceed by action in
the proper court to enforce this section if the local law enforcement agency
gives written notice to the Attorney General when commencing the action.
(R.C. § 2915.12)
§ 134.11 PROHIBITIONS WHERE INSTANT BINGO GAME IS CONDUCTED.
   (A)   No charitable organization that conducts instant bingo shall do any of
the following:
      (1)   Fail to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 2915.09(A)(1), (A)
(2) and (A)(3), or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   Conduct instant bingo unless either of the following applies:
         (a)   That organization is, and has received from the Internal Revenue
Service a determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the
organization is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a), is
described in IRC § 501(c)(3), is a charitable organization as defined in R.C. §
2915.01, is in good standing in the state pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08, and is in
compliance with R.C. Chapter 1716;
         (b)   That organization is, and has received from the Internal Revenue
Service a determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the
organization is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a), is
described in IRC § 501(c)(7), (c)(8), (c)(10) or (c)(19) or is a veteran’s
organization described in IRC § 501(c)(4), and conducts instant bingo under
R.C. § 2915.13.
      (3)   Conduct instant bingo on any day, at any time, or at any premises
not specified on the organization’s license issued pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08;
      (4)   Permit any person whom the organization knows or should have known
has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any jurisdiction to be a
bingo game operator in the conduct of instant bingo;
      (5)   Purchase or lease supplies used to conduct instant bingo or punch
board games from any person except a distributor licensed under R.C. §
2915.081;
      (6)   Sell or provide any instant bingo ticket or card for a price
different from the price printed on it by the manufacturer on either the
instant bingo ticket or card or on the game flare;
      (7)   Sell an instant bingo ticket or card to a person under 18 years of
age;
      (8)   Fail to keep unsold instant bingo tickets or cards for less than
three years;
      (9)   Pay any compensation to a bingo game operator for conducting
instant bingo that is conducted by the organization or for preparing, selling
or serving food or beverages at the site of the instant bingo game, permit any
auxiliary unit or society of the organization to pay compensation to any bingo
game operator who prepares, sells or serves food or beverages at an instant
bingo game conducted by the organization, or permit any auxiliary unit or
society of the organization to prepare, sell or serve food or beverages at an
instant bingo game conducted by the organization, if the auxiliary unit or
society pays any compensation to the bingo game operators who prepare, sell or
serve the food or beverages;
      (10)   Pay fees to any person for any services performed in relation to
an instant bingo game, except as provided in R.C. § 2915.093(D);
      (11)   Pay fees to any person who provides refreshments to the
participants in an instant bingo game;
      (12)   (a)   Allow instant bingo tickets or cards to be sold to bingo
game operators at a premises at which the organization sells instant bingo
tickets or cards or to be sold to employees of a D permit holder who are
working at a premises at which instant bingo tickets or cards are sold;
         (b)   Division (A)(12)(a) above does not prohibit a licensed
charitable organization or a bingo game operator from giving any person an
instant bingo ticket as a prize in place of a cash prize won by a participant
in an instant bingo game. In no case shall an instant bingo ticket or card be
sold or provided for a price different from the price printed on it by the
manufacturer on either the instant bingo ticket or card or on the game flare.
      (13)   Fail to display its bingo license, and the serial numbers of the
deal of instant bingo tickets or cards to be sold, conspicuously at each
premises at which it sells instant bingo tickets or cards;
      (14)   Possess a deal of instant bingo tickets or cards that was not
purchased from a distributor licensed under R.C. § 2915.081 as reflected on an
invoice issued by the distributor that contains all of the information required
by R.C. § 2915.10(E);
      (15)   Fail, once it opens a deal of instant bingo tickets or cards, to
continue to sell the tickets or cards in that deal until the tickets or cards
with the top two highest tiers of prizes in that deal are sold; and/or
      (16)   Possess bingo supplies that were not obtained in accordance with
R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (B)   A charitable organization may purchase, lease or use instant bingo
ticket dispensers to sell instant bingo tickets or cards.
   (C)   Pursuant to R.C. § 2915.091(C), the Attorney General may adopt rules
in accordance with R.C. Chapter 119 that govern the conduct of instant bingo by
charitable organizations.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) above or a rule adopted under division
(C) above is guilty of illegal instant bingo conduct. Except as otherwise
provided in this division, illegal instant bingo conduct is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation
of division (A) above or of such a rule adopted under division (C) above,
illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2915.091)
§ 134.12 RAFFLE DRAWINGS.
   (A)   (1)   Subject to division (A)(2) below, a person or entity that is
exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and is described in IRC
§§ 501(c)(3), 501(c)(4), 501(c)(6), 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10) or 501(c)
(19) may conduct a raffle to raise money for the person or entity and does not
need a license to conduct bingo in order to conduct a raffle drawing that is
not for profit.
      (2)   If a person or entity that is described in division (A)(1) above,
but that is not also described in IRC § 501(c)(3), conducts a raffle, the
person or entity shall distribute at least 50% of the net profit from the
raffle to a charitable purpose described in R.C. § 2915.01(V) or to a
department or agency of the federal government, the state, or any political
subdivision.
   (B)   A chamber of commerce may conduct not more than one raffle per year to
raise money for the chamber of commerce.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (A) or (B) above, no person shall
conduct a raffle drawing that is for profit or a raffle drawing that is not for
profit.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (C) above is guilty of illegal conduct of a
raffle. Except as otherwise provided in this division, illegal conduct of a
raffle is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a violation of division (C) above, illegal conduct of a
raffle is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.092)
§ 134.13 INSTANT BINGO OTHER THAN AT BINGO SESSIONS.
   (A)   As used in this section, RETAIL INCOME FROM ALL COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY
means the income that a person receives from the provision of goods, services
or activities that are provided at the location where instant bingo other than
at a bingo session is conducted, including the sale of instant bingo tickets. A
religious organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC §
501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3), at not more than one location at which
it conducts its charitable programs, may include donations from its members and
guests as retail income.
   (B)   (1)   If a charitable instant bingo organization conducts instant
bingo other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued under R.C.
§ 2915.08, the charitable instant bingo organization shall enter into a written
contract with the owner or lessor of the location at which the instant bingo is
conducted to allow the owner or lessor to assist in the conduct of instant
bingo other than at a bingo session, identify each location where the instant
bingo other than at a bingo session is being conducted, and identify the owner
or lessor of each location.
      (2)   A charitable instant bingo organization that conducts instant bingo
other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued under R.C. §
2915.08 is not required to enter into a written contract with the owner or
lessor of the location at which the instant bingo is conducted provided that
the owner or lessor is not assisting in the conduct of the instant bingo other
than at a bingo session and provided that the conduct of the instant bingo
other than at a bingo session at that location is not more than five days per
calendar year and not more than ten hours per day.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (F) below, no charitable instant bingo
organization shall conduct instant bingo other than at a bingo session at a
location where the primary source of retail income from all commercial activity
at that location is the sale of instant bingo tickets.
   (D)   (1)   (a)   The owner or lessor of a location that enters into a
contract pursuant to division (B) above shall pay the full gross profit to the
charitable instant bingo organization, in return for the deal of instant bingo
tickets.
         (b)   The owner or lessor may retain the money that the owner or
lessor receives for selling the instant bingo tickets; provided, however, that
after the deal has been sold, the owner or lessor shall pay to the charitable
instant bingo organization the value of any unredeemed instant bingo prizes
remaining in the deal of instant bingo tickets.
      (2)   The charitable instant bingo organization shall pay 6% of the total
gross receipts of any deal of instant bingo tickets for the purpose of
reimbursing the owner or lessor for expenses described in this division.
      (3)   As used in this division, EXPENSES means those items provided for
in R.C. § 2915.01(GG)(4), (GG)(5), (GG)(6), (GG)(7), (GG)(8), (GG)(12) and (GG)
(13) and that percentage of the owner’s or lessor’s rent for the location where
instant bingo is conducted. Expenses, in the aggregate, shall not exceed 6% of
the total gross receipts of any deal of instant bingo tickets.
      (4)   As used in this division, FULL GROSS PROFIT means the amount by
which the total receipts of all instant bingo tickets, if the deal has been
sold in full, exceeds the amount that would be paid out if all prizes were
redeemed.
   (E)   A charitable instant bingo organization shall provide the Attorney
General with all of the following information:
      (1)   That the charitable instant bingo organization has terminated a
contract entered into pursuant to division (B) above with an owner or lessor of
a location;
      (2)   That the charitable instant bingo organization has entered into a
written contract pursuant to division (B) above with a new owner or lessor of a
location; and
      (3)   That the charitable instant bingo organization is aware of conduct
by the owner or lessor of a location at which instant bingo is conducted that
is in violation of R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (F)   Division (C) above does not apply to a volunteer firefighter’s
organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and
described in IRC § 501(c)(3), that conducts instant bingo other than at a bingo
session on the premises where the organization conducts firefighter training,
that has conducted instant bingo continuously for at least five years prior to
July 1, 2003, and that, during each of those five years, had gross receipts of
at least $1,500,000.
(R.C. § 2915.093)
   (G)   (1)   Subject to the requirements of R.C. §§ 2915.14 and 2915.15
concerning electronic instant bingo, a veteran’s organization, a fraternal
organization or a sporting organization authorized to conduct a bingo session
pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2915 may conduct instant bingo, electronic instant
bingo or both other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued
under R.C. § 2915.08 if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The veteran’s organization, fraternal organization or sporting
organization limits the sale of instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to 12
hours during any day, provided that the sale does not begin earlier than 10:00
a.m. and ends not later than 2:00 a.m.;
         (b)   The veteran’s organization, fraternal organization or sporting
organization limits the sale of instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to
its own premises and to its own members and invited guests; and
         (c)   The veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization is raising money for an organization that is described in IRC §
509(a)(1), (a)(2) or (a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an
organization that maintains its principal place of business in this state, that
is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC
§ 501(c)(3), and that is in good standing in this state and executes a written
contract with that organization as required in division (G)(2) below.
      (2)   If a veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization authorized to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant bingo
pursuant to division (G)(1) above is raising money for another organization
that is described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2) or (a)(3) and is either a
governmental unit or an organization that maintains its principal place of
business in this state, that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC §
501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c), and that is in good standing in this
state, the veteran’s organization, fraternal organization or sporting
organization shall execute a written contract with the organization that is
described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2) or (a)(3) and is either a governmental
unit or an organization that maintains its principal place of business in this
state, that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and
described in IRC § 501(c), and that is in good standing in this state in order
to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant bingo. That contract shall
include a statement of the percentage of the net proceeds that the veteran’s,
fraternal or sporting organization will be distributing to the organization
that is described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2) or (a)(3) and is either a
governmental unit or an organization that maintains its principal place of
business in this state, that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC §
501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3), and that is in good standing in this
state.
      (3)   (a)   If a veteran’s organization, fraternal organization or
sporting organization authorized to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant
bingo pursuant to division (G)(1) of this section has been issued a liquor
permit under R.C. Chapter 4303, that permit may be subject to suspension,
revocation or cancellation if the veteran’s organization, fraternal
organization or sporting organization violates a provision of this chapter or
R.C. Chapter 2915.
         (b)   No veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization that enters into a written contract pursuant to division (G)(2)
above shall violate any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915, or
permit, aid or abet any other person in violating any provision of this chapter
or R.C. Chapter 2915.
      (4)   A veteran’s organization, fraternal organization or sporting
organization shall give all required proceeds earned from the conduct of
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to the organization with which the
veteran’s organization, fraternal organization or sporting organization has
entered into a written contract.
      (5)   Whoever violates this division (G) is guilty of illegal instant
bingo or electronic instant bingo conduct. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, illegal instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conduct is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of a violation of this division (G), illegal instant bingo or electronic
instant bingo conduct is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.13)
§ 134.14 RESTRICTIONS ON OWNER OR LESSOR OF LOCATION AT INSTANT BINGO.
   (A)   No owner or lessor of a location shall assist a charitable instant
bingo organization in the conduct of instant bingo other than at a bingo
session at that location unless the owner or lessor has entered into a written
contract, as described in R.C. § 2915.093, with the charitable instant bingo
organization to assist in the conduct of instant bingo other than at a bingo
session.
   (B)   The location of the lessor or owner shall be designated as a location
where the charitable instant bingo organization conducts instant bingo other
than at a bingo session.
   (C)   No owner or lessor of a location that enters into a written contract
as prescribed in division (A) above shall violate any provision of this chapter
or R.C. Chapter 2915, or permit, aid or abet any other person in violating any
provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (D)   No owner or lessor of a location that enters into a written contract
as prescribed in division (A) above shall violate the terms of the contract.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) above is guilty of illegal
instant bingo conduct. Except as otherwise provided in this division, illegal
instant bingo conduct is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of division (C) or (D) above,
illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law. If an owner or lessor of a location knowingly, intentionally or
recklessly violates division (C) or (D) above, any license that the owner or
lessor holds for the retail sale of any goods on the owner’s or lessor’s
premises that is issued by the state or a political subdivision is subject to
suspension, revocation, or payment of a monetary penalty at the request of the
Attorney General.
(R.C. § 2915.094)
§ 134.15 SKILL-BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINES; PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall give to another person any item described in division
(1), (2), (3) or (4) of the definition for MERCHANDISE PRIZE in §
134.01 in exchange for a noncash prize, toy or novelty received as a reward for
playing or operating a skill-based amusement machine or for a free or reduced-
price game won on a skill-based amusement machine.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) above is guilty of skill-based amusement
machine prohibited conduct. A violation of division (A) above is a misdemeanor
of the first degree for each redemption of a prize that is involved in the
violation. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of
division (A) above, a violation of that division is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.06)
   (C)   Any regulation of skill-based amusement machines shall be governed by
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 and not by R.C. Chapter 1345.
(R.C. § 2915.061)
§ 134.16 ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO; PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No charitable organization shall conduct electronic instant bingo
unless all of the following are true:
      (1)   The organization is a veteran’s organization described in R.C. §
2915.01(J), or is a fraternal organization described in R.C. § 2915.01(L), and
the organization qualified as a veteran’s organization or fraternal
organization, as applicable, on or before June 30, 2021;
      (2)   The organization is a veteran’s organization described in IRC § 501
(c)(4) or is, and has received from the Internal Revenue Service a
determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the organization
is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a), and is described in
IRC § 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10) or 501(c)(19); and
      (3)   The organization has not conducted a raffle in violation of R.C. §
2915.092(B) using an electronic raffle machine, as described in Ohio Veterans
and Fraternal Charitable Coalition v. DeWine, Case No. 13-CV-13610 (C.P.
Franklin Co. February 23, 2018), at any time on or after January 1, 2022.
   (B)   No charitable organization that conducts electronic instant bingo
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Possess an electronic instant bingo system that was not obtained in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 2915 or with any rule adopted under R.C. Chapter
2915;
      (2)   Conduct electronic instant bingo on any day, at any time, or on any
premises not specified on the organization’s type II or type III license issued
under R.C. § 2915.08;
      (3)   Hold more than one valid license to conduct electronic instant
bingo at any one time;
      (4)   Conduct electronic instant bingo on more than one premises or on
any premises other than the charitable organization’s principal place of
business;
      (5)   Operate more than ten electronic bingo systems at the premises on
which the charitable organization conducts electronic instant bingo under its
license;
      (6)   Fail to display both of the following conspicuously at the premises
on which the charitable organization conducts electronic instant bingo:
         (a)   The charitable organization’s bingo license; and
         (b)   The serial number of each deal of electronic instant bingo
tickets being sold.
      (7)   Permit any person the charitable organization knows, or should have
known, to be under 18 years of age to play electronic instant bingo;
      (8)   Sell or provide to any person an electronic instant bingo ticket
for a price different from the price displayed on the game flare for that deal,
except that the charitable organization may give a participant who wins an
electronic instant bingo game an electronic instant bingo ticket as a prize in
place of a cash prize;
      (9)   Fail, once an electronic instant bingo deal is begun, to continue
to sell tickets in that deal until all prizes have been awarded;
      (10)   Permit any person whom the organization knows, or should have
known, has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any jurisdiction
to be a bingo game operator in the conduct of electronic instant bingo;
      (11)   Permit a bingo game operator to play electronic instant bingo;
      (12)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(12)(b) below,
pay compensation to a bingo game operator for conducting electronic instant
bingo.
         (b)   Division (B)(12)(a) above does not prohibit an employee of a
veteran’s organization or fraternal organization from redeeming electronic
instant bingo tickets or vouchers for the organization’s members or invited
guests, so long as no portion of the employee’s compensation is paid from any
bingo receipts.
      (13)   Pay consulting fees to any person in relation to electronic
instant bingo.
   (C)   No person shall sell, offer to sell or otherwise provide or offer to
provide an electronic instant bingo system to any person for use in this
municipality unless the electronic instant bingo system has been approved under
R.C. § 2915.15.
   (D)   Whoever knowingly violates division (A), (B) or (C) above or a rule
adopted under R.C. § 2915.14(D) is guilty of illegal electronic instant bingo
conduct. Illegal electronic instant bingo conduct is a misdemeanor of the first
degree, except that if the offender previously has been convicted of a
violation of division (A) or (B) above, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance or state law, or of a rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.14(D),
illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2915.14)
CHAPTER 135: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
Section
   
135.01   Assault
   
135.02   Negligent assault
   
135.03   Aggravated menacing
   
135.04   Menacing
   
135.05   Definitions
   
135.06   Negligent homicide
   
135.07   Vehicular homicide; vehicular manslaughter; vehicular assault
   
135.08   Injury to persons by hunters
   
135.09   Unlawful collection of bodily substances
   
135.10   Bigamy
   
135.11   Unlawful abortion; failure to perform viability testing
   
135.12   Abortion trafficking
   
135.13   Nonsupport of dependents
   
135.14   Hazing prohibited
   
135.15   Contributing to unruliness or delinquency of a child
   
135.16   Failure to provide for functionally impaired person
   
135.17   Patient abuse or neglect; patient endangerment; exceptions; false
statements; retaliation
   
135.18   Interference with right of person to engage in housing transactions
because of race, religion or the like
   
135.19   Ethnic intimidation
   
135.20   Violating a protection order, consent agreement, anti-stalking
protection order or order issued by a court of another state
   
135.21   Adulteration of food
   
135.22   Illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products or
alternative nicotine products; transaction scans
   
135.23   Nonsmoking areas in places of public assembly
   
135.24   Spreading contagion
   
135.25   Abuse of a corpse
Statutory reference:
   Child care, misrepresentations by providers and failure to disclose death or
serious injuries, misdemeanors, see R.C. §§ 2919.223 et seq.
   Extortionate extension of credit, see R.C. §§ 2905.21 through 2905.24
   Failure to send child to school, see R.C. § 3321.38
   Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.15
   Reckless homicide, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.041
   Rights of victims of crimes, see R.C. Chapter 2930
§ 135.01 ASSAULT.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cause or attempt to cause physical harm to
another or to another’s unborn.
   (B)   No person shall recklessly cause serious physical harm to another or
to another’s unborn.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) or (B) above is guilty of assault.
Except as provided in R.C. § 2903.13(C), assault is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
   (D)   If an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to assault when it
is a misdemeanor also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a specification as
described in R.C. § 2941.1423 (victim of the offense was a woman whom the
defendant knew was pregnant at the time of the offense) that was included in
the indictment, count in the indictment or information charging the offense,
the court shall sentence the offender to a mandatory jail term as provided in
R.C. § 2929.24(G).
(R.C. § 2903.13) (Prior Code, § 9.02.01)
§ 135.02 NEGLIGENT ASSAULT.
   (A)   No person shall negligently, by means of a deadly weapon or dangerous
ordnance as defined in R.C. § 2923.11, cause physical harm to another or to
another’s unborn.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) above is guilty of negligent assault, a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 2903.14) (Prior Code, § 9.02.02)
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated and felonious assault, see R.C. §§ 2903.11 and 2903.12
   Felony offenses: assaulting functionally impaired person, peace officer,
investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation,
firefighter, person performing emergency medical service, officer or employee
of a public children services agency or private child placing agency; assault
at a correctional institution; assault on school officials and school bus
drivers; health care professional, worker or security guard at a hospital under
certain circumstances; judge, magistrate, prosecutor or court official or
employee under certain circumstances, see R.C. § 2903.13(C)
   Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.15
   Persons who may seek relief under anti-stalking protection order; ex parte
orders, see R.C. § 2903.214
   Protection order as pretrial condition of release, see R.C. § 2903.213
   Vehicular assault and aggravated vehicular assault, felony offenses, see
R.C. § 2903.08
§ 135.03 AGGRAVATED MENACING.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cause another to believe that the offender
will cause serious physical harm to the person or property of the other person,
such other person’s unborn, or a member of such other person’s immediate
family. In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief that the
offender will cause serious physical harm to the person or property of the
other person, the other person’s unborn or a member of the other person’s
immediate family, the other person’s belief may be based on words or conduct of
the offender that are directed at or identify a corporation, association or
other organization that employs the other person or to which the other person
belongs.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) above is guilty of aggravated menacing.
Except as otherwise provided in this division (B), aggravated menacing is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the victim of the offense is an officer or
employee of a public children services agency or a private child placing agency
and the offense relates to the officer’s or employee’s performance or
anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties, aggravated
menacing is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law or, if the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to an offense of
violence, the victim of that prior offense was an officer or employee of a
public children services agency or private child placing agency, and that prior
offense related to the officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated
performance of official responsibilities or duties, a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
   (C)   As used in this section, ORGANIZATION includes an entity that is a
governmental employer.
(R.C. § 2903.21) (Prior Code, § 9.02.03)
§ 135.04 MENACING.
   (A)   Menacing.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly cause another to believe that the
offender will cause physical harm to the person or property of the other
person, the other person’s unborn or a member of the other person’s immediate
family. In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief that the
offender will cause physical harm to the person or property of the other
person, the other person’s unborn or a member of the other person’s immediate
family, the other person’s belief may be based on words or conduct of the
offender that are directed at or identify a corporation, association or other
organization that employs the other person or to which the other person
belongs.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) above is guilty of menacing.
Except as otherwise provided in this division (A)(2), menacing is a misdemeanor
of the fourth degree. If the victim of the offense is an officer or employee of
a public children services agency or a private child placing agency and the
offense relates to the officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated
performance of official responsibilities or duties, menacing is a misdemeanor
of the first degree or, if the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to an offense of violence, the victim of that prior offense was
an officer or employee of a public children services agency or private child
placing agency, and that prior offense related to the officer’s or employee’s
performance or anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties,
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   As used in this division (A), ORGANIZATION includes an entity that
is a governmental employer.
(R.C. § 2903.22)
   (B)   Menacing by stalking.
      (1)   (a)   No person by engaging in a pattern of conduct shall knowingly
cause another person to believe that the offender will cause physical harm to
the other person or a family or household member of the other person or cause
mental distress to the other person or a family or household member of the
other person. In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief that
the offender will cause physical harm to the other person or the other person’s
family or household member or mental distress to the other person or the other
person’s family or household member, the other person’s belief or mental
distress may be based on words or conduct of the offender that are directed at
or identify a corporation, association or other organization that employs the
other person or to which the other person belongs.
         (b)   No person, through the use of any form of written communication
or any electronic method of remotely transferring information, including, but
not limited to, any computer, computer network, computer program, computer
system or telecommunication device, shall post a message or use any
intentionally written or verbal graphic gesture with purpose to do either of
the following:
            1.   Violate division (B)(1)(a) above; and
            2.   Urge or incite another to commit a violation of division (B)
(1)(a) above.
         (c)   No person, with a sexual motivation, shall violate division (B)
(1)(a) or (B)(1)(b) above.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) above is guilty of menacing by
stalking.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2)(b) below,
menacing by stalking is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   Menacing by stalking is a felony, to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law, if any of the following applies.
            1.   The offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 2903.211 or a violation of R.C. § 2911.211, or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to either of these offenses.
            2.   In committing the offense under division (B)(1)(a), (B)(1)(b)
or (B)(1)(c) above, the offender made a threat of physical harm to or against
the victim, or as a result of an offense committed under division (B)(1)(b) or
(B)(1)(c) above, a third person induced by the offender’s posted message made a
threat of physical harm to or against the victim.
            3.   In committing the offense under division (B)(1)(a), (B)(1)(b)
or (B)(1)(c) above, the offender trespassed on the land or premises where the
victim lives, is employed, or attends school, or as a result of an offense
committed under division (B)(1)(b) or (B)(1)(c) above, a third person induced
by the offender’s posted message trespassed on the land or premises where the
victim lives, is employed or attends school.
            4.   The victim of the offense is a minor.
            5.   The offender has a history of violence towards the victim or
any other person or a history of other violent acts towards the victim or any
other person.
            6.   While committing the offense under division (B)(1)(a) above or
a violation of division (B)(1)(c) above based on conduct in violation of
division (B)(1)(a) above, the offender had a deadly weapon on or about the
offender’s person or under the offender’s control. This division (B)(2)(b)6.
does not apply in determining the penalty for a violation of division (B)(1)(b)
above or a violation of division (B)(1)(c) above based on conduct in violation
of division (B)(1)(b) above.
            7.   At the time of the commission of the offense, the offender was
the subject of a protection order issued under R.C. § 2903.213 or R.C. §
2903.214, regardless of whether or not the person to be protected under the
order is the victim of the offense or another person.
            8.   In committing the offense under division (B)(1)(a), (B)(1)(b)
or (B)(1)(c) above, the offender caused serious physical harm to the premises
at which the victim resides, to the real property on which that premises is
located or to any personal property located on that premises, or as a result of
an offense committed under division (B)(1)(b) above or an offense committed
under division (B)(1)(c) above based on a violation of division (B)(1)(b)
above, a third person induced by the offender’s posted message caused serious
physical harm to that premises, that real property or any personal property on
that premises.
            9.   Prior to committing the offense, the offender had been
determined to represent a substantial risk of physical harm to others as
manifested by evidence of then-recent homicidal or other violent behavior,
evidence of then-recent threats that placed another in reasonable fear of
violent behavior and serious harm, or other evidence of then-present
dangerousness.
            10.   The victim of the offense is an officer or employee of a
public children services agency or a private child placing agency and the
offense relates to the officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated
performance of official responsibilities or duties.
            11.   The offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to an offense of violence, the victim of that prior offense was an
officer or employee of a public children services agency or private child
placing agency, and that prior offense related to the officer’s or employee’s
performance or anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties.
      (3)   R.C. § 2919.271 applies in relation to a defendant charged with a
violation of this section.
      (4)   As used in this division (B):
         COMPUTER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         COMPUTER NETWORK. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         COMPUTER PROGRAM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         COMPUTER SYSTEM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON. Is the singular of EMERGENCY FACILITY
PERSONNEL, as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
         EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON. Is the singular of EMERGENCY
MEDICAL SERVICES PERSONNEL, as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
         FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Any of the following:
            1.   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
person against whom the act prohibited in division (B)(1)(a) above is
committed:
               a.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse or a former spouse of
the person;
               b.   A parent, a foster parent or a child of the person or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the person; and
               c.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse
or former spouse of the person, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse or former spouse of the person.
            2.   The natural parent of any child of whom the person against
whom the act prohibited in division (B)(1)(a) above is committed is the other
natural parent or is the putative other natural parent.
         MENTAL DISTRESS. Any of the following:
            1.   Any mental illness or condition that involves some temporary
substantial incapacity; and/or
            2.   Any mental illness or condition that would normally require
psychiatric treatment, psychological treatment or other mental health services,
whether or not any person requested or received psychiatric treatment,
psychological treatment or other mental health services.
         ORGANIZATION. Includes an entity that is a governmental employer.
         PATTERN OF CONDUCT. Two or more actions or incidents closely related
in time, whether or not there has been a prior conviction based on any of those
actions or incidents, or two or more actions or incidents closely related in
time, whether or not there has been a prior conviction based on any of those
actions or incidents, directed at one or more persons employed by or belonging
to the same corporation, association, or other organization. Actions or
incidents that prevent, obstruct or delay the performance by a public official,
firefighter, rescuer, emergency medical services person or emergency facility
person of any authorized act within the public official’s, firefighter’s,
rescuer’s, emergency medical services person’s or emergency facility person’s
official capacity or the posting of messages, use of intentionally written or
verbal graphic gestures, or receipt of information or data through the use of
any form of written communication or an electronic method of remotely
transferring information, including, but not limited to, a computer, computer
network, computer program, computer system or telecommunications device, may
constitute a “pattern of conduct”.
         PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE. A person who is living or has lived with
the person against whom the act prohibited in division (B)(1)(a) above is
committed in a common law marital relationship, who otherwise is cohabiting
with that person, or who otherwise has cohabited with the person within five
years prior to the date of the alleged commission of the act in question.
         POST A MESSAGE. Transferring, sending, posting, publishing,
disseminating or otherwise communicating, or attempting to transfer, send,
post, publish, disseminate or otherwise communicate, any message or
information, whether truthful or untruthful, about an individual and whether
done under one’s own name, under the name of another or while impersonating
another.
         PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.01.
         SEXUAL MOTIVATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2971.01.
         TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         THIRD PERSON. Means, in relation to conduct as described in division
(B)(1)(b) above, an individual who is neither the offender nor the victim of
the conduct.
      (5)   The prosecution does not need to prove in a prosecution under this
division (B) that a person requested or received psychiatric treatment,
psychological treatment or other mental health services in order to show that
the person was caused mental distress as described in division (2) of the
definition for MENTAL DISTRESS in this section.
      (6)   (a)   1.   This division (B) does not apply to a person solely
because the person provided access or connection to or from an electronic
method of remotely transferring information not under that person’s control,
including having provided capabilities that are incidental to providing access
or connection to or from the electronic method of remotely transferring the
information, and that do not include the creation of the content of the
material that is the subject of the access or connection.
            2.   In addition, any person providing access or connection to or
from an electronic method of remotely transferring information not under that
person’s control shall not be liable for any action voluntarily taken in good
faith to block the receipt or transmission through its service of any
information that it believes is or will be sent in violation of this division
(B).
         (b)   Division (B)(6)(a) above does not create an affirmative duty for
any person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control to block the
receipt or transmission through its service of any information that it believes
is or will be sent in violation of this division (B) except as otherwise
provided by law.
         (c)   Division (B)(6)(a) above does not apply to a person who
conspires with a person actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of this division (B) or who knowingly
advertises the availability of material of that nature.
(R.C. § 2903.211) (Prior Code, § 9.02.04)
Cross-reference:
   Violation of protection orders, see §
135.20
Statutory reference:
   Authority of corporations to seek protection orders in certain
circumstances, see R.C. § 2903.215
   Conditions of bail for violators, see R.C. § 2903.212
   Persons who may seek relief under anti-stalking protection order; ex parte
orders, see R.C. § 2903.214
   Protection order as pretrial condition of release, see R.C. § 2903.213
§ 135.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of §§
135.01 through
135.06, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ANOTHER’S UNBORN or OTHER PERSON’S UNBORN. A member of the species Homo
sapiens who is or was carried in the womb of another during a period that
begins with fertilization and that continues unless and until live birth
occurs.
      UNLAWFUL TERMINATION OF ANOTHER’S PREGNANCY. Causing the death of an
unborn member of the species Homo sapiens who is or was carried in the womb of
another, as a result of injuries inflicted during the period that begins with
fertilization and that continues unless and until live birth occurs.
   (B)   Notwithstanding division (A) above, in no case shall the definitions
of the terms “another’s unborn”, “other person’s unborn” and “unlawful
termination of another’s pregnancy” that are set forth in division (A) above be
applied or construed in any of the following manners:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (B)(1), in a manner
so that the offense prohibits or is construed as prohibiting any pregnant woman
or her physician from performing an abortion with the consent of the pregnant
woman, with the consent of the pregnant woman implied by law in a medical
emergency, or with the approval of one otherwise authorized by law to consent
to medical treatment on behalf of the pregnant woman. An abortion that violates
the conditions described in the immediately preceding sentence may be punished
as any violation of R.C. §§ 2903.01, 2903.02, 2903.03, 2903.04, 2903.05,
2903.06, 2903.08, 2903.11, 2903.12, 2903.13, 2903.14, 2903.21 or 2903.22, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, as applicable. An abortion that
does not violate the conditions described in the second immediately preceding
sentence but that does violate R.C. §§ 2919.12, 2919.13(B), 2919.15, 2919.151,
2919.17 or 2919.18, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, may be
punished as a violation of such section, as applicable.
      (2)   In a manner so that the offense is applied or is construed as
applying to a woman based on an act or omission of the woman that occurs while
she is or was pregnant and that results in any of the following:
         (a)   Her delivery of a stillborn baby;
         (b)   Her causing, in any other manner, the death in utero of a
viable, unborn human that she is carrying;
         (c)   Her causing the death of her child who is born alive but who
dies from one or more injuries that are sustained while the child is a viable,
unborn human;
         (d)   Her causing her child who is born alive to sustain one or more
injuries while the child is a viable, unborn human; and
         (e)   Her causing, threatening to cause or attempting to cause, in any
other manner, an injury, illness or other psychological illness or condition,
regardless of its duration or gravity, to a viable, unborn human that she is
carrying.
(R.C. § 2903.09)
§ 135.06 NEGLIGENT HOMICIDE.
   (A)   No person shall negligently cause the death of another or the unlawful
termination of another’s pregnancy by means of a deadly weapon or dangerous
ordnance, as defined in R.C. § 2923.11.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of negligent homicide, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2903.05)
Statutory reference:
   Reckless homicide, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.041
§ 135.07 VEHICULAR HOMICIDE; VEHICULAR MANSLAUGHTER; VEHICULAR ASSAULT.
   (A)   No person, while operating or participating in the operation of a
motor vehicle, motorcycle, snowmobile, locomotive, watercraft or aircraft,
shall cause the death of another or the unlawful termination of another’s
pregnancy in any of the following ways:
      (1)   (a)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of R.C. §
4511.19(A) or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
         (b)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of R.C. §
1547.11(A), or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
         (c)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of R.C. §
4561.15(A)(3), or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   In one of the following ways:
         (a)   Recklessly; or
         (b)   As the proximate result of committing, while operating or
participating in the operation of a motor vehicle or motorcycle in a
construction zone, a reckless operation offense, provided that this division
applies only if the person whose death is caused or whose pregnancy is
unlawfully terminated is in the construction zone at the time of the offender’s
commission of the reckless operation offense in the construction zone and does
not apply as described in division (D) below.
      (3)   In one of the following ways:
         (a)   Negligently; or
         (b)   As the proximate result of committing, while operating or
participating in the operation of a motor vehicle or motorcycle in a
construction zone, a speeding offense, provided that this division applies only
if the person whose death is caused or whose pregnancy is unlawfully terminated
is in the construction zone at the time of the offender’s commission of the
speeding offense in the construction zone and does not apply as described in
division (D) below.
      (4)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of any provision
of any section contained in R.C. Title 45 that is a minor misdemeanor or of a
municipal ordinance that, regardless of the penalty set by ordinance for the
violation, is substantially equivalent to any provision of any section
contained in R.C. Title 45 that is a minor misdemeanor.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) or (A)(2) above is guilty of
aggravated vehicular homicide, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(3) above is guilty of vehicular
homicide. Except as otherwise provided in this division, vehicular homicide is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. Vehicular homicide committed in violation of
division (A)(3) above is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law
if, at the time of the offense, the offender was driving under a suspension or
cancellation imposed under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other provision of the Ohio
Revised Code or was operating a motor vehicle or motorcycle, did not have a
valid driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege, and was not
eligible for renewal of the offender’s driver’s license or commercial driver’s
license without examination under R.C. § 4507.10 or if the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section or any
traffic-related homicide, manslaughter or assault offense.
         (b)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed pursuant to this
division, the court shall impose upon the offender a class four suspension of
the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) above is guilty of vehicular
manslaughter. Except as otherwise provided in this division, vehicular
manslaughter is a misdemeanor of the second degree. Vehicular manslaughter is a
misdemeanor of the first degree if, at the time of the offense, the offender
was driving under a suspension or cancellation imposed under R.C. Chapter 4510
or any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code or was operating a motor
vehicle or motorcycle, did not have a valid driver’s license, commercial
driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license or
nonresident operating privilege, and was not eligible for renewal of the
offender’s driver’s license or commercial driver’s license without examination
under R.C. § 4507.10 or if the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to a violation of this section or any traffic-related homicide,
manslaughter or assault offense.
         (b)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed pursuant to this
division, the court shall impose upon the offender a class six suspension of
the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6) or, if the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section, any
traffic-related homicide, manslaughter or assault offense, or a traffic-related
murder, felonious assault or attempted murder offense, a class four suspension
of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
   (C)   The court shall impose a mandatory jail term of at least 15 days on an
offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor violation of
division (A)(3)(b) above and may impose upon the offender a longer jail term as
authorized pursuant to R.C. § 2929.24.
   (D)   Divisions (A)(2)(b) and (A)(3)(b) above do not apply in a particular
construction zone unless signs of the type described in R.C. § 2903.081 are
erected in that construction zone in accordance with the guidelines and design
specifications established by the Director of Transportation under R.C. §
5501.27. The failure to erect signs of the type described in R.C. § 2903.081 in
a particular construction zone in accordance with those guidelines and design
specifications does not limit or affect the application of division (A)(1), (A)
(2)(a), (A)(3)(a) or (A)(4) above in that construction zone or the prosecution
of any person who violates any of those divisions in that construction zone.
   (E)   (1)   As used in this section:
         CONSTRUCTION ZONE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5501.27.
         MANDATORY JAIL TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
         MANDATORY PRISON TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
         MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
         RECKLESS OPERATION OFFENSE. A violation of R.C. § 4511.20 or a
municipal ordinance substantially equivalent to R.C. § 4511.20.
         SPEEDING OFFENSE. A violation of R.C. § 4511.21 or a municipal
ordinance pertaining to speed.
         TRAFFIC-RELATED HOMICIDE, MANSLAUGHTER or ASSAULT OFFENSE. A violation
of R.C. § 2903.04 in circumstances in which division (D) of that section
applies, a violation of R.C. § 2903.06 or 2903.08, or a violation of R.C. §§
2903.06, 2903.07 or 2903.08 as they existed prior to March 23, 2000.
         TRAFFIC-RELATED MURDER, FELONIOUS ASSAULT, OR ATTEMPTED MURDER
OFFENSE. A violation of R.C. § 2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02 in circumstances in
which the offender used a motor vehicle as the means to commit the violation, a
violation of R.C. § 2903.11(A)(2) in circumstances in which the deadly weapon
used in the commission of the violation is a motor vehicle, or an attempt to
commit aggravated murder or murder in violation of R.C. § 2923.02 in
circumstances in which the offender used a motor vehicle as the means to
attempt to commit the aggravated murder or murder.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, when a penalty or suspension is
enhanced because of a prior or current violation of a specified law or a prior
or current specified offense, the reference to the violation of the specified
law or the specified offense includes any violation of any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, former law of this state, or current or former
law of this or another state or the United States.
(R.C. § 2903.06)
   (F)   Vehicular assault.
      (1)   No person, while operating or participating in the operation of a
motor vehicle or motorcycle, shall cause serious physical harm to another
person or another’s unborn as the proximate result of committing, while
operating or participating in the operation of a motor vehicle or motorcycle in
a construction zone, a speeding offense, provided that this division applies
only if the person to whom the serious physical harm is caused or to whose
unborn the serious physical harm is caused is in the construction zone at the
time of the offender’s commission of the speeding offense in the construction
zone and does not apply as described in division (F)(4) below.
      (2)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, vehicular
assault committed in violation of division (F)(1) above is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. Vehicular assault committed in violation of division (F)(1) above
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law if, at the time of the
offense, the offender was driving under a suspension imposed under R.C. Chapter
4510 or any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code or if the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division
(F)(1) above, R.C. § 2903.08 or any traffic-related homicide, manslaughter or
assault offense.
         (b)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed, the court shall
impose upon the offender a class four suspension of the offender’s driver’s
license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit,
probationary license or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
      (3)   The court shall impose a mandatory jail term of at least seven days
on an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor violation
of division (F)(1) above and may impose upon the offender a longer jail term as
authorized pursuant to R.C. § 2929.24.
      (4)   Division (F)(1) above does not apply in a particular construction
zone unless signs of the type described in R.C. § 2903.081 are erected in that
construction zone in accordance with the guidelines and design specifications
established by the Director of Transportation under R.C. § 5501.27.
      (5)   As used in this division (F):
         CONSTRUCTION ZONE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5501.27.
         MANDATORY JAIL TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
         SPEEDING OFFENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.06.
         TRAFFIC-RELATED HOMICIDE, MANSLAUGHTER, OR ASSAULT OFFENSE. Has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.06.
      (6)   For the purposes of this division (F), when a penalty or suspension
is enhanced because of a prior or current violation of a specified law or a
prior or current specified offense, the reference to the violation of the
specified law or the specified offense includes any violation of any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, former law of this state, or
current or former law of another state or the United States.
(R.C. 2903.08(A)(3), (C)(3), (D)(3), (E) - (G))
Statutory reference:
   Court to suspend driver’s license, see R.C. §§ 4510.05 and 4510.07
   Vehicular assault and aggravated vehicular assault, felony offenses, see
R.C. § 2903.08
§ 135.08 INJURY TO PERSONS BY HUNTERS.
   (A)   No person in the act of hunting, pursuing, taking or killing a wild
animal shall act in a negligent, careless or reckless manner so as to injure
persons.
(R.C. § 1533.171(A))
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 1533.99(C))
Statutory reference:
   Violation, license revocation, see R.C. § 1533.171(B) through (E)
§ 135.09 UNLAWFUL COLLECTION OF BODILY SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly collect any blood, urine, tissue or other
bodily substance of another person without privilege or consent to do so.
   (B)   (1)   Division (A) above does not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   The collection of any bodily substance of a person by a law
enforcement officer, or by another person pursuant to the direction or advice
of a law enforcement officer, for purposes of a chemical test or tests of the
substance under R.C. § 1547.111(A)(1) or R.C. § 4511.191(A)(2) to determine the
alcohol, drug, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance or
combination content of the bodily substance;
         (b)   The collection of any bodily substance of a person by a peace
officer, or by another person pursuant to the direction or advice of a peace
officer, for purposes of a test or tests of the substance as provided in R.C. §
4506.17(A) to determine the person’s alcohol concentration or the presence of
any controlled substance or metabolite of a controlled substance.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) above shall not be construed as implying that the
persons identified in divisions (B)(1)(a) and (B)(1)(b) above do not have
privilege to collect the bodily substance of another person as described in
those divisions or as limiting the definition of “privilege” set forth in R.C.
§ 2901.01.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) above is guilty of unlawful collection
of a bodily substance. Except as otherwise provided in this division, unlawful
collection of a bodily substance is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of
division (A) above or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, unlawful collection of a bodily substance is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.15)
§ 135.10 BIGAMY.
   (A)   No married person shall marry another or continue to cohabit with such
other person in this municipality.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that the
actor’s spouse was continuously absent for five years immediately preceding the
purported subsequent marriage, and was not known by the actor to be alive
within that time.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of bigamy, a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
(R.C. § 2919.01)
§ 135.11 UNLAWFUL ABORTION; FAILURE TO PERFORM VIABILITY TESTING.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ABORTION. The purposeful termination of a human pregnancy by any person,
including the pregnant woman herself, with an intention other than to produce a
live birth or to remove a dead fetus or embryo.
(R.C. § 2919.11)
      EMANCIPATED. A minor shall be considered emancipated if the minor has
married, entered the armed services of the United States, become employed and
self-subsisting or has otherwise become independent from the care and control
of her parent, guardian or custodian.
      UNEMANCIPATED. A woman who is unmarried and under 18 years of age who has
not entered the armed services of the United States, has not become employed
and self-subsisting or has not otherwise become independent from the care and
control of her parent, guardian or custodian.
   (B)   No person shall perform or induce an abortion without the informed
consent of the pregnant woman.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly perform or induce an abortion upon a
pregnant minor unless one of the following is the case:
      (1)   The attending physician has secured the informed written consent of
the minor and one parent, guardian or custodian;
      (2)   The minor is emancipated and the attending physician has received
her informed written consent;
      (3)   The minor has been authorized to consent to the abortion by a court
order issued pursuant to R.C. § 2919.121(C) and the attending physician has
received her informed written consent; or
      (4)    The court has given its consent in accordance with R.C. § 2919.121
(C) and the minor is having the abortion willingly.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly perform or induce an abortion upon a woman
who is pregnant, unmarried, under 18 years of age, and unemancipated unless at
least one of the circumstances enumerated in R.C. § 2919.12(B) applies.
   (E)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (D)
above that the pregnant woman provided the person who performed or induced the
abortion with false, misleading or incorrect information about her age, marital
status or emancipation, about the age of the brother or sister to whom she
requested notice to be given as a specified relative instead of one of her
parents, her guardian or her custodian, or about the last known address of
either of her parents, her guardian, her custodian or a specified brother,
sister, stepparent or grandparent to whom she requested notice be given and the
person who performed or induced the abortion did not otherwise have reasonable
cause to believe the pregnant woman was under 18 years of age, unmarried or
unemancipated, to believe that the age of the brother or sister to whom she
requested notice be given as a specified relative instead of one of her
parents, her guardian or her custodian was not 21 years of age, or to believe
that the last known address of either of her parents, her guardian, her
custodian or a specified brother, sister, stepparent or grandparent to whom she
requested notice be given was incorrect.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that
compliance with the requirements of this section was not possible because an
immediate threat of serious risk to the life or physical health of the pregnant
woman or pregnant minor from the continuation of her pregnancy created an
emergency necessitating the immediate performance or inducement of an abortion.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful abortion. A
violation of division (B), (C) or (D) above is a misdemeanor of the first
degree on the first offense and a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law on each subsequent offense.
   (G)   Whoever violates this section is liable to the pregnant woman or
pregnant minor, and her parents, guardian or custodian for civil, compensatory
and exemplary damages.
(R.C. §§ 2919.12, 2919.121)
   (H)   (1)   Division (C) above applies in lieu of division (D) above
whenever its operation is not enjoined. If division (C) above is enjoined,
division (D) above applies.
      (2)   If a person complies with the requirements of division (D) above
under the good faith belief that the application or enforcement of division (C)
above is subject to a restraining order or injunction, good faith compliance
shall constitute a complete defense to any civil, criminal or professional
disciplinary action brought under division (C) above or R.C. § 2919.121.
      (3)   If a person complies with the requirements of division (C) above
under the good faith belief that it is not subject to a restraining order or
injunction, good faith compliance shall constitute a complete defense to any
civil, criminal or professional disciplinary action for failure to comply with
the requirements of division (D) above.
(R.C. § 2919.122)
   (I)   Failure to perform viability testing.
      (1)   Except in a medical emergency that prevents compliance with this
division, no physician shall perform or induce or attempt to perform or induce
an abortion on a pregnant woman after the beginning of the twentieth week of
gestation unless, prior to the performance or inducement of the abortion or the
attempt to perform or induce the abortion, the physician determines, in the
physician’s good faith medical judgment, that the unborn child is not viable,
and the physician makes that determination after performing a medical
examination of the pregnant woman and after performing or causing to be
performed those tests for assessing gestational age, weight, lung maturity or
other tests that the physician, in that physician’s good faith medical
judgment, believes are necessary to determine whether an unborn child is
viable.
      (2)   Except in a medical emergency that prevents compliance with this
division, no physician shall perform or induce or attempt to perform or induce
an abortion on a pregnant woman after the beginning of the twentieth week of
gestation without first entering the determination made in division (I)(1)
above and the associated findings of the medical examination and tests in the
medical record of the pregnant woman.
      (3)   Whoever violates this division (I) is guilty of failure to perform
viability testing, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (4)   The State Medical Board shall suspend a physician’s license to
practice medicine in this state for a period of not less than six months if the
physician violates this section.
(R.C. § 2919.18)
Statutory reference:
   Judicial bypass, see R.C. § 2151.85
   Judicial consent and the right of a minor to consent, see R.C. § 2919.121(C)
   Notice or consent requirements for unmarried minors, see R.C. § 2919.12(B)
§ 135.12 ABORTION TRAFFICKING.
   No person shall experiment upon or sell the product of human conception
which is aborted. Experiment does not include autopsies pursuant to R.C. §§
313.13 and 2108.50. Whoever violates this section is guilty of abortion
trafficking, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2919.14)
§ 135.13 NONSUPPORT OF DEPENDENTS.
   (A)   No person shall abandon, or fail to provide adequate support to:
      (1)   His or her spouse, as required by law;
      (2)   His or her legitimate or illegitimate child who is under age 18, or
mentally or physically disabled child who is under age 21; and/or
      (3)   His or her aged or infirm parent or adoptive parent, who from lack
of ability and means is unable to provide adequately for his or her own
support.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall abandon, or fail to provide support as
established by a court order to, another person whom, by court order or decree,
the person:
         (a)   Is legally obligated to support; or
         (b)   Was legally obligated to support, and an amount for support:
            1.   Was due and owing prior to the date the person’s duty to pay
current support terminated; and
            2.   Remains unpaid.
      (2)   The period of limitation under R.C. § 2901.13 applicable to
division (B)(1)(b) above shall begin to run on the date the person’s duty to
pay current support terminates.
   (C)   No person shall aid, abet, induce, cause, encourage or contribute to a
child or a ward of the juvenile court becoming a dependent child, as defined in
R.C. § 2151.04, or a neglected child, as defined in R.C. § 2151.03.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of failure to provide
adequate support under division (A) above or a charge of failure to provide
support established by a court order under division (B) above that the accused
was unable to provide adequate support or the established support, but did
provide the support that was within his or her ability and means.
   (E)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(3) above
that the parent abandoned the accused, or failed to support the accused as
required by law, while the accused was under age 18, or was mentally or
physically disabled and under age 21.
   (F)   It is not a defense to a charge under division (B) above that the
person whom a court has ordered the accused to support is being adequately
supported by someone other than the accused.
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) or (B) above is guilty of nonsupport of dependents, a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to a violation of division (A)(2) or (B) above or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or if the offender
has failed to provide support under division (A)(2) or (B) above for a total
accumulated period of 26 weeks out of 104 consecutive weeks, whether or not the
26 weeks were consecutive, then a violation of division (A)(2) or (B) above is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a felony violation of
this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (A)(2) or (B) above is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the offender is guilty of nonsupport of dependents by reason of
failing to provide support to his or her child as required by a child support
order issued on or after April 15, 1985, pursuant to R.C. §§ 2151.23, 2151.231,
2151.232, 2151.33, 3105.21, 3109.05, 3111.13, 3113.04, 3113.31, 3115.401 or
former R.C. § 3115.31, the court, in addition to any other sentence imposed,
shall assess all court costs arising out of the charge against the person and
require the person to pay any reasonable attorney’s fees of any adverse party
other than the state, as determined by the court, that arose in relation to the
charge.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C) above is guilty of contributing to
the nonsupport of dependents, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each day of a
violation of division (C) above is a separate offense.
(R.C. § 2919.21)
§ 135.14 HAZING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      HAZING. Means doing any act or coercing another, including the victim, to
do any act of initiation into any student or other organization or any act to
continue or reinstate membership in or affiliation with any student or other
organization that causes or creates a substantial risk of causing mental or
physical harm to any person, including coercing another to consume alcohol or a
drug of abuse, as defined in R.C. § 3719.011.
      ORGANIZATION. Includes a national or international organization with
which a fraternity or sorority is affiliated.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall recklessly participate in the hazing of another.
      (2)   No administrator, employee, faculty member, teacher, consultant,
alumnus, or volunteer of any organization, including any primary, secondary, or
post-secondary school or any other educational institution, public or private,
shall recklessly permit the hazing of any person associated with the
organization.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall recklessly participate in the hazing of another
when the hazing includes coerced consumption of alcohol or drugs of abuse
resulting in serious physical harm to the other person.
      (2)   No administrator, employee, faculty member, teacher, consultant,
alumnus, or volunteer of any organization, including any primary, secondary, or
post-secondary school or any other educational institution, public or private,
shall recklessly permit the hazing of any person associated with the
organization when the hazing includes coerced consumption of alcohol or drugs
of abuse resulting in serious physical harm to that person.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates divisions (B) or (C) of this section is guilty
of hazing. A violation of division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (2)   A violation of division (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.31)
   (E)   Reckless failure to immediately report knowledge of hazing.
      (1)   No administrator, employee, faculty member, teacher, consultant,
alumnus, or volunteer of any organization, including any primary, secondary, or
post-secondary school or any other public or private educational institution,
who is acting in an official and professional capacity shall recklessly fail to
immediately report the knowledge of hazing to a law enforcement agency in the
county in which the victim of hazing resides or in which the hazing is
occurring or has occurred.
      (2)   A violation of division (E)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree, except that the violation is a misdemeanor of the first
degree if the hazing causes serious physical harm.
(R.C. § 2903.311(B), (C))
Statutory reference:
   Civil liability for hazing, see R.C. § 2307.44
§ 135.15 CONTRIBUTING TO UNRULINESS OR DELINQUENCY OF A CHILD.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      DELINQUENT CHILD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2152.02.
      UNRULY CHILD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2151.022.
   (B)   No person, including a parent, guardian or other custodian of a child,
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Aid, abet, induce, cause, encourage or contribute to a child or a
ward of the juvenile court becoming an unruly child or a delinquent child;
      (2)   Act in a way tending to cause a child or a ward of the juvenile
court to become an unruly child or a delinquent child;
      (3)   Act in a way that contributes to an adjudication of the child as a
delinquent child based on the child’s violation of a court order adjudicating
the child an unruly child for being an habitual truant; or
      (4)   If the person is the parent, guardian or custodian of a child who
has the duties under R.C. Chapters 2152 and 2950 to register, register a new
residence address, and periodically verify a residence address, and, if
applicable, to send a notice of intent to reside, and if the child is not
emancipated, as defined in R.C. § 2919.121, fail to ensure that the child
complies with those duties under R.C. Chapters 2152 and 2950.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of contributing to the
unruliness or delinquency of a child, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each
day of violation of this section is a separate offense.
(R.C. § 2919.24)
Statutory reference:
   Failure to send child to school, see R.C. § 3321.38
§ 135.16 FAILURE TO PROVIDE FOR FUNCTIONALLY IMPAIRED PERSON.
   (A)   No caretaker shall knowingly fail to provide a functionally impaired
person under his or her care with any treatment, care, goods or service that is
necessary to maintain the health or safety of the functionally impaired person
when this failure results in physical harm or serious physical harm to the
functionally impaired person.
   (B)   No caretaker shall recklessly fail to provide a functionally impaired
person under his or her care with any treatment, care, goods or service that is
necessary to maintain the health or safety of the functionally impaired person
when this failure results in serious physical harm to the functionally impaired
person.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) above is guilty of knowingly
failing to provide for a functionally impaired person, a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the functionally impaired person under the offender’s care
suffers serious physical harm as a result of the violation of this section, a
violation of division (A) above is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) above is guilty of recklessly failing
to provide for a functionally impaired person, a misdemeanor of the second
degree. If the functionally impaired person under the offender’s care suffers
serious physical harm as a result of the violation of this section, a violation
of division (B) above is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.16)
   (D)   As used in this section:
      CARETAKER. A person who assumes the duty to provide for the care and
protection of a functionally impaired person on a voluntary basis, by contract,
through receipt of payment for care and protection, as a result of a family
relationship, or by order of a court of competent jurisdiction. The term does
not include a person who owns, operates or administers, or who is an agent or
employee of, a care facility, as defined in R.C. § 2903.33.
      FUNCTIONALLY IMPAIRED PERSON. Any person who has a physical or mental
impairment that prevents the person from providing for his or her own care or
protection or whose infirmities caused by aging prevent the person from
providing for his or her own care or protection.
(R.C. § 2903.10)
§ 135.17 PATIENT ABUSE OR NEGLECT; PATIENT ENDANGERMENT; EXCEPTIONS; FALSE
STATEMENTS; RETALIATION.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      ABUSE. Knowingly causing physical harm or recklessly causing serious
physical harm to a person by physical contact with the person or by the
inappropriate use of a physical or chemical restraint, medication or isolation
on the person.
      CARE FACILITY. Any of the following:
         (a)   Any HOME as defined in R.C. § 3721.10;
         (b)   Any RESIDENTIAL FACILITY as defined in R.C. § 5119.34 or
5123.19;
         (c)   Any institution or facility operated or provided by the
Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services or by the Department of
Developmental Disabilities pursuant to R.C. §§ 5119.14 and 5123.03;
         (d)   Any unit of any hospital, as defined in R.C. § 3701.01, that
provided the same services as a nursing home, as defined in R.C. § 3721.01; or
         (e)   Any institution, residence or facility that provides, for a
period of more than 24 hours, whether for consideration or not, accommodations
to one individual or two unrelated individuals who are dependent upon the
services of others.
      GROSS NEGLECT. Knowingly failing to provide a person with any treatment,
care, goods or service that is necessary to maintain the health or safety of
the person when the failure results in serious physical harm to the person.
      INAPPROPRIATE USE OF A PHYSICAL OR CHEMICAL RESTRAINT, MEDICATION OR
ISOLATION. The use of physical or chemical restraint, medication or isolation
as punishment, for staff convenience, excessively, as a substitute for
treatment, or in quantities that preclude habilitation and treatment.
      NEGLECT. Recklessly failing to provide a person with any treatment, care,
goods or service that is necessary to maintain the health or safety of the
person when the failure results in serious physical harm to the person.
(R.C. § 2903.33)
   (B)   Patient abuse or neglect; spiritual treatment; defense.
      (1)   No person who owns, operates or administers, or who is an agent or
employee of a care facility shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Commit abuse against a resident or patient of the facility;
         (b)   Commit gross neglect against a resident or patient of the
facility; or
         (c)   Commit neglect against a resident or patient of the facility.
      (2)   (a)   A person who relies upon treatment by spiritual means through
prayer alone, in accordance with the tenets of a recognized religious
denomination, shall not be considered neglectful under division (B)(1)(c) above
for that reason alone.
         (b)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of gross neglect or
neglect under this section that the actor’s conduct was committed in good faith
solely because the actor was ordered to commit the conduct by a person with
supervisory authority over the actor.
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(a) above is guilty of
patient abuse, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (b)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(b) above is guilty of gross
patient neglect, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously
has been convicted of, or pleaded guilty to, any violation of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, gross patient
neglect is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(c) above is guilty of patient
neglect, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of, or pleaded guilty to, any violation of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, gross patient
neglect is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.34)
   (C)   Patient endangerment; spiritual treatment; defense.
      (1)   As used in this section:
         DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES CARETAKER. Any developmental disabilities
employee or any person who assumes the duty to provide for the care and
protection of a person with a developmental disability on a voluntary basis, by
contract, through receipt of payment for care and protection, as a result of a
family relationship, or by order of a court of competent jurisdiction. The
phrase includes a person who is an employee of a care facility and a person who
is an employee of an entity under contract with a provider. The phrase does not
include a person who owns, operates or administers a care facility or who is an
agent of a care facility unless that person also personally provides care to a
person with a developmental disability.
         DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES EMPLOYEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5123.50.
         DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5123.01.
      (2)   No developmental disabilities caretaker shall create a substantial
risk to the health or safety of a person with a developmental disability. A
developmental disabilities caretaker does not create a substantial risk to the
health or safety of a person with a developmental disability under this
division when the developmental disabilities caretaker treats a physical or
mental illness or defect of the person with a developmental disability by
spiritual means through prayer alone, in accordance with the tenets of a
recognized religious body.
      (3)   No person who owns, operates or administers a care facility or who
is an agent of a care facility shall condone, or knowingly permit, any conduct
by a developmental disabilities caretaker who is employed by or under the
control of the owner, operator, administrator or agent that is in violation of
division (C)(2) above and that involves a person with a developmental
disability who is under the care of the owner, operator, administrator or
agent. A person who relies upon treatment by spiritual means through prayer
alone, in accordance with the tenets of a recognized religious denomination,
shall not be considered endangered under this division for that reason alone.
      (4)   (a)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of
division (C)(2) or (C)(3) above that the actor’s conduct was committed in good
faith solely because the actor was ordered to commit the conduct by a person to
whom one of the following applies:
            1.   The person has supervisory authority over the actor; or
            2.   The person has authority over the actor’s conduct pursuant to
a contract for the provision of services.
         (b)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of
division (C)(3) above that the person who owns, operates or administers a care
facility or who is an agent of a care facility and who is charged with the
violation is following the individual service plan for the involved person with
a developmental disability or that the admission, discharge and transfer rule
set forth in the Ohio Administrative Code is being followed.
         (c)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of
division (C)(3) above that the actor did not have readily available a means to
prevent either the harm to the person with a developmental disability or the
death of such a person and the actor took reasonable steps to summon aid.
      (5)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(5)(b) or (C)(5)(c) below,
whoever violates division (C)(2) or (C)(3) above is guilty of patient
endangerment, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of, or pleaded
guilty to, a violation of this section, patient endangerment is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the person
with a developmental disability, patient endangerment is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.341)
   (D)   False statements.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement, or knowingly
swear or affirm the truth of a false statement previously made, alleging a
violation of division (B) above when the statement is made with purpose to
incriminate another.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (D) is guilty of filing a false
patient abuse or neglect complaint, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2903.35)
   (E)   Retaliation against person reporting patient abuse or neglect. No care
facility shall discharge or in any manner discriminate or retaliate against any
person solely because such person, in good faith, filed a complaint, affidavit
or other document alleging a violation of division (B) above or a violation of
R.C. § 2903.34.
(R.C. § 2903.36)
Statutory reference:
   License revocation for felony violations, see R.C. § 2903.37
§ 135.18 INTERFERENCE WITH RIGHT OF PERSON TO ENGAGE IN HOUSING TRANSACTIONS
BECAUSE OF RACE, RELIGION OR THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person, whether or not acting under color of law, shall by force or
threat of force willfully injure, intimidate or interfere with, or attempt to
injure, intimidate or interfere with, any of the following:
      (1)   Any person because of race; color; religion; sex; familial status,
as defined in R.C. § 4112.01; national origin; military status, as defined in
that section; disability, as defined in that section, or ancestry and because
that person is or has been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying,
contracting or negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or
occupation of any housing accommodations, or applying for or participating in
any service, organization or facility relating to the business of selling or
renting housing accommodations;
      (2)   Any person because that person is or has been doing, or in order to
intimidate that person or any other person or any class of persons from doing
either of the following:
         (a)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race; color;
religion; sex; familial status, as defined in R.C. § 4112.01; national origin;
military status, as defined in that section; disability, as defined in that
section; or ancestry, in any of the activities, services, organizations or
facilities described in division (A)(1) above;
         (b)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
      (3)   Any person because that person is or has been, or in order to
discourage that person or any other person from, lawfully aiding or encouraging
other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of race; color;
religion; sex; familial status, as defined in R.C. § 4112.01; national origin;
military status, as defined in that section; disability, as defined in that
section; or ancestry, in any of the activities, services, organizations or
facilities described in division (A)(1) above, or participating lawfully in
speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of the opportunity to so
participate.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) above is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 2927.03)
§ 135.19 ETHNIC INTIMIDATION.
   (A)   No person shall violate R.C. §§ 2903.21, 2903.22, 2909.06 or 2909.07,
or R.C. § 2917.21(A)(3), (A)(4) or (A)(5), by reason of the race, color,
religion, or national origin of another person or group of persons.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of ethnic intimidation. Ethnic
intimidation is an offense of the next higher degree than the offense the
commission of which is a necessary element of ethnic intimidation. In the case
of an offense that is a misdemeanor of the first degree, ethnic intimidation is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.12)
§ 135.20 VIOLATING A PROTECTION ORDER, CONSENT AGREEMENT, ANTI-STALKING
PROTECTION ORDER OR ORDER ISSUED BY A COURT OF ANOTHER STATE.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly violate the terms of any of the following:
      (1)   A protection order issued or consent agreement approved pursuant to
R.C. § 2919.26 or R.C. § 3113.31;
      (2)   A protection order issued pursuant to R.C. §§ 2151.34, 2903.213 or
2903.214; and
      (3)   A protection order issued by a court of another state.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of violating a
protection order.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(3) or (B)(4) below,
violating a protection order is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   Violating a protection order is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the offender previously has been convicted of, pleaded
guilty to or been adjudicated a delinquent child for any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of a protection order issued or consent agreement
approved pursuant to R.C. §§ 2151.34, 2903.213, 2903.214, 2919.26 or 3113.31,
or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance;
         (b)   Two or more violations of R.C. §§ 2903.21, 2903.211, 2903.22 or
2911.211, or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or
any combination of those offenses, that involved the same person who is the
subject of the protection order or consent agreement; and
         (c)   One or more violations of this section, or any substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance.
      (4)   If the offender violates a protection order or consent agreement
while committing a felony offense, violating a protection order is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   (a)   If the protection order violated by the offender was an order
issued pursuant to R.C. §§ 2151.34 or 2903.214 that required electronic
monitoring of the offender pursuant to that section, the court may require in
addition to any other sentence imposed upon the offender that the offender be
electronically monitored for a period not exceeding five years by a law
enforcement agency designated by the court.
         (b)   If the court requires under this division that the offender be
electronically monitored, unless the court determines that the offender is
indigent, the court shall order that the offender pay the costs of the
installation of the electronic monitoring device and the cost of monitoring the
electronic monitoring device.
         (c)   If the court determines that the offender is indigent and
subject to the maximum amount allowable and the rules promulgated by the
Attorney General under R.C. § 2903.214, the costs of the installation of the
electronic monitoring device and the cost of monitoring the electronic
monitoring device may be paid out of funds from the Reparations Fund created
pursuant to R.C. § 2743.191. The total amount paid from the Reparations Fund
created pursuant to R.C. § 2743.191 for electronic monitoring under R.C. §§
2151.34, 2903.214 and 2919.27 shall not exceed $300,000 per year.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(3) above
that the protection order issued by a court of another state does not comply
with the requirements specified in 18 U.S.C. § 2265(b) for a protection order
that must be accorded full faith and credit by a court of this state or that it
is not entitled to full faith and credit under 18 U.S.C. § 2265(c).
   (D)   In a prosecution for a violation of this section, it is not necessary
for the prosecution to prove that the protection order or consent agreement was
served on the defendant if the prosecution proves that the defendant was shown
the protection order or consent agreement or a copy of either or a judge,
magistrate or law enforcement officer informed the defendant that a protection
order or consent agreement had been issued, and proves that the defendant
recklessly violated the terms of the order or agreement.
   (E)   (1)   As used in this section, PROTECTION ORDER ISSUED BY A COURT OF
ANOTHER STATE means an injunction or another order issued by a criminal court
of another state for the purpose of preventing violent or threatening acts or
harassment against, contact or communication with, or physical proximity to
another person including a temporary order, and means an injunction or order of
that nature issued by a civil court of another state, including a temporary
order and a final order issued in an independent action or as a pendente lite
order in a proceeding for other relief, if the court issued it in response to a
complaint, petition or motion filed by or on behalf of a person seeking
protection.
      (2)   The term does not include an order for support or for custody of a
child issued pursuant to the divorce and child custody laws of another state,
except to the extent that the order for support or for custody of a child is
entitled to full faith and credit under the laws of the United States.
(R.C. § 2919.27)
§ 135.21 ADULTERATION OF FOOD.
   (A)   No person shall do either of the following, knowing or having
reasonable cause to believe that any person may suffer physical harm or be
seriously inconvenienced or annoyed thereby:
      (1)   Place a pin, razor blade, glass, laxative, drug of abuse or other
harmful or hazardous object or substance in any food or confection; and
      (2)   Furnish to any person any food or confection which has been
adulterated in violation of division (A)(1) above.
(R.C. § 3716.11)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 3716.99(C))
Statutory reference:
   Adulteration of food generally, see R.C. § 3715.59
§ 135.22 ILLEGAL DISTRIBUTION OF CIGARETTES, OTHER TOBACCO PRODUCTS OR
ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCTS; TRANSACTION SCANS.
   (A)   Illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products or
alternative nicotine products.
      (1)   As used in this section:
         AGE VERIFICATION. A service provided by an independent third-party
(other than a manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler or retailer of
cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products or papers
used to roll cigarettes) that compares information available from a
commercially available database, or aggregate of databases, that regularly are
used by government and businesses for the purpose of age and identity
verification to personal information provided during an internet sale or other
remote method of sale to establish that the purchaser is 21 years of age or
older.
         ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT.
            1.   Subject to division 2. below, an electronic smoking device,
vapor product or any other product or device that consists of or contains
nicotine that can be ingested into the body by any means, including, but not
limited to, chewing, smoking, absorbing, dissolving or inhaling.
            2.   The phrase does not include any of the following:
               a.   Any cigarette or other tobacco product;
               b.   Any product that is a DRUG as that term is defined in 21
U.S.C. § 321(g)(1);
               c.   Any product that is a DEVICE as that term is defined in 21
U.S.C. § 321(h); and
               d.   Any product that is a COMBINATION PRODUCT as described in
21 U.S.C. § 353(g).
         CIGARETTE. Includes clove cigarettes and hand-rolled cigarettes.
         DISTRIBUTE. To furnish, give or provide cigarettes, other tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products or papers used to roll cigarettes to
the ultimate consumer of the cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative
nicotine products or papers used to roll cigarettes.
         ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE. Any device that can be used to deliver
aerosolized or vaporized nicotine or any other substance to the person inhaling
from the device including an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic
hookah, vaping pen or electronic pipe. The phrase includes any component, part
or accessory of such a device, whether or not sold separately, and includes any
substance intended to be aerosolized or vaporized during the use of the device.
The phrase does not include any product that is a drug, device or combination
product, as those terms are defined or described in 21 U.S.C. §§ 321 and 353
(g).
         PROOF OF AGE. A driver’s license, a commercial driver’s license, a
military identification card, a passport or an identification card issued under
R.C. §§ 4507.50 to 4507.52 that shows that a person is 18 years of age or
older.
         TOBACCO PRODUCT. Any product that is made or derived from tobacco or
that contains any form of nicotine, if it is intended for human consumption or
is likely to be consumed, whether smoked, heated, chewed, absorbed, dissolved,
inhaled or ingested by any other means, including, but not limited to, a
cigarette, an electronic smoking device, a cigar, pipe tobacco, chewing
tobacco, snuff or snus. The phrase also means any component or accessory used
in the consumption of a tobacco product, such as filters, rolling papers,
pipes, blunt or hemp wraps and liquids used in electronic smoking devices,
whether or not they contain nicotine. The phrase does not include any product
that is a drug, device or combination product, as those terms are defined or
described in 21 U.S.C. §§ 321 and 353(g).
         VAPOR PRODUCT. A product, other than a cigarette or other tobacco
product as defined in R.C. Chapter 5743, that contains or is made or derived
from nicotine and that is intended and marketed for human consumption,
including by smoking, inhaling, snorting or sniffing. The phrase includes any
component, part or additive that is intended for use in an electronic smoking
device, a mechanical heating element, battery or electronic circuit and is used
to deliver the product. The phrase does not include any product that is a drug,
device or combination product, as those terms are defined or described in 21
U.S.C. §§ 321 and 353(g). The phrase includes any product containing nicotine,
regardless of concentration.
         VENDING MACHINE. Has the same meaning as “coin machine” in R.C. §
2913.01.
      (2)   No manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler or retailer of
cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products or papers
used to roll cigarettes, no agent, employee or representative of a
manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler or retailer of cigarettes,
other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products or papers used to roll
cigarettes, and no other person shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Give, sell or otherwise distribute cigarettes, other tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes to
any person under 21 years of age;
         (b)   Give away, sell or distribute cigarettes, other tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products or papers used to roll cigarettes in
any place that does not have posted in a conspicuous place a legibly printed
sign in letters at least one-half inch high stating that giving, selling or
otherwise distributing cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products or papers used to roll cigarettes to a person under 21 years of age is
prohibited by law;
         (c)   Knowingly furnish any false information regarding the name, age
or other identification of any person under 21 years of age with purpose to
obtain cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products or
papers used to roll cigarettes for that person;
         (d)   Manufacture, sell or distribute in this state any pack or other
container of cigarettes containing fewer than 20 cigarettes or any package of
roll-your-own tobacco containing less than six-tenths of one ounce of tobacco;
         (e)   Sell cigarettes or alternative nicotine products in a smaller
quantity than that placed in the pack or other container by the manufacturer;
and
         (f)   Give, sell or otherwise distribute alternative nicotine
products, papers used to roll cigarettes or tobacco products other than
cigarettes over the internet or through another remote method without age
verification.
      (3)   No person shall sell or offer to sell cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products by or from a vending machine, except
in the following locations:
         (a)   An area within a factory, business, office or other place not
open to the general public;
         (b)   An area to which persons under 21 years of age are not generally
permitted access; and
         (c)   Any other place not identified in division (A)(3)(a) or (A)(3)
(b) above, upon all of the following conditions:
            1.   The vending machine is located within the immediate vicinity,
plain view and control of the person who owns or operates the place, or an
employee of that person, so that all cigarettes, other tobacco product and
alternative nicotine product purchases from the vending machine will be readily
observed by the person who owns or operates the place or an employee of that
person. For the purpose of this section, a vending machine located in any
unmonitored area, including an unmonitored coatroom, restroom, hallway or outer
waiting area, shall not be considered located within the immediate vicinity,
plain view and control of the person who owns or operates the place, or an
employee of that person.
            2.   The vending machine is inaccessible to the public when the
place is closed.
            3.   A clearly visible notice is posted in the area where the
vending machine is located that states the following in letters that are
legibly printed and at least one-half inch high: “It is illegal for any person
under the age of 21 to purchase tobacco or alternative nicotine products”.
      (4)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under division
(A)(2)(a) above:
         (a)   The person under 21 years of age was accompanied by a parent,
spouse who is 21 years of age or older, or legal guardian of the person under
21 years of age.
         (b)   The person who gave, sold or distributed cigarettes, other
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products or papers used to roll
cigarettes to a person under 21 years of age under division (A)(2)(a) of this
section is a parent, spouse who is 21 years of age or older or legal guardian
of the person under 21 years of age.
      (5)   It is not a violation of division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) above for
a person to give or otherwise distribute to a person under 21 years of age
cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products or papers
used to roll cigarettes while the person under 21 years of age is participating
in a research protocol if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The parent, guardian or legal custodian of the person under 21
years of age has consented in writing to the person under 21 years of age
participating in the research protocol;
         (b)   An institutional human subjects protection review board, or an
equivalent entity, has approved the research protocol; and
         (c)   The person under 21 years of age is participating in the
research protocol at the facility or location specified in the research
protocol.
      (6)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(2)(a), (A)(2)(b), (A)(2)(d),
(A)(2)(e) or (A)(2)(f) or (A)(3) of above is guilty of illegal distribution of
cigarettes, other tobacco products or alternative nicotine products. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, illegal distribution of cigarettes, other
tobacco products or alternative nicotine products is a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of
division (A)(2)(a), (A)(2)(b), (A)(2)(d), (A)(2)(e) or (A)(2)(f) or (A)(3)
above or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, illegal
distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
         (b)   Whoever violates division (A)(2)(c) above is guilty of
permitting a person under 21 years of age to use cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products. Except as otherwise provided in
this division, permitting a person under 21 years of age to use cigarettes,
other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation
of division (A)(2)(c) above or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, permitting a person under 21 years of age to use
cigarettes, other tobacco products or alternative nicotine products is a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (7)   Any cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products or papers used to roll cigarettes that are given, sold or otherwise
distributed to a person under 21 years of age in violation of this section and
that are used, possessed, purchased or received by a person under 21 years of
age in violation of R.C. § 2151.87 are subject to seizure and forfeiture as
contraband under R.C. Chapter 2981.
(R.C. § 2927.02)
   (B)   Transaction scan.
      (1)   As used in this division and division (C) below:
         CARD HOLDER. Any person who presents a driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or an identification card to a seller, or an agent or employee of a
seller, to purchase or receive cigarettes, other tobacco products or
alternative nicotine products from a seller, agent or employee.
         IDENTIFICATION CARD. An identification card issued under R.C. §§
4507.50 through 4507.52.
         SELLER. A seller of cigarettes, other tobacco products or alternative
nicotine products and includes any person whose gift of or other distribution
of cigarettes, other tobacco products or alternative nicotine products is
subject to the prohibitions of division (A) above.
         TRANSACTION SCAN. The process by which a seller or an agent or
employee of a seller checks, by means of a transaction scan device, the
validity of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification card
that is presented as a condition for purchasing or receiving cigarettes, other
tobacco products or alternative nicotine products.
         TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE. Any commercial device or combination of
devices used at a point of sale that is capable of deciphering in an
electronically readable format the information encoded on the magnetic strip or
bar code of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification
card.
      (2)   (a)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may perform a
transaction scan by means of a transaction scan device to check the validity of
a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a
card holder as a condition for selling, giving away or otherwise distributing
to the card holder cigarettes, other tobacco products or alternative nicotine
products.
         (b)   If the information deciphered by the transaction scan performed
under division (B)(2)(a) above fails to match the information printed on the
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the
card holder, or if the transaction scan indicates that the information so
printed is false or fraudulent, neither the seller nor any agent or employee of
the seller shall sell, give away or otherwise distribute any cigarettes, other
tobacco products or alternative nicotine products to the card holder.
         (c)   Division (B)(2)(a) above does not preclude a seller or an agent
or employee of a seller from using a transaction scan device to check the
validity of a document other than a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
identification card, if the document includes a bar code or magnetic strip that
may be scanned by the device, as a condition for selling, giving away or
otherwise distributing cigarettes, other tobacco products or alternative
nicotine products to the person presenting the document.
      (3)   Rules adopted by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles under R.C. §
4301.61(C) apply to the use of transaction scan devices for purposes of this
division (B) and division (C) below.
      (4)   (a)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall
electronically or mechanically record or maintain any information derived from
a transaction scan, except for the following:
            1.   The name and date of birth of the person listed on the
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the
card holder; and
            2.   The expiration date and identification number of the driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the card
holder.
         (b)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use the
information that is derived from a transaction scan or that is permitted to be
recorded and maintained under division (B)(4)(a) above, except for purposes of
division (C) below.
         (c)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use a
transaction scan device for a purpose other than the purpose specified in
division (C)(2)(a) below.
         (d)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall sell or
otherwise disseminate the information derived from a transaction scan to any
third-party, including, but not limited to, selling or otherwise disseminating
that information for any marketing, advertising or promotional activities, but
a seller or agent or employee of a seller may release that information pursuant
to a court order or as specifically authorized by division (C) below or another
section of this code or the Ohio Revised Code.
      (5)   Nothing in this division (B) or division (C) below relieves a
seller or an agent or employee of a seller of any responsibility to comply with
any other applicable local, state or federal laws or rules governing the sale,
giving away or other distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products or
alternative nicotine products.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (B)(2)(b) or (B)(4) above is guilty of
engaging in an illegal tobacco product or alternative nicotine product
transaction scan, and the court may impose upon the offender a civil penalty of
up to $1,000 for each violation. The Clerk of the Court shall pay each
collected civil penalty to the County Treasurer for deposit into the County
Treasury.
(R.C. § 2927.021)
   (C)   Affirmative defenses.
      (1)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may not be found
guilty of a charge of a violation of division (A) above in which the age of the
purchaser or other recipient of cigarettes, other tobacco products or
alternative nicotine products is an element of the alleged violation, if the
seller, agent or employee raises and proves as an affirmative defense that all
of the following occurred:
         (a)   A card holder attempting to purchase or receive cigarettes,
other tobacco products or alternative nicotine products presented a driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or an identification card;
         (b)   A transaction scan of the driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or identification card that the card holder presented indicated that
the license or card was valid; and
         (c)   The cigarettes, other tobacco products or alternative nicotine
products were sold, given away or otherwise distributed to the card holder in
reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and the completed
transaction scan.
      (2)   In determining whether a seller or an agent or employee of a seller
has proven the affirmative defense provided by division (C)(1) above, the trier
of fact in the action for the alleged violation of division (A) above shall
consider any written policy that the seller has adopted and implemented and
that is intended to prevent violations of division (A) above. For purposes of
division (C)(1)(c) above, the trier of fact shall consider that reasonable
reliance upon the identification presented and the completed transaction scan
may require a seller or an agent or employee of a seller to exercise reasonable
diligence to determine, and that the use of a transaction scan device does not
excuse a seller or an agent or employee of a seller from exercising reasonable
diligence to determine, the following:
         (a)   Whether a person to whom the seller or agent or employee of a
seller sells, gives away or otherwise distributes cigarettes, other tobacco
products or alternative nicotine products is 21 years of age or older;
         (b)   Whether the description and picture appearing on the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a card holder
is that of the card holder.
      (3)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense provided by
division (C)(1) above is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a deputy
registrar who issued an identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50 through
4507.52 shall be permitted to submit certified copies of the records of that
issuance in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of or contractors with the
Bureau of Motor Vehicles in the action.
(R.C. § 2927.022)
   (D)   Shipment of tobacco products.
      (1)   As used in this division (D):
         AUTHORIZED RECIPIENT OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS means a person who is:
            1.   Licensed as a cigarette wholesale dealer under R.C. § 5743.15;
            2.   Licensed as a retail dealer as long as the person purchases
cigarettes with the appropriate tax stamp affixed;
            3.   An export warehouse proprietor as defined in IRC § 5702;
            4.   An operator of a customs bonded warehouse under 19 U.S.C. §
1311 or 19 U.S.C. § 1555;
            5.   An officer, employee or agent of the federal government or of
this state acting in the person’s official capacity;
            6.   A department, agency, instrumentality or political subdivision
of the federal government or of this state; and/or
            7.   A person having a consent for consumer shipment issued by the
Tax Commissioner under R.C. § 5743.71.
         MOTOR CARRIER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4923.01.
      (2)   The purpose of this division (D) is to prevent the sale of
cigarettes to minors and to ensure compliance with the Master Settlement
Agreement, as defined in R.C. § 1346.01.
      (3)   (a)   No person shall cause to be shipped any cigarettes to any
person in this municipality other than an authorized recipient of tobacco
products.
         (b)   No motor carrier or other person shall knowingly transport
cigarettes to any person in this municipality that the carrier or other person
reasonably believes is not an authorized recipient of tobacco products. If
cigarettes are transported to a home or residence, it shall be presumed that
the motor carrier or other person knew that the person to whom the cigarettes
were delivered was not an authorized recipient of tobacco products.
      (4)   No person engaged in the business of selling cigarettes who ships
or causes to be shipped cigarettes to any person in this municipality in any
container or wrapping other than the original container or wrapping of the
cigarettes shall fail to plainly and visibly mark the exterior of the container
or wrapping in which the cigarettes are shipped with the words “cigarettes”.
      (5)   A court shall impose a fine of up to $1,000 for each violation of
division (D)(3)(a), (D)(3)(b) or (D)(4) above.
(R.C. § 2927.023)
   (E)   Furnishing false information to obtain tobacco products.
      (1)   No person who is 18 years of age or older but younger than 21 years
of age shall knowingly furnish false information concerning that person’s name,
age or other identification for the purpose of obtaining tobacco products.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (E)(1) above is guilty of furnishing
false information to obtain tobacco products. Except as otherwise provided in
this division, furnishing false information to obtain tobacco products is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E)(1) above or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, furnishing false information to
obtain tobacco products is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 2927.024)
§ 135.23 NONSMOKING AREAS IN PLACES OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY.
   (A)   As used in this section, PLACE OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY means:
      (1)   Enclosed theaters, except the lobby; opera houses; auditoriums;
classrooms; elevators; rooms in which persons are confined as a matter of
health care, including, but not limited to, a hospital room and a room in a
residential care facility serving as the residence of a person living in such
residential care facility.
      (2)   All buildings and other enclosed structures owned by the state, its
agencies or political subdivisions, including, but not limited to, hospitals
and state institutions for the mentally ill and persons with intellectual
disabilities; university and college buildings, except rooms within those
buildings used primarily as the residences of students or other persons
affiliated with the university or college; office buildings; libraries;
museums; and vehicles used in public transportation. That portion of a building
or other enclosed structure that is owned by the state, a state agency or a
political subdivision, and that is used primarily as a food service
establishment, is not a place of public assembly.
      (3)   Each portion of a building or enclosed structure that is not
included in division (A)(1) or (A)(2) above is a place of public assembly if it
has a seating capacity of 50 or more persons and is available to the public.
Restaurants, food service establishments, dining rooms, cafés, caféterias or
other rooms used primarily for the service of food, as well as bowling alleys
and places licensed by the State Division of Liquor Control to sell
intoxicating beverages for consumption on the premises, are not places of
public assembly.
   (B)   For the purpose of separating persons who smoke from persons who do
not smoke for the comfort and health of persons not smoking, in every place of
public assembly there shall be an area where smoking is not permitted, which
shall be designated a no smoking area, provided that not more than one- half of
the rooms in any health care facility in which persons are confined as a matter
of health care may be designated as smoking areas in their entirety. The
designation shall be made before the place of public assembly is made available
to the public. In places included in division (A)(1) above, the local fire
authority having jurisdiction shall designate the no smoking area. In places
included in division (A)(2) above that are owned by the state or its agencies,
the State Director of Administrative Services shall designate the area, and if
the place is owned by a political subdivision, its legislative authority shall
designate an officer who shall designate the area. In places included in
division (A)(3) above, the person having control of the operations of the place
of public assembly shall designate the no smoking area. In places included in
division (A)(2) above which are also included in division (A)(1) above, the
officer who has authority to designate the area in places in division (A)(2)
above shall designate the no smoking area. A no smoking area may include the
entire place of public assembly. Designations shall be made by the placement of
signs that are clearly visible and that state “no smoking”. No person shall
remove signs from areas designated as no smoking areas.
   (C)   This section does not affect or modify the prohibition contained in
R.C. § 3313.751(B).
   (D)   No person shall smoke in any area designated as a no smoking area in
accordance with division (B) above.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 3791.031)
§ 135.24 SPREADING CONTAGION.
   (A)   No person, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that he or
she is suffering from a dangerous, contagious disease, shall knowingly fail to
take reasonable measures to prevent exposing himself or herself to other
persons, except when seeking medical aid.
   (B)   No person, having charge or care of a person whom he or she knows or
has reasonable cause to believe is suffering from a dangerous, contagious
disease, shall recklessly fail to take reasonable measures to protect others
from exposure to the contagion, and to inform health authorities of the
existence of the contagion.
   (C)   No person, having charge of a public conveyance or place of public
accommodation, amusement, resort or trade, and knowing or having reasonable
cause to believe that persons using such conveyance or place have been or are
being exposed to a dangerous, contagious disease, shall negligently fail to
take reasonable measures to protect the public from exposure to the contagion,
and to inform health authorities of the existence of the contagion.
(R.C. § 3701.81)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second
degree.
(R.C. § 3701.99(C))
Statutory reference:
   Contagion and quarantine, see R.C. §§ 3707.04 et seq.
   Power to prevent contagious diseases, see R.C. § 715.37
§ 135.25 ABUSE OF A CORPSE.
   (A)   No person, except as authorized by law, shall treat a human corpse in
a way that he or she knows would outrage reasonable family sensibilities.
   (B)   No person, except as authorized by law, shall treat a human corpse in
a way that would outrage reasonable community sensibilities.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) above is guilty of abuse of a corpse, a
misdemeanor of the second degree. Whoever violates division (B) above is guilty
of gross abuse of a corpse, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
(R.C. § 2927.01)
CHAPTER 136: OFFENSES AGAINST JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
136.01   Definitions
   
136.02   Compounding a crime
   
136.03   Failure to report a crime
   
136.04   Failure to aid a law enforcement officer
   
136.05   Obstructing justice
   
136.06   Resisting arrest
   
136.07   Falsification
   
136.08   Dereliction of duty
   
136.09   Obstructing official business
   
136.10   Having an unlawful interest in a public contract
   
136.11   Soliciting or receiving improper compensation
   
136.12   Interfering with civil rights
   
136.13   Illegal conveyance of prohibited items onto grounds of a detention
facility or other specified governmental facilities
   
136.14   False report of child abuse or neglect
   
136.15   Assaulting police dog or horse, or assistance dog
   
136.16   Disclosure of confidential peace officer information
   
136.17   Intimidation of crime victim or witness
   
136.18   Using sham legal process
   
136.19   Making false allegation of peace officer misconduct
   
136.20   Misuse of 911 system
   
136.21   Failure to disclose personal information
   
136.22   Illegal conveyance of tobacco and/or tobacco products onto the grounds
of a
Cross-reference:
   Failure to comply with order or signal of a police officer, see §
70.12
Statutory reference:
   Escape from detention, see R.C. § 2921.34
   Harassment by inmates by causing or attempting to cause contact with blood,
semen, urine, feces or other bodily substance; knowledge of AIDS, hepatitis or
tuberculosis infection; felony offenses, see R.C. § 2921.38
§ 136.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   CONTRIBUTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   DETENTION.
      (1)   Arrest; confinement in any vehicle subsequent to an arrest;
confinement in any public or private facility for custody of persons charged
with or convicted of crime in this state or another state or under the laws of
the United States or alleged or found to be a delinquent child or unruly child
in this state or another state or under the laws of the United States;
hospitalization, institutionalization or confinement in any public or private
facility that is ordered pursuant to or under the authority of R.C. §§ 2945.37,
2945.371, 2945.38, 2945.39, 2945.40, 2945.401 or 2945.402; confinement in any
vehicle for transportation to or from any facility of any of those natures;
detention for extradition or deportation; except as provided in this division,
supervision by any employee of any facility of any of those natures that is
incidental to hospitalization, institutionalization or confinement in the
facility but that occurs outside the facility; supervision by an employee of
the Department of Rehabilitation and Correction of a person on any type of
release from a state correctional institution; or confinement in any vehicle,
airplane or place while being returned from outside of this state into this
state by a private person or entity pursuant to a contract entered into under
R.C. § 311.29(E) or R.C. § 5149.03(B).
      (2)   For a person confined in a county jail who participates in a county
jail industry program pursuant to R.C. § 5147.30, the term includes time spent
at an assigned work site and going to and from the work site.
   DETENTION FACILITY. Any public or private place used for the confinement of
a person charged with or convicted of any crime in this state or another state
or under the laws of the United States or alleged or found to be a delinquent
child or an unruly child in this state or another state or under the laws of
the United States.
   LEGISLATIVE CAMPAIGN FUND. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   OFFICIAL PROCEEDING. Any proceeding before a legislative, judicial,
administrative or other governmental agency or official authorized to take
evidence under oath, and includes any proceeding before a referee, hearing
examiner, commissioner, notary or other person taking testimony or a deposition
in connection with an official proceeding.
   PARTY OFFICIAL. Any person who holds an elective or appointive post in a
political party in the United States or this state, by virtue of which he or
she directs, conducts or participates in directing or conducting party affairs
at any level of responsibility.
   POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   POLITICAL CONTRIBUTING ENTITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   POLITICAL PARTY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   PROVIDER AGREEMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5164.01.
   PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Any elected or appointed officer, employee or agent of the
state or any political subdivision thereof, whether in a temporary or permanent
capacity, and includes, but is not limited to, legislators, judges and law
enforcement officers. The term does not include an employee, officer or
governor-appointed member of the board of directors of the nonprofit
corporation formed under R.C. § 187.01.
   PUBLIC SERVANT.
      (1)   Any of the following:
         (a)   Any public official;
         (b)   Any person performing ad hoc a governmental function, including,
but not limited to, a juror, member of a temporary commission, master,
arbitrator, advisor or consultant; or
         (c)   A person who is a candidate for public office, whether or not he
or she is elected or appointed to the office for which he or she is a
candidate. A person is a candidate for purposes of this division if he or she
has been nominated according to law for election or appointment to public
office, or if he or she has filed a petition or petitions as required by law to
have his or her name placed on the ballot in a primary, general or special
election, or if he or she campaigns as a write-in candidate in any primary,
general or special election.
      (2)   The term does not include an employee, officer or governor-
appointed member of the board of directors of the nonprofit corporation formed
under R.C. § 187.01.
   VALUABLE THING or VALUABLE BENEFIT. Includes, but is not limited to, a
contribution. This inclusion does not indicate or imply that a contribution was
not included in those terms before September 17, 1986.
(R.C. § 2921.01) (Prior Code, § 9.09.01)
§ 136.02 COMPOUNDING A CRIME.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly demand, accept or agree to accept anything
of value in consideration of abandoning or agreeing to abandon a pending
criminal prosecution. It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this
section when both of the following apply:
      (1)   The pending prosecution involved is for a violation of R.C. §§
2913.02, 2913.11, 2913.21(B)(2) or 2913.47, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, of which the actor under this section was the victim.
      (2)   The thing of value demanded, accepted or agreed to be accepted, in
consideration of abandoning or agreeing to abandon the prosecution, did not
exceed an amount that the actor reasonably believed due him or her as
restitution for the loss caused him or her by the offense.
   (B)   When a prosecuting witness abandons or agrees to abandon a prosecution
under division (A) above, the abandonment or agreement in no way binds the
state to abandoning the prosecution.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of compounding a crime, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.21) (Prior Code, § 9.09.02)
§ 136.03 FAILURE TO REPORT A CRIME.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) below, no person, knowing that a
felony has been or is being committed, shall knowingly fail to report the
information to law enforcement authorities. No person, knowing that a violation
of R.C. § 2913.04(B) has been or is being committed or that the person has
received information derived from such a violation, shall knowingly fail to
report the violation to law enforcement authorities.
   (B)   Except for conditions that are within the scope of division (E) below,
no person giving aid to a sick or injured person shall negligently fail to
report to law enforcement authorities any gunshot or stab wound treated or
observed by the person, or any serious physical harm to persons that the person
knows or has reasonable cause to believe resulted from an offense of violence.
   (C)   No person who discovers the body or acquires the first knowledge of
the death of a person shall fail to report the death immediately to a physician
or advanced practice registered nurse whom the person knows to be treating the
deceased for a condition from which death at such time would not be unexpected,
or to a law enforcement officer, an ambulance service, an emergency squad or
the coroner in a political subdivision in which the body is discovered, the
death is believed to have occurred or knowledge concerning the death is
obtained. For purposes of this division, “advanced practice registered nurse”
does not include a certified registered nurse anesthetist.
   (D)   No person shall fail to provide upon request of the person to whom a
report required by division (C) above was made, or to any law enforcement
officer who has reasonable cause to assert the authority to investigate the
circumstances surrounding the death, any facts within his or her knowledge that
may have a bearing on the investigation of the death.
   (E)   (1)   As used in this section, BURN INJURY means any of the following:
         (a)   Second or third degree burns;
         (b)   Any burns to the upper respiratory tract or laryngeal edema due
to the inhalation of super-heated air;
         (c)   Any burn injury or wound that may result in death; and/or
         (d)   Any physical harm to persons caused by or as the result of the
use of fireworks, novelties and trick noisemakers and wire sparklers, as each
is defined by R.C. § 3743.01.
      (2)   No physician, nurse, physician assistant or limited practitioner
who, outside a hospital, sanitarium or other medical facility, attends or
treats a person who has sustained a burn injury inflicted by an explosion or
other incendiary device, or that shows evidence of having been inflicted in a
violent, malicious or criminal manner, shall fail to report the burn injury
immediately to the local arson bureau, if there is such a bureau in the
jurisdiction in which the person is attended or treated, or otherwise to local
law enforcement authorities.
      (3)   No manager, superintendent or other person in charge of a hospital,
sanitarium or other medical facility in which a person is attended or treated
for any burn injury inflicted by an explosion or other incendiary device, or
that shows evidence of having been inflicted in a violent, malicious or
criminal manner, shall fail to report the burn injury immediately to the local
arson bureau, if there is such a bureau in the jurisdiction in which the person
is attended or treated, or otherwise to local law enforcement authorities.
      (4)   No person who is required to report any burn injury under division
(E)(2) or (E)(3) above shall fail to file, within three working days after
attending or treating the victim, a written report of the burn injury with the
office of the State Fire Marshal. The report shall be made on a form provided
by the State Fire Marshal.
      (5)   Anyone participating in the making of reports under this division
(E) or anyone participating in a judicial proceeding resulting from the reports
is immune from any civil or criminal liability that otherwise might be incurred
or imposed as a result of such actions. Notwithstanding R.C. § 4731.22, the
physician-patient relationship or advanced practice registered nurse-patient
relationship is not a ground for excluding evidence regarding a person’s burn
injury or the cause of the burn injury in any judicial proceeding resulting
from a report submitted under this division (E).
   (F)   (1)   Any doctor of medicine or osteopathic medicine, hospital intern
or resident, nurse, psychologist, social worker, independent social worker,
social work assistant, licensed professional clinical counselor, licensed
professional counselor, independent marriage and family therapist or marriage
and family therapist who knows or has reasonable cause to believe that a
patient or client has been the victim of domestic violence, as defined in R.C.
§ 3113.31, shall note that knowledge or belief and the basis for it in the
patient’s or client’s records.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 4731.22, the physician-patient privilege or
advanced practice registered nurse-patient privilege shall not be a ground for
excluding any information regarding the report containing the knowledge or
belief noted under division (F)(1) above, and the information may be admitted
as evidence in accordance with the rules of evidence.
   (G)   Division (A) or (D) above does not require disclosure of information,
when any of the following applies:
      (1)   The information is privileged by reason of the relationship between
attorney and client; physician and patient; advanced practice registered nurse
and patient; licensed psychologist or licensed school psychologist and client;
licensed professional clinical counselor, licensed professional counselor,
independent social worker, social worker, independent marriage and family
therapist or marriage and family therapist and client; member of the clergy,
rabbi, minister or priest and any person communicating information
confidentially to the member of the clergy, rabbi, minister or priest for a
religious counseling purpose of a professional character; husband and wife; or
a communications assistant and those who are a party to a telecommunications
relay service call;
      (2)   The information would tend to incriminate a member of the actor’s
immediate family;
      (3)   Disclosure of the information would amount to revealing a news
source, privileged under R.C. §§ 2739.04 or 2739.12;
      (4)   Disclosure of the information would amount to disclosure by a
member of the ordained clergy of an organized religious body of a confidential
communication made to him or her in his or her capacity as such by a person
seeking his or her aid or counsel;
      (5)   Disclosure would amount to revealing information acquired by the
actor in the course of his or her duties in connection with a bona fide program
of treatment or services for drug dependent persons or persons in danger of
drug dependence, which program is maintained or conducted by a hospital,
clinic, person, agency or community addiction services provider whose alcohol
and drug addiction services are certified pursuant to R.C. § 5119.36; and
      (6)   Disclosure would amount to revealing information acquired by the
actor in the course of his or her duties in connection with a bona fide program
for providing counseling services to victims of crimes that are violations of
R.C. §§ 2907.02 or 2907.05, or to victims of felonious sexual penetration in
violation of former R.C. § 2907.12. As used in this division, “counseling
services” include services provided in an informal setting by a person who, by
education or experience, is competent to provide such services.
   (H)   No disclosure of information pursuant to this section gives rise to
any liability or recrimination for a breach of privilege or confidence.
   (I)   Whoever violates division (A) or (B) above is guilty of failure to
report a crime. Violation of division (A)(1) above is a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. Violation of division (A)(2) or (B) above is a misdemeanor of
the second degree.
   (J)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) above is guilty of failure to
report knowledge of a death, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (K)   (1)   Whoever negligently violates division (E) above is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Whoever knowingly violates division (E) above is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (L)   As used in this section, NURSE includes an advanced practice
registered nurse, registered nurse and licensed practical nurse.
(R.C. § 2921.22) (Prior Code, § 9.09.03)
§ 136.04 FAILURE TO AID A LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall negligently fail or refuse to aid a law enforcement
officer, when called upon for assistance in preventing or halting the
commission of an offense, or in apprehending or detaining an offender, when the
aid can be given without a substantial risk of physical harm to the person
giving it.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to aid a law
enforcement officer, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2921.23) (Prior Code, § 9.09.04)
§ 136.05 OBSTRUCTING JUSTICE.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to hinder the discovery, apprehension,
prosecution, conviction or punishment of another for crime, or to assist
another to benefit from the commission of a crime, and no person, with purpose
to hinder the discovery, apprehension, prosecution, adjudication as a
delinquent child or disposition of a child for an act that if committed by an
adult would be a crime or to assist a child to benefit from the commission of
an act that if committed by an adult would be a crime, shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Harbor or conceal the other person or child;
      (2)   Provide the other person or child with money, transportation, a
weapon, a disguise or other means of avoiding discovery or apprehension;
      (3)   Warn the other person or child of impending discovery or
apprehension;
      (4)   Destroy or conceal physical evidence of the crime or act, or induce
any person to withhold testimony or information or to elude legal process
summoning him or her to testify or supply evidence;
      (5)   Communicate false information to any person; or
      (6)   Prevent or obstruct any person, by means of force, intimidation or
deception, from performing any act to aid in the discovery, apprehension or
prosecution of the other person or child.
   (B)   A person may be prosecuted for, and may be convicted of or adjudicated
a delinquent child for committing, a violation of division (A) above regardless
of whether the person or child aided ultimately is apprehended for, is charged
with, is convicted of, pleads guilty to or is adjudicated a delinquent child
for committing the crime or act the person or child aided committed. The crime
or act the person or child aided committed shall be used under division (C)
below in determining the penalty for violation of division (A) above,
regardless of whether the person or child aided ultimately is apprehended for,
is charge with, is convicted of, pleads guilty to or is adjudicated a
delinquent child for committing the crime or act the person or child aided
committed.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of obstructing justice.
      (1)   If the crime committed by the person aided is a misdemeanor or if
the act committed by the child aided would be a misdemeanor if committed by an
adult, obstructing justice is a misdemeanor of the same degree as the crime
committed by the person aided or a misdemeanor of the same degree that the act
committed by the child aided would be if committed by an adult.
      (2)   If the crime committed by the person aided is a felony or if the
act committed by the child aided would be a felony if committed by an adult, or
if the crime or act committed by the person or child aided is an act of
terrorism, obstructing justice is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      ACT OF TERRORISM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.21.
      ADULT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2151.011.
      CHILD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2151.011.
      DELINQUENT CHILD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2152.02.
(R.C. § 2921.32) (Prior Code, § 9.09.05)
§ 136.06 RESISTING ARREST.
   (A)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of himself, herself or another.
   (B)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of the person or another person and, during the course of or as a
result of the resistance or interference, cause physical harm to a law
enforcement officer.
   (C)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of the person or another person if either of the following
applies:
      (1)   The offender, during the course of or as a result of the resistance
or interference, recklessly causes physical harm to a law enforcement officer
by means of a deadly weapon; or
      (2)   The offender, during the course of the resistance or interference,
brandishes a deadly weapon.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of resisting arrest. A
violation of division (A) above is a misdemeanor of the second degree. A
violation of division (B) above is a misdemeanor of the first degree. A
violation of division (C) above is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (E)   As used in this section, DEADLY WEAPON has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2923.11.
(R.C. § 2921.33) (Prior Code, § 9.09.06)
Statutory reference:
   Unlawful taking of deadly weapon from a law enforcement officer, felony
offense, see R.C. § 2911.01
§ 136.07 FALSIFICATION.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement, or knowingly swear
or affirm the truth of a false statement previously made, when any of the
following applies.
      (1)   The statement is made in any official proceeding.
      (2)   The statement is made with purpose to incriminate another.
      (3)   The statement is made with purpose to mislead a public official in
performing his or her official function.
      (4)   The statement is made with purpose to secure the payment of
unemployment compensation; Ohio Works First; prevention, retention and
contingency benefits and services; disability financial assistance; retirement
benefits or health care coverage from a state retirement system; economic
development assistance, as defined in R.C. § 9.66; or other benefits
administered by a governmental agency or paid out of a public treasury.
      (5)   The statement is made with purpose to secure the issuance by a
governmental agency of a license, permit, authorization, certificate,
registration, release or provider agreement.
      (6)   The statement is sworn or affirmed before a notary public or
another person empowered to administer oaths.
      (7)   The statement is in writing on or in connection with a report or
return that is required or authorized by law.
      (8)   The statement is in writing, and is made with purpose to induce
another to extend credit to or employ the offender, or to confer any degree,
diploma, certificate of attainment, award of excellence or honor on the
offender, or to extend to or bestow upon the offender any other valuable
benefit or distinction, when the person to whom the statement is directed
relies upon it to his or her detriment.
      (9)   The statement is made with purpose to commit or facilitate the
commission of a theft offense.
      (10)   The statement is knowingly made to a probate court in connection
with any action, proceeding, or other matter within its jurisdiction, either
orally or in a written document, including, but not limited to, an application,
petition, complaint or other pleading, or an inventory, account or report.
      (11)   The statement is made on an account, form, record, stamp, label or
other writing that is required by law.
      (12)   The statement is made in connection with the purchase of a
firearm, as defined in R.C. § 2923.11, and in conjunction with the furnishing
to the seller of the firearm of a fictitious or altered driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit, a fictitious or altered identification card, or any
other document that contains false information about the purchaser’s identity.
      (13)   The statement is made in a document or instrument of writing that
purports to be a judgment, lien or claim of indebtedness and is filed or
recorded with the Secretary of State, a county recorder or the clerk of a court
of record.
      (14)   The statement is made in an application filed with a county
sheriff pursuant to R.C. § 2923.125 in order to obtain or renew a concealed
handgun license or is made in an affidavit submitted to a county sheriff to
obtain a concealed handgun license on a temporary emergency basis under R.C. §
2923.1213.
      (15)   The statement is required under R.C. § 5743.71 in connection with
the person’s purchase of cigarettes or tobacco products in a delivery sale.
   (B)   No person, in connection with the purchase of a firearm as defined in
R.C. § 2923.11, shall knowingly furnish to the seller of the firearm a
fictitious or altered driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit, a
fictitious or altered identification card or any other document that contains
false information about the purchaser’s identity.
   (C)   No person, in an attempt to obtain a concealed handgun license under
R.C. § 2923.125, shall knowingly present to a sheriff a fictitious or altered
document that purports to be certification of the person’s competence in
handling a handgun as described in division (B)(3) above.
   (D)   It is no defense to a charge under division (A)(6) above that the oath
or affirmation was administered or taken in an irregular manner.
   (E)   If contradictory statements relating to the same fact are made by the
offender within the period of the statute of limitations for falsification, it
is not necessary for the prosecution to prove which statement was false, but
only that one or the other was false.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), (A)
(5), (A)(6), (A)(7), (A)(8), (A)(10), (A)(11), (A)(13) or (A)(15) above is
guilty of falsification. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
falsification is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(9) above is guilty of falsification
in a theft offense. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
falsification in a theft offense is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
value of the property or services stolen is $1,000 or more, falsification in a
theft offense is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(12) or (B) above is guilty of
falsification to purchase a firearm, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (A)(14) or (C) above is guilty of
falsification to obtain a concealed handgun license, a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section in removal
proceedings under R.C. § 319.26, 321.37, 507.13 or 733.78 is guilty of
falsification regarding a removal proceeding, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.13) (Prior Code, § 9.09.07)
   (G)   (1)   No person who has knowingly failed to maintain proof of
financial responsibility in accordance with R.C. § 4509.101 shall produce any
document or present to a peace officer an electronic wireless communications
device that is displaying any text or images with the purpose to mislead a
peace officer upon the request of a peace officer for proof of financial
responsibility made in accordance with R.C. § 4509.101(D)(2).
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (G) is guilty of falsification, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4509.102)
Statutory reference:
   Civil liability for violations of this section, see R.C. § 2921.13(G)
§ 136.08 DERELICTION OF DUTY.
   (A)   No law enforcement officer shall negligently do any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to serve a lawful warrant without delay; or
      (2)   Fail to prevent or halt the commission of an offense or to
apprehend an offender, when it is in the law enforcement officer’s power to do
so alone or with available assistance.
   (B)   No law enforcement, ministerial or judicial officer shall negligently
fail to perform a lawful duty in a criminal case or proceeding.
   (C)   No officer, having charge of a detention facility, shall negligently
do any of the following:
      (1)   Allow the detention facility to become littered or unsanitary;
      (2)   Fail to provide persons confined in the detention facility with
adequate food, clothing, bedding, shelter and medical attention;
      (3)   Fail to control an unruly prisoner, or to prevent intimidation of
or physical harm to a prisoner by another;
      (4)   Allow a prisoner to escape; or
      (5)   Fail to observe any lawful and reasonable regulation for the
management of the detention facility.
   (D)   No public official shall recklessly create a deficiency, incur a
liability or expend a greater sum than is appropriated by the legislative
authority for the use in any one year of the department, agency or institution
with which the public official is connected.
   (E)   No public servant shall recklessly fail to perform a duty expressly
imposed by law with respect to the public servant’s office, or recklessly do
any act expressly forbidden by law with respect to the public servant’s office.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of dereliction of duty, a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (G)   Except as otherwise provided by law, a public servant who is a county
treasurer; county auditor; township fiscal officer; city auditor; city
treasurer; village fiscal officer; village clerk-treasurer; village clerk; in
the case of a municipal corporation having a charter that designates an officer
who, by virtue of the charter, has duties and functions similar to those of the
city or village officers referred to in this section, the officer so designated
by the charter; school district treasurer; fiscal officer of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314; treasurer of a science, technology,
engineering, and mathematics school established under R.C. Chapter 3326; or
fiscal officer of a college-preparatory boarding school established under R.C.
Chapter 3328 and is convicted of or pleads guilty to dereliction of duty is
disqualified from holding any public office, employment or position of trust in
this state for four years following the date of conviction or of entry of the
plea, and is not entitled to hold any public office until any repayment or
restitution required by the court is satisfied.
   (H)   As used in this section, PUBLIC SERVANT includes the following:
      (1)   An officer or employee of a contractor as defined in R.C. § 9.08;
      (2)   A fiscal officer employed by the operator of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314 or by the operator of a college-preparatory
boarding school established under R.C. Chapter 3328.
(R.C. § 2921.44) (Prior Code, § 9.09.08)
§ 136.09 OBSTRUCTING OFFICIAL BUSINESS.
   No person, without privilege to do so and with purpose to prevent, obstruct
or delay the performance by a public official of any authorized act within the
public official’s official capacity, shall do any act that hampers or impedes a
public official in the performance of the public official’s lawful duties.
Whoever violates this section is guilty of obstructing official business.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, obstructing official business is
a misdemeanor of the second degree. If a violation of this section creates a
risk of physical harm to any person, obstructing official business is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.31)
§ 136.10 HAVING AN UNLAWFUL INTEREST IN A PUBLIC CONTRACT.
   (A)   No public official shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Authorize or employ the authority of the public official’s office
to secure authorization of any public contract in which the public official, a
member of the public official’s family or any of the public official’s business
associates has an interest;
      (2)   Authorize or employ the authority or influence of the public
official’s office to secure the investment of public funds in any share, bond,
mortgage or other security with respect to which the public official, a member
of the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s business
associates either has an interest, is an underwriter or receives any brokerage,
origination or servicing fees;
      (3)   During the public official’s term of office or within one year
thereafter, occupy any position of profit in the prosecution of a public
contract authorized by the public official or by a legislative body, commission
or board of which the public official was a member at the time of
authorization, unless the contract was let by competitive bidding to the lowest
and best bidder;
      (4)   Have an interest in the profits or benefits of a public contract
entered into by or for the use of the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality with which the public official is connected; or
      (5)   Have an interest in the profits or benefits of a public contract
that is not let by competitive bidding when required by law, and that involves
more than $150.
   (B)   In the absence of bribery or a purpose to defraud, a public official,
member of a public official’s family or any of a public official’s business
associates shall not be considered as having an interest in a public contract
or the investment of public funds, if all of the following apply:
      (1)   The interest of that person is limited to owning or controlling
shares of the corporation, or being a creditor of the corporation or other
organization, that is the contractor on the public contract involved, or that
is the issuer of the security in which public funds are invested;
      (2)   The shares owned or controlled by that person do not exceed 5% of
the outstanding shares of the corporation, and the amount due that person as
creditor does not exceed 5% of the total indebtedness of the corporation or
other organization; and
      (3)   That person, prior to the time the public contract is entered into,
files with the political subdivision or governmental agency or instrumentality
involved, an affidavit giving that person’s exact status in connection with the
corporation or other organization.
   (C)   This section does not apply to a public contract in which a public
official, member of a public official’s family, or one of a public official’s
business associates has an interest, when all of the following apply:
      (1)   The subject of the public contract is necessary supplies or
services for the political subdivision or governmental agency or
instrumentality involved.
      (2)   The supplies or services are unobtainable elsewhere for the same or
lower cost, or are being furnished to the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality as part of a continuing course of dealing established
prior to the public official’s becoming associated with the political
subdivision or governmental agency or instrumentality involved.
      (3)   The treatment accorded the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality is either preferential to or the same as that
accorded other customers or clients in similar transactions.
      (4)   The entire transaction is conducted at arm’s length, with full
knowledge by the political subdivision or governmental agency or
instrumentality involved, of the interest of the public official, member of the
public official’s family, or business associate, and the public official takes
no part in the deliberations or decision of the political subdivision or
governmental agency or instrumentality with respect to the public contract.
   (D)   Division (A)(4) above does not prohibit participation by a public
employee in any housing program funded by public monies if the public employee
otherwise qualifies for the program and does not use the authority or influence
of the public employee’s office or employment to secure benefits from the
program and if the monies are to be used on the primary residence of the public
employee. Such participation does not constitute an unlawful interest in a
public contract in violation of this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of having an unlawful interest
in a public contract. Violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) above is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. Violation of division (A)(3), (A)
(4) or (A)(5) above is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (F)   It is not a violation of this section for a prosecuting attorney to
appoint assistants and employees in accordance with R.C. §§ 309.06 and
2921.421, or for a chief legal officer of a municipality or an official
designated as prosecutor in a municipality to appoint assistants and employees
in accordance with R.C. §§ 733.621 and 2921.421, or for a township law director
appointed under R.C. § 504.15 to appoint assistants and employees in accordance
with R.C. §§ 504.151 and 2921.421.
   (G)   Any public contract in which a public official, a member of the public
official’s family, or any of the public official’s business associates has an
interest in violation of this section is void and unenforceable. Any contract
securing the investment of public funds in which a public official, a member of
the public official’s family or any of the public official’s business
associates has an interest, is an underwriter, or receives any brokerage,
origination or servicing fees and that was entered into in violation of this
section is void and unenforceable.
   (H)   As used in this section:
      CHIEF LEGAL OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 733.621.
      PUBLIC CONTRACT. Any of the following:
         (a)   The purchase or acquisition, or a contract for the purchase or
acquisition, of property or services by or for the use of the state or any of
its political subdivisions, or any agency or instrumentality of either,
including the employment of an individual by the state, any of its political
subdivisions or any agency or instrumentality of either; or
         (b)   A contract for the design, construction, alteration, repair or
maintenance of any public property.
(R.C. § 2921.42)
Statutory reference:
   Assistants and employees of Prosecutors, Law Directors, and Solicitors, see
R.C. § 2921.421
§ 136.11 SOLICITING OR RECEIVING IMPROPER COMPENSATION.
   (A)   No public servant shall knowingly solicit or accept and no person
shall knowingly promise or give to a public servant either of the following:
      (1)   Any compensation, other than as allowed by R.C. § 102.03(G), (H),
(I) or other provisions of law, to perform the public servant’s official
duties, to perform any other act or service in the public servant’s public
capacity, for the general performance of the duties of the public servant’s
public office or public employment, or as a supplement to the public servant’s
public compensation; or
      (2)   Additional or greater fees or costs than are allowed by law to
perform the public servant’s official duties.
   (B)   No public servant for the public servant’s own personal or business
use and no person for the person’s own personal or business use or for the
personal or business use of a public servant or party official, shall solicit
or accept anything of value in consideration of either of the following:
      (1)   Appointing or securing, maintaining or renewing the appointment of
any person to any public office, employment or agency; or
      (2)   Preferring, or maintaining the status of, any public employee with
respect to compensation, duties, placement, location, promotion or other
material aspects of employment.
   (C)   No person for the benefit of a political party, campaign committee,
legislative campaign fund, political action committee or political contributing
entity shall coerce any contribution in consideration of either of the
following:
      (1)   Appointing or securing, maintaining or renewing the appointment of
any person to any public office, employment or agency; or
      (2)   Preferring, or maintaining the status of, any public employee with
respect to compensation, duties, placement, location, promotion or other
material aspects of employment.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of soliciting improper
compensation, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (E)   A public servant who is convicted of a violation of this section is
disqualified from holding any public office, employment or position of trust in
this state for a period of seven years from the date of conviction.
   (F)   Divisions (A), (B) and (C) above do not prohibit any person from
making voluntary contributions to a political party, campaign committee,
legislative campaign fund, political action committee or political contributing
entity or prohibit a political party, campaign committee, legislative campaign
fund, political action committee or political contributing entity from
accepting voluntary contributions.
(R.C. § 2921.43)
§ 136.12 INTERFERING WITH CIVIL RIGHTS.
   (A)   No public servant, under color of the public servant’s office,
employment or authority, shall knowingly deprive, or conspire or attempt to
deprive any person of a constitutional or statutory right.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interfering with civil
rights, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.45)
Statutory reference:
   Restraining or confining pregnant children or pregnant women, see R.C. §
2152.75(B) and R.C. § 2901.10
§ 136.13 ILLEGAL CONVEYANCE OF PROHIBITED ITEMS ONTO GROUNDS OF A DETENTION
FACILITY OR OTHER SPECIFIED GOVERNMENTAL FACILITIES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly convey, or attempt to convey, onto the
grounds of a detention facility or of an institution, office building or other
place that is under the control of the Department of Mental Health and
Addiction Services, the Department of Developmental Disabilities, the
Department of Youth Services or the Department of Rehabilitation and
Correction, any of the following items:
      (1)   Any deadly weapon or dangerous ordnance, as defined in R.C. §
2923.11, or any part of or ammunition for use in such deadly weapon or
dangerous ordnance;
      (2)   Any drug of abuse, as defined in R.C. § 3719.011; or
      (3)   Any intoxicating liquor, as defined in R.C. § 4301.01, except for
small amounts of wine for sacramental purposes when the person engaging in the
specified conduct is a cleric, as defined in R.C. § 2317.02.
   (B)   Division (A) above does not apply to any person who conveys or
attempts to convey an item onto the grounds of a detention facility or of an
institution, office building or other place under the control of the Department
of Mental Health and Addiction Services, the Department of Developmental
Disabilities, the Department of Youth Services or the Department of
Rehabilitation and Correction, with written authorization of the person in
charge of the detention facility or the institution, office building or other
place and in accordance with the written rules of the detention facility or the
institution, office building or other place.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly deliver, or attempt to deliver, to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, to a prisoner who is temporarily released from confinement
for a work assignment or to any patient in an institution under the control of
the Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services or the Department of
Developmental Disabilities, any item listed in division (A).
   (D)   No person shall knowingly deliver or attempt to deliver cash to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility or to a prisoner who is temporarily released from confinement
for a work assignment.
   (E)   No person shall knowingly deliver, or attempt to deliver, to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility or to a prisoner who is temporarily released from confinement
for a work assignment a cellular telephone, two-way radio or other electronic
communications device.
   (F)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(1)
above that the weapon or dangerous ordnance in question was being transported
in a motor vehicle for any lawful purpose, that it was not on the actor’s
person, and if the weapon or dangerous ordnance was a firearm, that it was
unloaded and was being carried in a closed package, box or case or in a
compartment that can be reached only by leaving the vehicle.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (C) above
that the actor was not otherwise prohibited by law from delivering the item to
the confined person, the child, the prisoner or the patient and that either of
the following applies:
         (a)   The actor was permitted by the written rules of the detention
facility or the institution, office building or other place to deliver the item
to the confined person or the patient.
         (b)   The actor was given written authorization by the person in
charge of the detention facility or the institution, office building or other
place to deliver the item to the confined person or the patient.
   (G)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) above or commits a violation of
division (C) above involving any item listed in division (A)(1) above is guilty
of illegal conveyance of weapons onto the grounds of a specified governmental
facility, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(2) above or commits a violation of
division (C) above involving any drug of abuse is guilty of illegal conveyance
of drugs of abuse onto the grounds of a specified governmental facility, a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(3) of this section or commits a
violation of division (C) above involving any intoxicating liquor is guilty of
illegal conveyance of intoxicating liquor onto the grounds of a specified
governmental facility, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (4)   (a)   Whoever violates division (D) above is guilty of illegal
conveyance of cash onto the grounds of a detention facility, a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (D) above or a substantially equivalent state
law or municipal ordinance, illegal conveyance of cash onto the grounds of a
detention facility is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   (a)   Whoever violates division (E) above is guilty of illegal
conveyance of a communications device onto the grounds of a specified
governmental facility, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted or pleaded guilty
to a violation of division (E) above or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, illegal conveyance of a communications device onto the
grounds of a detention facility is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2921.36)
   (H)   The person in charge of a detention facility shall, on the grounds of
the detention facility, have the same power as a peace officer, as defined in
R.C. § 2935.01, to arrest a person who violates this section.
(R.C. § 2921.37)
Cross-reference:
   Possession of an object indistinguishable from a firearm in a school safety
zone, see §
137.18
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, see §
137.19
Statutory reference:
   Conveyance or possession of deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance on school
premises, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.122
   Conveyance, possession, or control of deadly weapon or dangerous ordinance
in a courthouse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.123
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, felony offense, see R.C.
§ 2923.131
§ 136.14 FALSE REPORT OF CHILD ABUSE OR NEGLECT.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make or cause another person to make a false
report under R.C. § 2151.421(B) alleging that any person has committed an act
or omission that resulted in a child being an abused child as defined in R.C. §
2151.031 or a neglected child as defined in R.C. § 2151.03.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making or causing a false
report of child abuse or child neglect, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.14)
§ 136.15 ASSAULTING POLICE DOG OR HORSE, OR ASSISTANCE DOG.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cause, or attempt to cause, physical harm to
a police dog or horse in either of the following circumstances:
      (1)   The police dog or horse is assisting a law enforcement officer in
the performance of the officer’s official duties at the time the physical harm
is caused or attempted; or
      (2)   The police dog or horse is not assisting a law enforcement officer
in the performance of the officer’s official duties at the time the physical
harm is caused or attempted, but the offender has actual knowledge that the dog
or horse is a police dog or horse.
   (B)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following:
      (1)   Taunt, torment or strike a police dog or horse;
      (2)   Throw an object or substance at a police dog or horse;
      (3)   Interfere with or obstruct a police dog or horse, or interfere with
or obstruct a law enforcement officer who is being assisted by a police dog or
horse, in a manner that does any of the following:
         (a)   Inhibits or restricts the law enforcement officer’s control of
the police dog or horse;
         (b)   Deprives the law enforcement officer of control of the police
dog or horse;
         (c)   Releases the police dog or horse from its area of control;
         (d)   Enters the area of control of the police dog or horse without
the consent of the law enforcement officer, including placing food or any other
object or substance into that area; and/or
         (e)   Inhibits or restricts the ability of the police dog or horse to
assist a law enforcement officer;
      (4)   Engage in any conduct that is likely to cause serious physical
injury or death to a police dog or horse; and/or
      (5)   If the person is the owner, keeper or harborer of a dog, fail to
reasonably restrain the dog from taunting, tormenting, chasing, approaching in
a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack, or attempting to bite or
otherwise endanger a police dog or horse that at the time of the conduct is
assisting a law enforcement officer in the performance of the officer’s duties
or that the person knows is a police dog or horse.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly cause, or attempt to cause, physical harm to
an assistance dog in either of the following circumstances:
      (1)   The dog is assisting or serving a blind, deaf or hearing impaired,
or mobility impaired person at the time the physical harm is caused or
attempted.
      (2)   The dog is not assisting or serving a blind, deaf or hearing
impaired, or mobility impaired person at the time the physical harm is caused
or attempted, but the offender has actual knowledge that the dog is an
assistance dog.
   (D)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following:
      (1)   Taunt, torment or strike an assistance dog;
      (2)   Throw an object or substance at an assistance dog;
      (3)   Interfere with or obstruct an assistance dog, or interfere with or
obstruct a blind, deaf or hearing impaired or mobility impaired person who is
being assisted or served by an assistance dog, in a manner that does any of the
following:
         (a)   Inhibits or restricts the assisted or served person’s control of
the dog;
         (b)   Deprives the assisted or served person of control of the dog;
         (c)   Releases the dog from its area of control;
         (d)   Enters the area of control of the dog without the consent of the
assisted or served person, including placing food or any other object or
substance into that area; and/or
         (e)   Inhibits or restricts the ability of the dog to assist the
assisted or served person.
      (4)   Engage in any conduct that is likely to cause serious physical
injury or death to an assistance dog; and/or
      (5)   If the person is the owner, keeper or harborer of a dog, fail to
reasonably restrain the dog from taunting, tormenting, chasing, approaching in
a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack or attempting to bite or
otherwise endanger an assistance dog that at the time of the conduct is
assisting or serving a blind, deaf or hearing impaired or mobility impaired
person or that the person knows is an assistance dog.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) above is guilty of assaulting a
police dog or horse. Except as otherwise provided in this division, assaulting
a police dog or horse is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the violation
results in physical harm to the police dog or horse other than death or serious
physical harm, assaulting a police dog or horse is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the violation results in serious physical harm to the police dog or
horse or results in its death, assaulting a police dog or horse is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) above is guilty of harassing a police
dog or horse. Except as otherwise provided this division, harassing a police
dog or horse is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the violation results in
physical harm to the police dog or horse but does not result in its death or in
serious physical harm to it, harassing a police dog or horse is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the violation results in serous physical harm to the
police dog or horse or results in its death, harassing a police dog or horse is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C) above is guilty of assaulting an
assistance dog. Except as otherwise provided in this division, assaulting an
assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the violation results
in physical harm to the assistance dog other than death or serious physical
harm, assaulting an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
violation results in serious physical harm to the assistance dog or results in
its death, assaulting an assistance dog is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D) above is guilty of harassing an
assistance dog. Except as otherwise provided in this division, harassing an
assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the violation results
in physical harm to the assistance dog but does not result in the death or in
serious physical harm to it, harassing an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the violation results in serious physical harm to the
assistance dog or results in its death, harassing an assistance dog is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   In addition to any other sanctions or penalty imposed for the
offense under this section, R.C. Chapter 2929 or any other provision of the
Ohio Revised Code or this code, whoever violates division (A), (B), (C) or (D)
above is responsible for the payment of all of the following:
         (a)   Any veterinary bill or bill for medication incurred as a result
of the violation by the Police Department regarding a violation of division (A)
or (B) above or by the blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility impaired
person assisted or served by the assistance dog regarding a violation of
division (C) or (D) above;
         (b)   The cost of any damaged equipment that results from the
violation;
         (c)   If the violation did not result in the death of the police dog
or horse or the assistance dog that was the subject of the violation and if, as
a result of that dog or horse being the subject of the violation, the dog or
horse needs further training or retraining to be able to continue in the
capacity of a police dog or horse or an assistance dog, the cost of any further
training or retraining of that dog or horse by a law enforcement officer or by
the blind, deaf or hearing impaired or mobility impaired person assisted or
served by the assistance dog; and
         (d)   If the violation resulted in the death of the assistance dog
that was the subject of the violation or resulted in serious physical harm to
the police dog or horse or the assistance dog that was the subject of the
violation to the extent that the dog or horse needs to be replaced on either a
temporary or a permanent basis, the cost of replacing that dog or horse and of
any further training of a new police dog or horse or a new assistance dog by a
law enforcement officer or by the blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility
impaired person assisted or served by the assistance dog, which replacement or
training is required because of the death of or the serious physical harm to
the dog or horse that was the subject of the violation.
   (F)   This section does not apply to a licensed veterinarian whose conduct
is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4741.
   (G)   This section only applies to an offender who knows or should know at
the time of the violation that the police dog or horse or assistance dog that
is the subject of a violation under this section is a police dog or horse or an
assistance dog.
   (H)   As used in this section:
      ASSISTANCE DOG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 955.011.
      BLIND. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 955.011.
      MOBILITY IMPAIRED PERSON. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 955.011.
      PHYSICAL HARM. Any injury, illness or other psychological impairment,
regardless of its gravity or duration.
      POLICE DOG OR HORSE. A dog or horse that has been trained and may be used
to assist law enforcement officers in the performance of their official duties.
      SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM. Any of the following:
         (a)   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death;
         (b)   Any physical harm that causes permanent maiming or that involves
some temporary, substantial maiming; and/or
         (c)   Any physical harm that causes acute pain of a duration that
results in substantial suffering.
(R.C. § 2921.321)
§ 136.16 DISCLOSURE OF CONFIDENTIAL PEACE OFFICER INFORMATION.
   (A)   No officer or employee of a law enforcement agency or court, or of the
clerk’s office of any court, shall disclose during the pendency of any criminal
case the home address of any peace officer, parole officer, prosecuting
attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee or youth
services employee who is a witness or arresting officer in the case.
   (B)   Division (A) above does not prohibit a peace officer, parole officer,
prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee, or
youth services employee from disclosing the peace officer’s, parole officer’s,
prosecuting attorney’s, assistant prosecuting attorney’s, correctional
employee’s or youth services employee’s own home address, and does not apply to
any person who discloses the home address of a peace officer, parole officer,
prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee or
youth services employee pursuant to a court-ordered disclosure under division
(C) below.
   (C)   The court in which any criminal case is pending may order the
disclosure of the home address of any peace officer, parole officer,
prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee or
youth services employee who is a witness or arresting officer in the case, if
the court determines after a written request for the disclosure that good cause
exists for disclosing the home address of the peace officer, parole officer,
prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee or
youth services employee.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) above is guilty of disclosure of
confidential information, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2921.24)
   (E)   No judge of a court of record, or Mayor presiding over a Mayor’s
Court, shall order a peace officer, parole officer, prosecuting attorney,
assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee or youth services
employee who is a witness in a criminal case, to disclose the peace officer’s,
parole officer’s, prosecuting attorney’s, assistant prosecuting attorney’s,
correctional employee’s or youth services employee’s home address during the
peace officer’s, parole officer’s, prosecuting attorney’s, assistant
prosecuting attorney’s, correctional employee’s or youth services employee’s
examination in the case unless the judge or Mayor determines that the defendant
has a right to the disclosure.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
      CORRECTIONAL EMPLOYEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 149.43.
      YOUTH SERVICES EMPLOYEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 149.43.
(R.C. § 2921.25)
§ 136.17 INTIMIDATION OF CRIME VICTIM OR WITNESS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly attempt to intimidate or hinder the victim
of a crime or delinquent act in the filing or prosecution of criminal charges
or a delinquent child action or proceeding, and no person shall knowingly
attempt to intimidate a witness to a criminal or delinquent act by reason of
the person being a witness to that act.
   (B)   No person, knowingly and by force or by unlawful threat of harm to any
person or property or by unlawful threat to commit any offense or calumny
against any person, shall attempt to influence, intimidate or hinder any of the
following persons:
      (1)   The victim of a crime or delinquent act in the filing or
prosecution of criminal charges or a delinquent child action or proceeding;
      (2)   A witness to a criminal or delinquent act by reason of the person
being a witness to that act; or
      (3)   An attorney by reason of the attorney’s involvement in any criminal
or delinquent child action or proceeding.
   (C)   Division (A) above does not apply to any person who is attempting to
resolve a dispute pertaining to the alleged commission of a criminal offense,
either prior to or subsequent to the filing of a complaint, indictment or
information by participating in the arbitration, mediation, compromise,
settlement or conciliation of that dispute pursuant to an authorization for
arbitration, mediation, compromise, settlement or conciliation of a dispute of
that nature that is conferred by any of the following:
      (1)   A section of the Ohio Revised Code;
      (2)   The Rules of Criminal Procedure, the Rules of Superintendence for
Municipal Courts and County Courts, the Rules of Superintendence for Courts of
Common Pleas or another rule adopted by the Ohio Supreme Court in accordance
with state Constitution, Article IV, § 5;
      (3)   A local rule of court, including, but not limited to, a local rule
of court that relates to alternative dispute resolution or other case
management programs and that authorizes the referral of disputes pertaining to
the alleged commission of certain types of criminal offenses to appropriate and
available arbitration, mediation, compromise, settlement or other conciliation
programs; or
      (4)   The order of a judge of a municipal court, county court, or court
of common pleas.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of intimidation of an
attorney, victim or witness in a criminal case. A violation of division (A)
above is a misdemeanor of the first degree. A violation of division (B) above
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (E)   As used in this section, WITNESS means any person who has or claims to
have knowledge concerning a fact or facts concerning a criminal or delinquent
act, whether or not criminal or delinquent child charges are actually filed.
(R.C. § 2921.04)
Statutory reference:
   Retaliation, felony offense, see R.C. § 2921.05
§ 136.18 USING SHAM LEGAL PROCESS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      LAWFULLY ISSUED. Adopted, issued or rendered in accordance with the
United States Constitution, the Constitution of a state, and the applicable
statutes, rules, regulations and ordinances of the United States, a state and
the political subdivisions of a state.
      POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS. Municipal corporations, townships, counties,
school districts and all other bodies corporate and politic that are organized
under state law and are responsible for governmental activities only in
geographical areas smaller than that of a state.
      SHAM LEGAL PROCESS. An instrument that meets all of the following
conditions.
         (a)   It is not lawfully issued.
         (b)   It purports to do any of the following:
            1.   To be a summons, subpoena, judgment or order of a court, a law
enforcement officer or a legislative, executive or administrative body;
            2.   To assert jurisdiction over or determine the legal or
equitable status, rights, duties, powers or privileges of any person or
property; or
            3.   To require or authorize the search, seizure, indictment,
arrest, trial or sentencing of any person or property.
         (c)   It is designed to make another person believe that it is
lawfully issued.
      STATE. A state of the United States, including without limitation the
state legislature, the highest court of the state that has statewide
jurisdiction, the offices of all elected state officers and all departments,
boards, offices, commissions, agencies, institutions and other
instrumentalities of the state. The term does not include the political
subdivisions of the state.
   (B)   No person shall, knowing the sham legal process to be a sham legal
process, do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly issue, display, deliver, distribute or otherwise use sham
legal process;
      (2)   Knowingly use sham legal process to arrest, detain, search or seize
any person or the property of another person;
      (3)   Knowingly commit or facilitate the commission of an offense using
sham legal process; and/or
      (4)   Knowingly commit a felony by using sham legal process.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B)(1) or (B)
(2) above that the use of sham legal process was for a lawful purpose.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of using sham legal process. A
violation of division (B)(1) above is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. A
violation of division (B)(2) or (B)(3) above is a misdemeanor of the first
degree, except that if the purpose of a violation of division (B)(3) above is
to commit or facilitate the commission of a felony, a violation of division (B)
(3) above is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation
of division (B)(4) above is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
(R.C. § 2921.52(A) - (D))
Statutory reference:
   Civil liability, see R.C. § 2921.52(E)
§ 136.19 MAKING FALSE ALLEGATION OF PEACE OFFICER MISCONDUCT.
   (A)   As used in this section, PEACE OFFICER has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2935.01.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly file a complaint against a peace officer
that alleges that the peace officer engaged in misconduct in the performance of
the officer’s duties if the person knows that the allegation is false.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) above is guilty of making a false
allegation of peace officer misconduct, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.15)
§ 136.20 MISUSE OF 911 SYSTEM.
   (A)   As used in this section, 911 SYSTEM means a system through which
individuals can request emergency service using the telephone number 911.
(R.C. § 128.01(A))
   (B)   No person shall knowingly use the telephone number of a 911 system
established under R.C. Chapter 128 to report an emergency if the person knows
that no emergency exists.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly use a 911 system for a purpose other than
obtaining emergency service.
   (D)   No person shall disclose or use any information concerning telephone
numbers, addresses or names obtained from the database that serves the public
safety answering point of a 911 system established under R.C. Chapter 128,
except for any of the following purposes or under any of the following
circumstances:
      (1)   For the purpose of the 911 system;
      (2)   For the purpose of responding to an emergency call to an emergency
service provider;
      (3)   In the circumstance of the inadvertent disclosure of such
information due solely to technology of the wireless telephone network portion
of the 911 system not allowing access to the database to be restricted to 911
specific answering lines at a public safety answering point;
      (4)   In the circumstance of access to a database being given by a
telephone company that is a wireless service provider to a public utility or
municipal utility in handling customer calls in times of public emergency or
service outages. The charge, terms and conditions for the disclosure or use of
such information for the purpose of such access to a database shall be subject
to the jurisdiction of the Steering Committee; and
      (5)   In the circumstance of access to a database given by a telephone
company that is a wireline service provider to a state and local government in
warning of a public emergency, as determined by the Steering Committee. The
charge, terms and conditions for the disclosure or use of that information for
the purpose of access to a database is subject to the jurisdiction of the
Steering Committee.
(R.C. § 128.32(E) - (G))
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) above is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the fourth degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) above is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 128.99(A), (B))
§ 136.21 FAILURE TO DISCLOSE PERSONAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   No person who is in a public place shall refuse to disclose the
person’s name, address or date of birth, when requested by a law enforcement
officer who reasonably suspects either of the following:
      (1)   The person is committing, has committed or is about to commit a
criminal offense; or
      (2)   The person witnessed any of the following:
         (a)   An offense of violence that would constitute a felony under the
laws of this state;
         (b)   A felony offense that causes or results in, or creates a
substantial risk of, serious physical harm to another person or property;
         (c)   Any attempt or conspiracy to commit, or complicity in
committing, any offenses identified in division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) above;
or
         (d)   Any conduct reasonably indicating that any offense identified in
division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) above or any attempt, conspiracy or complicity
described in division (A)(2)(c) above has been, is being or is about to be
committed.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) above is guilty of failure to disclose
one’s personal information, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (C)   Nothing in division (A) above requires a person to answer any
questions beyond that person’s name, address or date of birth. Nothing in
division (A) above authorizes a law enforcement officer to arrest a person for
not providing any information beyond the person’s name, address or date of
birth or for refusing to describe the offense observed.
   (D)   It is not a violation of division (A) above to refuse to answer a
question that would reveal a person’s age or date of birth if age is an element
of the crime that the person is suspected of committing.
(R.C. § 2921.29)
   (E)   No person entering an airport, train station, port or other similar
critical transportation infrastructure site shall refuse to show identification
when requested by a law enforcement officer when there is a threat to security
and the law enforcement officer is requiring identification of all persons
entering the site.
   (F)   A law enforcement officer may prevent any person who refuses to show
identification when asked under the circumstances described in division (E)
above from entering the critical transportation infrastructure site.
(R.C. § 2909.31)
§ 136.22 ILLEGAL CONVEYANCE OF TOBACCO AND/OR TOBACCO PRODUCTS ONTO THE GROUNDS
OF A DETENTION FACILITY.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly convey, or attempt to convey, onto the
grounds of a detention facility any tobacco and/or tobacco products.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any person who conveys
or attempts to convey an item onto the grounds of a detention facility pursuant
to the written authorization of the person in charge of the detention facility
or the institution and in accordance with the written rules of the detention
facility or the institution.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly deliver, or attempt to deliver, to any
person who is confined in a detention facility any tobacco and/or tobacco
products.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section or commits a violation
of division (C) of this section is guilty of illegal conveyance of tobacco and/
or tobacco products onto the grounds of a detention facility, a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
   (E)   When a person is found guilty of this section, the court shall
sentence the offender to all of the following:
      (1)   A mandatory minimum jail term of three days. If the court imposes a
mandatory three-day jail term under this division, the court may impose a jail
term in addition to that term, provided that in no case shall the cumulative
jail term imposed for the offense exceed six months; and
      (2)   A fine of not less than $250 and not more than $1,000.
   (F)   The mandatory minimum jail days expenses required by conviction shall
be covered by the detention facility. Any jail days over the mandatary minimum
sentence shall be at city expense.
(Ord. 35-22, passed 5-9-2022)
CHAPTER 137: WEAPONS CONTROL
Section
   
137.01   Definitions
   
137.02   Carrying a concealed weapon
   
137.03   Using weapons while intoxicated
   
137.04   Improperly handling firearms in a motor vehicle
   
137.05   Unlawful possession of dangerous ordnance
   
137.06   Failure to secure dangerous ordnance
   
137.07   Unlawful transactions in weapons
   
137.08   Improperly furnishing firearms to a minor
   
137.09   Sale of explosives to minors
   
137.10   Sale to resident; purchaser’s form
   
137.11   Restrictions on possession, sale and use
   
137.12   Fireworks display permits
   
137.13   Discharging firearms, crossbows, bows and sling shots
   
137.14   Possessing criminal tools
   
137.15   Underage purchase of firearm or handgun
   
137.16   Pointing and discharging firearms and other weapons
   
137.17   License or permit to possess dangerous ordnance
   
137.18   Possession of an object indistinguishable from a firearm in a school
safety zone
   
137.19   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention
   
137.20   Concealed handgun licenses; possession of a revoked or suspended
license; additional restrictions; posting of signs prohibiting possession
   
137.21   Defaced firearms
Cross-reference:
   Conveyance into certain facilities, see §
136.13
   Injury to persons by hunters, see §
135.08
   Injury to property by hunters, see §
131.27
   Using weapons to endanger or damage aircraft or airport operations, see §
131.22
Statutory reference:
   Return of surrendered firearms by law enforcement, see R.C. § 2923.163
§ 137.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTIVE DUTY. Has the same meaning as defined in 10 U.S.C. § 101.
   ALIEN REGISTRATION NUMBER. The number issued by the United States
Citizenship and Immigration Services Agency that is located on the alien’s
permanent resident card and may also be commonly referred to as the “USCIS
number” or the “alien number”.
   AUTOMATIC FIREARM. Any firearm designed or specially adapted to fire a
succession of cartridges with a single function of the trigger.
   BALLISTIC KNIFE. A knife with a detachable blade that is propelled by a
spring-operated mechanism.
   CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSE or LICENSE TO CARRY A CONCEALED HANDGUN.
      (1)   Means, subject to division (2) below, a license or temporary
emergency license to carry a concealed handgun issued under R.C. § 2923.125 or
R.C. § 2923.1213 or a license to carry a concealed handgun issued by another
state with which the Attorney General has entered into a reciprocity agreement
under R.C. § 109.69.
      (2)   A reference in any provision of this Code to a concealed handgun
license issued under R.C. § 2923.125 or a license to carry a concealed handgun
issued under R.C. § 2923.125 means only a license of the type that is specified
in that section. A reference in any provision of this Code to a concealed
handgun license issued under R.C. § 2923.1213, a license to carry a concealed
handgun issued under R.C. § 2923.1213, or a license to carry a concealed
handgun on a temporary emergency basis means only a license of the type that is
specified in R.C. § 2923.1213. A reference in any provision of this Code to a
concealed handgun license issued by another state or a license to carry a
concealed handgun issued by another state means only a license issued by
another state with which the Attorney General has entered into a reciprocity
agreement under R.C. § 109.69.
   DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
      (1)   Any of the following, except as provided in division (2) below:
         (a)   Any automatic or sawed-off firearm, zip-gun or ballistic knife;
         (b)   Any explosive device or incendiary device;
         (c)   Nitroglycerin, nitrocellulose, nitrostarch, PETN, cyclonite,
TNT, picric acid, and other high explosives; amatol, tritonal, tetrytol,
pentolite, pecretol, cyclotol and other high explosive compositions; plastic
explosives; dynamite, blasting gelatin, gelatin dynamite, sensitized ammonium
nitrate, liquid-oxygen blasting explosives, blasting powder and other blasting
agents; and any other explosive substance having sufficient brisance or power
to be particularly suitable for use as a military explosive, or for use in
mining, quarrying, excavating or demolitions;
         (d)   Any firearm, rocket launcher, mortar, artillery piece, grenade,
mine, bomb, torpedo or similar weapon, designed and manufactured for military
purposes, and the ammunition for that weapon;
         (e)   Any firearm muffler or suppressor; or
         (f)   Any combination of parts that is intended by the owner for use
in converting any firearm or other device into a dangerous ordnance.
      (2)   The term does not include any of the following:
         (a)   Any firearm, including a military weapon and the ammunition for
that weapon, and regardless of its actual age, that employs a percussion cap or
other obsolete ignition system, or that is designed and safe for use only with
black powder;
         (b)   Any pistol, rifle or shotgun, designed or suitable for sporting
purposes, including a military weapon as issued or as modified, and the
ammunition for that weapon, unless the firearm is an automatic or sawed-off
firearm;
         (c)   Any cannon or other artillery piece that, regardless of its
actual age, is of a type in accepted use prior to 1887, has no mechanical,
hydraulic, pneumatic or other system for absorbing recoil and returning the
tube into battery without displacing the carriage, and is designed and safe for
use only with black powder;
         (d)   Black powder, priming quills and percussion caps possessed and
lawfully used to fire a cannon of a type defined in division (2)(c) above
during displays, celebrations, organized matches or shoots and target practice,
and smokeless and black powder, primers and percussion caps possessed and
lawfully used as a propellant or ignition device in small-arms or small-arms
ammunition;
         (e)   Dangerous ordnance that is inoperable or inert and cannot
readily be rendered operable or activated, and that is kept as a trophy,
souvenir, curio or museum piece;
         (f)   Any device that is expressly excepted from the definition of a
destructive device pursuant to the Gun Control Act of 1968, 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)
(4), as amended, and regulations issued under that act; and
         (g)   Any firearm with an overall length of at least 26 inches that is
approved for sale by the Federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and
Explosives under the “Gun Control Act of 1968”, 82 Stat. 1213, 18 U.S.C. § 921
(a)(3), but that is found by the Bureau not to be regulated under the “National
Firearms Act”, 68A Stat. 725 (1934), 26 U.S.C. § 5845(a).
   DEADLY WEAPON. Any instrument, device or thing capable of inflicting death,
and designed or specially adapted for use as a weapon, or possessed, carried or
used as a weapon.
   EXPLOSIVE. Any chemical compound, mixture or device, the primary or common
purpose of which is to function by explosion. The term includes all materials
that have been classified as division 1.1, division 1.2, division 1.3 or
division 1.4 explosives by the United States Department of Transportation in
its regulations and includes, but is not limited to, dynamite, black powder,
pellet powders, initiating explosives, blasting caps, electric blasting caps,
safety fuses, fuse igniters, squibs, cordeau detonant fuses, instantaneous
fuses and igniter cords and igniters. The term does not include FIREWORKS, as
defined in R.C. § 3743.01, or any substance or material otherwise meeting the
definition of explosive set forth in this section that is manufactured, sold,
possessed, transported, stored or used in any activity described in R.C. §
3743.80, provided the activity is conducted in accordance with all applicable
laws, rules and regulations, including, but not limited to, the provisions of
R.C. § 3743.80 and the rules of the Fire Marshal adopted pursuant to R.C. §
3737.82.
   EXPLOSIVE DEVICE. Any device designed or specially adapted to cause physical
harm to persons or property by means of an explosion, and consisting of an
explosive substance or agency and a means to detonate it. The term includes
without limitation any bomb, any explosive demolition device, any blasting cap
or detonator containing an explosive charge, and any pressure vessel that has
been knowingly tampered with or arranged so as to explode.
   FIREARM.
      (1)   Any deadly weapon capable of expelling or propelling one or more
projectiles by the action of an explosive or combustible propellant. The term
includes an unloaded firearm, and any firearm that is inoperable but that can
readily be rendered operable.
      (2)   When determining whether a firearm is capable of expelling or
propelling one or more projectiles by the action of an explosive or combustible
propellant, the trier of fact may rely upon circumstantial evidence, including,
but not limited to, the representations and actions of the individual
exercising control over the firearm.
   HANDGUN. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any firearm that has a short stock and is designed to be held and
fired by the use of a single hand; and
      (2)   Any combination of parts from which a firearm of a type described
in division (1) above can be assembled.
   INCENDIARY DEVICE. Any firebomb, and any device designed or specially
adapted to cause physical harm to persons or property by means of fire, and
consisting of an incendiary substance or agent and a means to ignite it.
   MISDEMEANOR PUNISHABLE BY IMPRISONMENT FOR A TERM EXCEEDING ONE YEAR. The
phrase does not include any of the following:
      (1)   Any federal or state offense pertaining to antitrust violations,
unfair trade practices, restraints of trade or other similar offenses relating
to the regulation of business practices; and/or
      (2)   Any misdemeanor offense punishable by a term of imprisonment of two
years or less.
   SAWED-OFF FIREARM. A shotgun with a barrel less than 18 inches long, or a
rifle with a barrel less than 16 inches long, or a shotgun or rifle less than
26 inches long overall. SAWED-OFF FIREARM does not include any firearm with an
overall length of at least 26 inches that is approved for sale by the Federal
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives under the “Gun Control Act
of 1968”, 82 Stat. 1213, 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)(3), but that is found by the Bureau
not to be regulated under the “National Firearms Act”, 68A Stat. 725 (1934), 26
U.S.C. § 5845(a).
   SEMI-AUTOMATIC FIREARM. Any firearm designed or specially adapted to fire a
single cartridge and automatically chamber a succeeding cartridge ready to
fire, with a single function of the trigger.
   VALID CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSE or VALID LICENSE TO CARRY A CONCEALED
HANDGUN. A concealed handgun license that is currently valid, that is not under
a suspension under R.C. § 2923.128(A)(1), under R.C. § 2923.1213 or under a
suspension provision of the state other than this state in which the license
was issued, and that has not been revoked under R.C. § 2923.128(B)(1), under
R.C. § 2923.1213 or under a revocation provision of the state other than this
state in which the license was issued.
   ZIP-GUN. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any firearm of crude and extemporized manufacture;
      (2)   Any device, including without limitation a starter’s pistol, not
designed as a firearm, but that is specially adapted for use as a firearm; and
      (3)   Any industrial tool, signaling device or safety device, not
designed as a firearm, but that as designed is capable of use as such, when
possessed, carried or used as a firearm.
(R.C. § 2923.11) (Prior Code, § 9.10.01)
§ 137.02 CARRYING A CONCEALED WEAPON.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly carry or have, concealed on the person’s
person or concealed ready at hand, any of the following:
      (1)   A deadly weapon other than a handgun;
      (2)   A handgun other than a dangerous ordnance; and
      (3)   A dangerous ordnance.
   (B)   No person who has been issued a concealed handgun license shall do any
of the following:
      (1)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and is
carrying a concealed handgun, before or at the time a law enforcement officer
asks if the person is carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to disclose
that the person then is carrying a concealed handgun, provided that it is not a
violation of this division if the person fails to disclose that fact to an
officer during the stop and the person already has notified another officer of
that fact during the same stop;
      (2)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and is
carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to keep the person’s hands in
plain sight at any time after any law enforcement officer begins approaching
the person while stopped and before the law enforcement officer leaves, unless
the failure is pursuant to and in accordance with directions given by a law
enforcement officer;
      (3)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose, if the
person is carrying a concealed handgun, and if the person is approached by any
law enforcement officer while stopped, knowingly remove or attempt to remove
the loaded handgun from the holster, pocket or other place in which the person
is carrying it, knowingly grasp or hold the loaded handgun, or knowingly have
contact with the loaded handgun by touching it with the person’s hands or
fingers at any time after the law enforcement officer begins approaching and
before the law enforcement officer leaves, unless the person removes, attempts
to remove, grasps, holds or has contact with the loaded handgun pursuant to and
in accordance with directions given by the law enforcement officer; or
      (4)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and is
carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly disregard or fail to comply with any
lawful order of any law enforcement officer given while the person is stopped,
including, but not limited to, a specific order to the person to keep the
person’s hands in plain sight.
   (C)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   An officer, agent or employee of this or any other state or the
United States, or to a law enforcement officer, who is authorized to carry
concealed weapons or dangerous ordnance or is authorized to carry handguns and
is acting within the scope of the officer’s, agent’s or employee’s duties;
         (b)   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry concealed weapons or dangerous ordnance or is authorized to carry
handguns, and who is subject to and in compliance with the requirements of R.C.
§ 109.801, unless the appointing authority of the person has expressly
specified that the exemption provided in this division (C)(1)(b) does not apply
to the person;
         (c)   A person’s transportation or storage of a firearm, other than a
firearm described in R.C. § 2923.11(G) to (M), in a motor vehicle for any
lawful purpose if the firearm is not on the actor’s person; and
         (d)   A person’s storage or possession of a firearm, other than a
firearm described in R.C. § 2923.11(G) to (M), in the actor’s own home for any
lawful purpose.
      (2)   Division (A)(2) of this section does not apply to any person who
has been issued a concealed handgun license that is valid at the time of the
alleged carrying or possession of a handgun or who, at the time of the alleged
carrying or possession of a handgun, is an active duty member of the armed
forces of the United States and is carrying a valid military identification
card and documentation of successful completion of firearms training that meets
or exceeds the training requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), unless
the person knowingly is in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(1) above
of carrying or having control of a weapon other than a handgun and other than a
dangerous ordnance, that the actor was not otherwise prohibited by law from
having the weapon, and that any of the following applies:
      (1)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for
defensive purposes, while the actor was engaged in or was going to or from the
actor’s lawful business or occupation, which business or occupation was of a
character or was necessarily carried on in a manner or at a time or place as to
render the actor particularly susceptible to criminal attack, such as would
justify a prudent person in going armed.
      (2)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for
defensive purposes, while the actor was engaged in a lawful activity and had
reasonable cause to fear a criminal attack upon the actor, a member of the
actor’s family, or the actor’s home, such as would justify a prudent person in
going armed.
      (3)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for any
lawful purpose and while in the actor’s own home.
   (E)   (1)   No person who is charged with a violation of this section shall
be required to obtain a concealed handgun license as a condition for the
dismissal of the charge.
      (2)   If a person is convicted of, was convicted of, pleads guilty to, or
has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (B)(1) of this section as it
existed prior to June 13, 2022, the person may file an application under R.C. §
2953.37 requesting the expungement of the record of conviction.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of carrying concealed
weapons. Except as otherwise provided in this division or divisions (F)(2), (F)
(6) and (F)(7) below, carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (A)
above is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Except as otherwise provided in
this division or divisions (F)(2), (F)(6) and (F)(7) below, if the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of this section or any
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance or of any offense of
violence, if the weapon involved is a firearm that is either loaded or for
which the offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the weapon involved is
dangerous ordnance, carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (A)
above is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. Except as
otherwise provided in divisions (F)(2), (F)(6) and (F)(7) below, if the offense
is committed aboard an aircraft, or with purpose to carry a concealed weapon
aboard an aircraft, regardless of the weapon involved, carrying concealed
weapons in violation of division (A) above is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   A person shall not be arrested for a violation of division (A)(2)
of this section solely because the person does not promptly produce a valid
concealed handgun license. If a person is arrested for a violation of division
(A)(2) of this section and is convicted of or pleads guilty to the violation,
the offender shall be punished as follows:
         (a)   The offender shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor if both of
the following apply.
            1.   Within ten days after the arrest, the offender presents a
concealed handgun license, which license was valid at the time of the arrest to
the law enforcement agency that employs the arresting officer.
            2.   At the time of the arrest, the offender was not knowingly in a
place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
         (b)   The offender shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined
$500 if all of the following apply.
            1.   The offender previously had been issued a concealed handgun
license, and that license expired within the two years immediately preceding
the arrest.
            2.   Within 45 days after the arrest, the offender presents a
concealed handgun license to the law enforcement agency that employed the
arresting officer, and the offender waives in writing the offender’s right to a
speedy trial on the charge of the violation that is provided in R.C. § 2945.71.
            3.   At the time of the commission of the offense, the offender was
not knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
         (c)   If divisions (F)(2)(a) and (F)(2)(b) and (F)(6) below do not
apply, the offender shall be punished under division (F)(1) above or division
(F)(7) below.
      (3)   Carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (B)(1) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (4)   Carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (B)(2) or (B)
(4) above is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (B)(2) or
(B)(4) above or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. In addition to any other
penalty or sanction imposed for a misdemeanor violation of division (B)(2) or
(B)(4) above, the offender’s concealed handgun license shall be suspended
pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2).
      (5)   Carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (B)(3) above is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (6)   If a person being arrested for a violation of division (A)(2) above
is an active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is
carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), and if, at the time of the violation, the
person was not knowingly in a place described in R.C. 2923.126(B), the officer
shall not arrest the person for a violation of that division. If the person is
not able to promptly produce a valid military identification card and
documentation of successful completion of firearms training that meets or
exceeds the training requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1) and if the
person is not in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B), the officer shall
issue a citation and the offender shall be assessed a civil penalty of not more
than $500. The citation shall be automatically dismissed and the civil penalty
shall not be assessed if both of the following apply:
         (a)   Within ten days after the issuance of the citation, the offender
presents a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), which were both valid at the time of the
issuance of the citation to the law enforcement agency that employs the citing
officer.
         (b)   At the time of the citation, the offender was not knowingly in a
place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
      (7)   If a person being arrested for a violation of division (A)(2) above
is knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B)(5) and is not
authorized to carry a handgun or have a handgun concealed on the person’s
person or concealed ready at hand under that division, the penalty shall be as
follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person
produces a valid concealed handgun license within ten days after the arrest and
has not previously been convicted or pleaded guilty to a violation of division
(A)(2) above or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
the person is guilty of a minor misdemeanor;
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person has
previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (A)
(2) above or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, the
person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
         (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person has
previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division
(A)(2) above or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree;
         (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person has
previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of
division (A)(2) above or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, or convicted of or pleaded guilty to any offense of violence, if the
weapon involved is a firearm that is either loaded or for which the offender
has ammunition ready at hand, or if the weapon involved is a dangerous
ordnance, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (G)   If a law enforcement officer stops a person to question the person
regarding a possible violation of this section, for a traffic stop, or for any
other law enforcement purpose, if the person surrenders a firearm to the
officer, either voluntarily or pursuant to a request or demand of the officer,
and if the officer does not charge the person with a violation of this section
or arrest the person for any offense, the person is not otherwise prohibited by
law from possessing the firearm, and the firearm is not contraband, the officer
shall return the firearm to the person at the termination of the stop. If a
court orders a law enforcement officer to return a firearm to a person pursuant
to the requirement set forth in this division, R.C. § 2923.163(B) applies.
   (H)   For purposes of this section, “deadly weapon” or “weapon” does not
include any knife, razor or cutting instrument if the instrument was not used
as a weapon.
(R.C. § 2923.12) (Prior Code, § 9.10.02)
Statutory reference:
   Carrying concealed handguns, licensing through county sheriff, see R.C. §§
2923.124 et seq.
   Concealed carry by a qualifying adult, see R.C. § 2923.111
   Conveyance or possession of deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance on school
premises, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.122
   Conveyance, possession, or control of deadly weapon or dangerous ordinance
in a courthouse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.123
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, felony offense, see R.C.
§ 2923.131
   Possession of firearm in liquor permit premises, felony offense, see R.C. §
2923.121
§ 137.03 USING WEAPONS WHILE INTOXICATED.
   (A)   No person, while under the influence of alcohol or any drug of abuse,
shall carry or use any firearm or dangerous ordnance.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of using weapons while
intoxicated, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2923.15) (Prior Code, § 9.10.03)
§ 137.04 IMPROPERLY HANDLING FIREARMS IN A MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly discharge a firearm while in or on a motor
vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a loaded firearm in a
motor vehicle in such a manner that the firearm is accessible to the operator
or any passenger without leaving the vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a firearm in a motor
vehicle, unless the person may lawfully possess that firearm under applicable
law of this state or the United States, the firearm is unloaded, and the
firearm is carried in one of the following ways:
      (1)   In a closed package, box or case;
      (2)   In a compartment that can be reached only by leaving the vehicle;
      (3)   In plain sight and secured in a rack or holder made for the
purpose; and
      (4)   If the firearm is at least 24 inches in overall length as measured
from the muzzle to the part of the stock furthest from the muzzle and if the
barrel is at least 18 inches in length, either in plain sight with the action
open or the weapon stripped, or, if the firearm is of a type on which the
action will not stay open or which cannot easily be stripped, in plain sight.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a loaded handgun in a
motor vehicle if, at the time of that transportation or possession, any of the
following applies:
      (1)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse or a
combination of them; and
      (2)   The person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath or urine
contains a concentration of alcohol, a listed controlled substance or a listed
metabolite of a controlled substance prohibited for persons operating a
vehicle, as specified in R.C. § 4511.19(A), regardless of whether the person at
the time of the transportation or possession as described in this division is
the operator of or a passenger in the motor vehicle.
   (E)   No person who has been issued a concealed handgun license or who is an
active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is carrying a
valid military identification card and documentation of successful completion
of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements described
in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), who is the driver or an occupant of a motor vehicle
that is stopped as a result of a traffic stop or a stop for another law
enforcement purpose or is the driver or an occupant of a commercial motor
vehicle that is stopped by an employee of the motor carrier enforcement unit
for the purposes defined in R.C. § 5503.34, and who is transporting or has a
loaded handgun in the motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle in any manner,
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Before or at the time a law enforcement officer asks if the person
is carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to disclose that the person
then possesses or has a loaded handgun in the motor vehicle, provided that it
is not a violation of this division if the person fails to disclose that fact
to an officer during the stop and the person already has notified another
officer of that fact during the same stop;
      (2)   Before or at the time an employee of the motor carrier enforcement
unit asks if the person is carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to
disclose that the person then possesses or has a loaded handgun in the
commercial motor vehicle, provided that it is not a violation of this division
if the person fails to disclose that fact to an employee of the unit during the
stop and the person already has notified another employee of the unit of that
fact during the same stop;
      (3)   Knowingly fail to remain in the motor vehicle while stopped, or
knowingly fail to keep the person’s hands in plain sight at any time after any
law enforcement officer begins approaching the person while stopped and before
the law enforcement officer leaves, unless the failure is pursuant to and in
accordance with directions given by a law enforcement officer;
      (4)   Knowingly have contact with the loaded handgun by touching it with
the person’s hands or fingers in the motor vehicle at any time after the law
enforcement officer begins approaching and before the law enforcement officer
leaves, unless the person has contact with the loaded handgun pursuant to and
in accordance with directions given by the law enforcement officer.
      (5)   Knowingly disregard or fail to comply with any lawful order of any
law enforcement officer given while the motor vehicle is stopped, including,
but not limited to, a specific order to the person to keep the person’s hands
in plain sight.
   (F)   (1)   Divisions (A), (B), (C) and (E) above do not apply to any of the
following:
         (a)   An officer, agent or employee of this or any other state or the
United States, or a law enforcement officer, when authorized to carry or have
loaded or accessible firearms in motor vehicles and acting within the scope of
the officer’s, agent’s or employee’s duties;
         (b)   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry or have loaded or accessible firearms in motor vehicles, and who is
subject to and in compliance with the requirements of R.C. § 109.801, unless
the appointing authority of the person has expressly specified that the
exemption provided in this division (F)(1)(b) does not apply to the person.
      (2)   Division (A) above does not apply to a person if all of the
following circumstances apply:
         (a)   The person discharges a firearm from a motor vehicle at a coyote
or groundhog, the discharge is not during the deer gun hunting season as set by
the Chief of the Division of Wildlife of the Department of Natural Resources
and the discharge at the coyote or groundhog, but for the operation of this
section, is lawful;
         (b)   The motor vehicle from which the person discharges the firearm
is on real property that is located in an unincorporated area of a township and
that is either zoned for agriculture or is used for agriculture;
         (c)   The person owns the real property described in division (F)(2)
(b) above, is the spouse or a child of another person who owns that real
property, is a tenant of another person who owns that real property or is the
spouse or a child of a tenant of another person who owns that real property;
and
         (d)   The person does not discharge the firearm in any of the
following manners:
            1.   While under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse or
alcohol and a drug of abuse;
            2.   In the direction of a street, highway or other public or
private property used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking;
            3.   At or into an occupied structure that is a permanent or
temporary habitation; and
            4.   In the commission of any violation of law, including, but not
limited to, a felony that includes, as an essential element, purposely or
knowingly causing or attempting to cause the death of or physical harm to
another and that was committed by discharging a firearm from a motor vehicle.
      (3)   Division (A) above does not apply to a person if all of the
following apply:
         (a)   The person possesses a valid all-purpose vehicle permit issued
under R.C. § 1533.103 by the Chief of the Division of Wildlife;
         (b)   The person discharges a firearm at a wild quadruped or game
bird, as defined in R.C. §
         (c)   The person discharges a firearm from a stationary all-purpose
vehicle, as defined in R.C. § 1531.01, from private or publicly owned lands or
from a motor vehicle that is parked on a road that is owned or administered by
the Division of Wildlife; and
         (d)   The person does not discharge the firearm in any of the
following manners:
            1.   While under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse or
alcohol and a drug of abuse;
            2.   In the direction of a street, a highway or other public or
private property that is used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking;
            3.   At or into an occupied structure that is a permanent or
temporary habitation; and
            4.   In the commission of any violation of law, including, but not
limited to, a felony that includes, as an essential element, purposely or
knowingly causing or attempting to cause the death of or physical harm to
another and that was committed by discharging a firearm from a motor vehicle.
      (4)   Divisions (B) and (C) above do not apply to a person if all of the
following circumstances apply.
         (a)   At the time of the alleged violation of either of those
divisions, the person is the operator of or a passenger in a motor vehicle.
         (b)   The motor vehicle is on real property that is located in an
unincorporated area of a township and that is either zoned for agriculture or
is used for agriculture.
         (c)   The person owns the real property described in division (F)(4)
(b) above, is the spouse or a child of another person who owns that real
property, is a tenant of another person who owns that real property, or is the
spouse or a child of a tenant of another person who owns that real property.
         (d)   The person, prior to arriving at the real property described in
division (F)(4)(b) above, did not transport or possess a firearm in the motor
vehicle in a manner prohibited by division (B) or (C) above while the motor
vehicle was being operated on a street, highway or other public or private
property used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking.
      (5)   Divisions (B) and (C) above do not apply to a person who transports
or possesses a handgun in a motor vehicle if, at the time of that
transportation or possession, both of the following apply:
         (a)   The person transporting or possessing the handgun has been
issued a concealed handgun license that is valid at the time in question or the
person is an active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is
carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1).
         (b)   The person transporting or possessing the handgun is not
knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
      (6)   Divisions (B) and (C) above do not apply to a person if all of the
following apply:
         (a)   The person possesses a valid all-purpose vehicle permit issued
under R.C. § 1533.103 by the Chief of the Division of Wildlife.
         (b)   The person is on or in an all-purpose vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 1531.01 or a motor vehicle during the open hunting season for a wild
quadruped or game bird.
         (c)   The person is on or in an all-purpose vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 1531.01 on private or publicly owned lands or on or in a motor vehicle that
is parked on a road that is owned or administered by the Division of Wildlife.
   (G)   (1)   The affirmative defenses authorized in R.C. § 2923.12(D)(1) and
(D)(2) are affirmative defenses to a charge under division (B) or (C) above
that involves a firearm other than a handgun.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B) or (C)
above of improperly handling firearms in a motor vehicle that the actor
transported or had the firearm in the motor vehicle for any lawful purpose and
while the motor vehicle was on the actor’s own property, provided that this
affirmative defense is not available unless the person, immediately prior to
arriving at the actor’s own property, did not transport or possess the firearm
in a motor vehicle in a manner prohibited by division (B) or (C) above while
the motor vehicle was being operated on a street, highway or other public or
private property used by the public for vehicular traffic.
   (H)   (1)   No person who is charged with a violation of division (B), (C)
or (D) above shall be required to obtain a concealed handgun license as a
condition for the dismissal of the charge.
      (2)   (a)   If a person is convicted of, was convicted of, pleads guilty
to, or has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E) of this section as it
existed prior to September 30, 2011, and the conduct that was the basis of the
violation no longer would be a violation of division (E) of this section on or
after September 30, 2011, or if a person is convicted of, was convicted of,
pleads guilty to, or has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E)(1) or
(E)(2) of this section as it existed prior to June 13, 2022, the person may
file an application under R.C. § 2953.37 requesting the expungement of the
record of conviction.
         (b)   If a person is convicted of, was convicted of, pleads guilty to
or has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (B) or (C) above as the
division existed prior to September 30, 2011, and if the conduct that was the
basis of the violation no longer would be a violation of division (B) or (C)
above on or after September 30, 2011, due to the application of division (F)(5)
above as it exists on and after September 30, 2011, the person may file an
application under R.C. § 2953.37 requesting the expungement of the record of
conviction.
   (I)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of improperly handling
firearms in a motor vehicle. A violation of division (A) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of division
(C) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. A violation of
division (D) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law and, if the loaded handgun is concealed on the person’s person, it is
also a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of
division (E)(1) or (E)(2) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. A violation of division (E)(4) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of division (E)(3) or (E)
(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division
(E)(3) or (E)(5) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. In
addition to any other penalty or sanction imposed for a misdemeanor violation
of division (E)(3) or (E)(5) of this section, the offender’s concealed handgun
license shall be suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2). A violation of
division (B) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (J)   If a law enforcement officer stops a motor vehicle for a traffic stop
or any other purpose, if any person in the motor vehicle surrenders a firearm
to the officer, either voluntarily or pursuant to a request or demand of the
officer, and if the officer does not charge the person with a violation of this
section or arrest the person for any offense, the person is not otherwise
prohibited by law from possessing the firearm, and the firearm is not
contraband, the officer shall return the firearm to the person at the
termination of the stop. If a court orders a law enforcement officer to return
a firearm to a person pursuant to the requirement set forth in this division,
R.C. § 2923.163(B) applies.
   (K)   As used in this section:
      AGRICULTURE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 519.01.
      COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4506.25(A).
      HIGHWAY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      MOTOR CARRIER ENFORCEMENT UNIT. Means the Motor Carrier Enforcement Unit
in the Department of Public Safety, Division of State Highway Patrol, that is
created by R.C. § 5503.34.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      OCCUPIED STRUCTURE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.01.
      STREET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      TENANT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1531.01.
      UNLOADED.
         (a)   With respect to a firearm other than a firearm described in
division (d) below, means that no ammunition is in the firearm in question, no
magazine or speed loader containing ammunition is inserted into the firearm,
and one of the following applies.
            1.   There is no ammunition in a magazine or speed loader that is
in the vehicle in question and that may be used with the firearm in question.
            2.   Any magazine or speed loader that contains ammunition and that
may be used with the firearm in question is stored in a compartment within the
vehicle in question that cannot be accessed without leaving the vehicle or is
stored in a container that provides complete and separate enclosure.
         (b)   For the purposes of division (a)2. above, a “container that
provides complete and separate enclosure” includes, but is not limited to, any
of the following:
            1.   A package, box or case with multiple compartments, as long as
the loaded magazine or speed loader and the firearm in question either are in
separate compartments within the package, box or case, or, if they are in the
same compartment, the magazine or speed loader is contained within a separate
enclosure in that compartment that does not contain the firearm and that closes
using a snap, button, buckle, zipper, hook and loop closing mechanism or other
fastener that must be opened to access the contents or the firearm is contained
within a separate enclosure of that nature in that compartment that does not
contain the magazine or speed loader; and
            2.   A pocket or other enclosure on the person of the person in
question that closes using a snap, button, buckle, zipper, hook and loop
closing mechanism or other fastener that must be opened to access the contents.
         (c)   For the purposes of divisions (a) and (b) above, ammunition held
in stripper- clips or in en-bloc clips is not considered ammunition that is
loaded into a magazine or speed loader.
         (d)   “Unloaded” means, with respect to a firearm employing a
percussion cap, flintlock or other obsolete ignition system, when the weapon is
uncapped or when the priming charge is removed from the pan.
   (L)   Divisions (a) and (b) of the definition of “unloaded” in division (K)
of this section do not affect the authority of a person who has been issued a
concealed handgun license that is valid at the time in question to have one or
more magazines or speed loaders containing ammunition anywhere in a vehicle,
without being transported as described in those divisions, as long as no
ammunition is in a firearm, other than a handgun, in the vehicle other than as
permitted under any other provision of this chapter. A person who has been
issued a concealed handgun license that is valid at the time in question may
have one or more magazines or speed loaders containing ammunition anywhere in a
vehicle without further restriction, as long as no ammunition is in a firearm,
other than a handgun, in the vehicle other than as permitted under any
provision of this chapter.
(R.C. § 2923.16) (Prior Code, § 9.10.04)
Statutory reference:
   Return of surrendered firearms by law enforcement, see R.C. § 2923.163
§ 137.05 UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly acquire, have, carry or use any dangerous
ordnance.
   (B)   No person shall manufacture or process an explosive at any location in
this state unless the person first has been issued a license, certificate of
registration or permit to do so from a fire official of a political subdivision
of this state or from the office of the fire marshal.
   (C)   Division (A) above does not apply to:
      (1)   Officers, agents or employees of this or any other state or the
United States, members of the armed forces of the United States or the
organized militia of this or any other state, and law enforcement officers, to
the extent that any such person is authorized to acquire, have, carry or use
dangerous ordnance and is acting within the scope of the person’s duties;
      (2)   Importers, manufacturers, dealers and users of explosives, having a
license or user permit issued and in effect pursuant to the “Organized Crime
Control Act of 1970”, 84 Stat. 952, 18 U.S.C. 843 and any amendments or
additions thereto or reenactments thereof, with respect to explosives and
explosive devices lawfully acquired, possessed, carried or used under the laws
of this state and applicable federal law;
      (3)   Importers, manufacturers, and dealers having a license to deal in
destructive devices or their ammunition, issued and in effect pursuant to the
“Gun Control Act of 1968”, 82 Stat. 1213, 18 U.S.C. 923 and any amendments or
additions thereto or reenactments thereof, with respect to dangerous ordnance
lawfully acquired, possessed, carried or used under the laws of this state and
applicable federal law;
      (4)   Persons to whom surplus ordnance has been sold, loaned or given by
the secretary of the army pursuant to 70A Stat. 262 and 263, 10 U.S.C. 4684,
4685 and 4686, and any amendments or additions thereto or reenactments thereof,
with respect to dangerous ordnance when lawfully possessed and used for the
purposes specified in such section;
      (5)   Owners of dangerous ordnance registered in the national firearms
registration and transfer record pursuant to the act of October 22, 1968, 82
Stat. 1229, 26 U.S.C. 5841 and any amendments or additions thereto or
reenactments thereof, and regulations issued thereunder.
      (6)   Carriers, warehouses and others engaged in the business of
transporting or storing goods for hire, with respect to dangerous ordnance
lawfully transported or stored in the usual course of their business and in
compliance with the laws of this state and applicable federal law;
      (7)   The holders of a license or temporary permit issued and in effect
pursuant to R.C. § 2923.18, with respect to dangerous ordnance lawfully
acquired, possessed, carried or used for the purposes and in the manner
specified in such license or permit; and
      (8)   Persons who own a dangerous ordnance that is a firearm muffler or
suppressor attached to a gun that is authorized to be used for hunting by R.C.
§ 1533.16 and who are authorized to use such a dangerous ordnance by R.C. §
1533.04.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) above is guilty of unlawful possession
of dangerous ordnance, a felony of the fifth degree.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (B) above is guilty of illegally
manufacturing or processing explosives, a felony of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2923.17) (Prior Code, § 9.10.05)
§ 137.06 FAILURE TO SECURE DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
   (A)   No person, in acquiring, possessing, carrying or using any dangerous
ordnance, shall negligently fail to take proper precautions:
      (1)   To secure the dangerous ordnance against theft, or against its
acquisition or use by any unauthorized or incompetent person; or
      (2)   To ensure the safety of persons and property.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to a secure
dangerous ordnance, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2923.19) (Prior Code, § 9.10.06)
§ 137.07 UNLAWFUL TRANSACTIONS IN WEAPONS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Recklessly sell, lend, give or furnish any firearm to any person
prohibited by R.C. §§ 2923.13 or 2923.15, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, from acquiring or using any firearm, or recklessly sell,
lend, give or furnish any dangerous ordnance to any person prohibited by R.C.
§§ 2923.13, 2923.15 or 2923.17, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, from acquiring or using any dangerous ordnance;
      (2)   Possess any firearm or dangerous ordnance with purpose to dispose
of it in violation of division (A)(1) above;
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) below, knowingly
solicit, persuade, encourage or entice a federally licensed firearms dealer or
private seller to transfer a firearm or ammunition to any person in a manner
prohibited by state or federal law;
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) below, with an intent
to deceive, knowingly provide materially false information to a federally
licensed firearms dealer or private seller;
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) below, knowingly
procure, solicit, persuade, encourage or entice a person to act in violation of
division (A)(3) or (A)(4) above;
      (6)   When transferring any dangerous ordnance to another, negligently
fail to require the transferee to exhibit such identification, license or
permit showing the transferee to be authorized to acquire dangerous ordnance
pursuant to R.C. § 2923.17, or negligently fail to take a complete record of
the transaction and forthwith forward a copy of the record to the sheriff of
the county or Safety Director or Police Chief of the municipality where the
transaction takes place;
      (7)   Knowingly fail to report to law enforcement authorities forthwith
the loss or theft of any firearm or dangerous ordnance in the person’s
possession and under his or her control.
   (B)   Divisions (A)(3), (A)(4) and (A)(5) above do not apply to any of the
following:
      (1)   A law enforcement officer who is acting within the scope of the
officer’s duties; or
      (2)   A person who is acting in accordance with directions given by a law
enforcement officer described in division (B)(1) above.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful transactions in
weapons. A violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4) or (A)(5) above
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of
division (A)(6) above is a misdemeanor of the second degree. A violation of
division (A)(7) above is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      AMMUNITION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.401.
      FEDERALLY LICENSED FIREARMS DEALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5502.63.
      MATERIALLY FALSE INFORMATION. Information regarding the transfer of a
firearm or ammunition that portrays an illegal transaction as legal or a legal
transaction as illegal.
      PRIVATE SELLER. A person who sells, offers for sale or transfers a
firearm or ammunition and who is not a federally licensed firearms dealer.
(R.C. § 2923.20) (Prior Code, § 9.10.07)
§ 137.08 IMPROPERLY FURNISHING FIREARMS TO A MINOR.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Sell any firearm to a person who is under 18 years of age;
      (2)   Subject to division (B) below, sell any handgun to a person who is
under 21 years of age;
      (3)   Furnish any firearm to a person who is under 18 years of age or,
subject to division (B) below, furnish any handgun to a person who is under 21
years of age, except for lawful hunting, sporting or educational purposes,
including, but not limited to, instruction in firearms or handgun safety, care,
handling or marksmanship under the supervision or control of a responsible
adult;
      (4)   Sell or furnish a firearm to a person who is 18 years of age or
older if the seller or furnisher knows, or has reason to know, that the person
is purchasing or receiving the firearm for the purpose of selling the firearm
in violation of division (A)(1) above to a person who is under 18 years of age
or for the purpose of furnishing the firearm in violation of division (A)(3)
above to a person who is under 18 years of age;
      (5)   Sell or furnish a handgun to a person who is 21 years of age or
older if the seller or furnisher knows, or has reason to know, that the person
is purchasing or receiving the handgun for the purpose of selling the handgun
in violation of division (A)(2) above to a person who is under 21 years of age
or for the purpose of furnishing the handgun in violation of division (A)(3)
above to a person who is under 21 years of age;
      (6)   Purchase or attempt to purchase any firearm with the intent to sell
the firearm in violation of division (A)(1) above to a person who is under 18
years of age or with the intent to furnish the firearm in violation of division
(A)(3) above to a person who is under eighteen years of age; and
      (7)   Purchase or attempt to purchase any handgun with the intent to sell
the handgun in violation of division (A)(2) above to a person who is under 21
years of age or with the intent to furnish the handgun in violation of division
(A)(3) above to a person who is under 21 years of age.
   (B)   Divisions (A)(1) and (2) above do not apply to the sale or furnishing
of a handgun to a person 18 years of age or older and under 21 years of age if
the person 18 years of age or older and under 21 years of age is a law
enforcement officer who is properly appointed or employed as a law enforcement
officer and has received firearms training approved by the state’s peace
officer training council or equivalent firearms training. Divisions (A)(1) and
(A)(2) above do not apply to the sale or furnishing of a handgun to an active
duty member of the armed forces of the United States who has received firearms
training that meets or exceeds the training requirements described in R.C. §
2923.125(G)(1).
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of improperly furnishing
firearms to a minor, a felony of the fifth degree.
(R.C. § 2923.21) (Prior Code, § 9.10.08)
§ 137.09 SALE OF EXPLOSIVES TO MINORS.
   (A)   No person shall sell, give away or otherwise dispose of or deliver to
any person under 18 years of age any explosives, as defined in R.C. § 3743.01
(A), whether such person is acting for himself or herself or for any other
person.
(R.C. § 3743.02)
   (B)   Whosoever violates this section is guilty of sale of explosives to
minors, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(Prior Code, § 9.10.09)
§ 137.10 SALE TO RESIDENT; PURCHASER’S FORM.
   (A)   (1)   Any person who resides in this state and who intends to obtain
possession in this state of 1.4G fireworks purchased in this state shall obtain
possession of the 1.4G fireworks only from a licensed manufacturer or licensed
wholesaler.
      (2)   Each purchaser of 1.4G fireworks under this division shall
transport the fireworks so purchased directly out of this state within 48 hours
after the time of their purchase.
      (3)   This division does not apply to a person who resides in this state
and who is also a licensed manufacturer, licensed wholesaler or licensed
exhibitor of fireworks in this state.
   (B)   No licensed manufacturer or licensed wholesaler shall sell 1.3G
fireworks to a person who resides in this state unless that person is a
licensed manufacturer, licensed wholesaler or licensed exhibitor of fireworks
in this state.
(R.C. § 3743.45) (Prior Code, § 9.10.10)
§ 137.11 RESTRICTIONS ON POSSESSION, SALE AND USE.
   (A)   No person shall possess fireworks in this municipality or shall
possess for sale or sell fireworks in this municipality, except a licensed
manufacturer of fireworks as authorized by R.C. §§ 3743.02 to 3743.08, a
licensed wholesaler of fireworks as authorized by R.C. §§ 3743.15 to 3743.21, a
shipping permit holder as authorized by R.C. § 3743.40, a licensed fountain
device retailer as authorized by R.C. § 3743.27, a person as authorized by R.C.
§§ 3743.44 and 3743.45, or a licensed exhibitor of fireworks as authorized by
R.C. §§ 3743.50 to 3743.55, or as authorized by any municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to any of these statutes, and except as provided in
R.C. § 3743.80 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (H) below, R.C. §§ 3743.45 and 3743.80
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and except for licensed
exhibitors of fireworks authorized to conduct a fireworks exhibition pursuant
to R.C. §§ 3743.50 through 3743.55 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, no person shall discharge, ignite, or explode any fireworks in this
municipality.
   (C)   No person shall use in a theater or public hall what is technically
known as fireworks showers, or a mixture containing potassium chlorate and
sulphur.
   (D)   No person shall sell fireworks of any kind to a person under 18 years
of age. No person under 18 years of age shall enter a fireworks sales showroom
unless that person is accompanied by a parent, legal guardian, or other
responsible adult. No person under 18 years of age shall touch or possess
fireworks on a licensed premises without the consent of the licensee. A
licensee may eject any person from a licensed premises that is in any way
disruptive to the safe operation of the premises.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 3743.44, no person, other than
a licensed manufacturer, licensed wholesaler, licensed exhibitor or shipping
permit holder shall possess 1.3G fireworks in this municipality.
   (F)   No person shall negligently discharge, ignite or explode fireworks
while in possession or control of, or under the influence of, any intoxicating
liquor, beer or controlled substance.
   (G)   No person shall negligently discharge, ignite or explode fireworks on
the property of another person without that person’s permission to use
fireworks on that property.
(R.C. § 3743.65(A) - (E), (G), (H))
   (H)   Purchase, use and local regulation of consumer-grade fireworks.
      (1)   Any person who intends to obtain possession in this state of 1.4G
fireworks purchased in this state shall obtain possession of the 1.4G fireworks
only from a licensed retailer, licensed manufacturer or licensed wholesaler and
shall be subject to this division (H).
      (2)   Any person authorized under this division (H) to possess 1.4G
fireworks in this state may discharge, ignite, or explode those fireworks on
private property, with authorization from the property owner, on the following
days each year:
         (a)   January 1;
         (b)   Chinese new year’s day;
         (c)   May 5;
         (d)   The last Monday in May, and the Saturday and Sunday immediately
preceding that day;
         (e)   June 19;
         (f)   July 3, 4 and 5;
         (g)   The first Friday, Saturday, and Sunday before and after July 4;
         (h)   The first Monday of September, and the Saturday and Sunday
immediately preceding that day;
         (i)   Diwali; and
         (j)   December 31.
      (3)   Fireworks discharged, ignited or exploded pursuant to this division
(H) shall not be considered a public exhibition.
      (4)   The municipality may do either of the following:
         (a)   Restrict the dates and times a person may discharge, ignite or
explode fireworks purchased pursuant to this division (H); or
         (b)   Ban the discharge, ignition or explosion of fireworks purchased
pursuant to this division (H).
      (5)   This division (H) does not limit the enforcement of any ordinance,
resolution or statute that regulates noise, disturbance of the peace or
disorderly conduct.
(R.C. § 3743.45) (Prior Code, § 9.10.11)
Statutory reference:
   Felony offense for disabling a fire suppression system, see R.C. § 3743.65
(F)
§ 137.12 FIREWORKS DISPLAY PERMITS.
   (A)   An exhibitor of fireworks licensed under R.C. §§ 3743.50 through
3743.55 who wishes to conduct a public fireworks exhibition shall apply for
approval to conduct the exhibition to the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer
and to the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or the
designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer,
having jurisdiction over the premises.
   (B)   The approval required by division (A) above shall be evidenced by the
Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and by the Police Chief or other similar
chief law enforcement officer, or the designee of the Police Chief or similar
chief law enforcement officer, signing a permit for the exhibition. Any
exhibitor of fireworks who wishes to conduct a public fireworks exhibition may
obtain a copy of the form from the State Fire Marshal or, if available, from
the Fire Chief, a fire prevention officer, the Police Chief or other similar
chief law enforcement officer, or a designee of the Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer.
   (C)   Before a permit is signed and issued to a licensed exhibitor of
fireworks, the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer, in consultation with the
Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or the designee of
the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, shall inspect
the premises on which the exhibition will take place and shall determine that,
in fact, the applicant for the permit is a licensed exhibitor of fireworks.
Each applicant shall show his or her license as an exhibitor of fireworks to
the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer.
   (D)   The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and the Police Chief or
other similar chief law enforcement officer, or the designee of the Police
Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, shall give approval to
conduct a public fireworks exhibition only if satisfied, based on the
inspection, that the premises on which the exhibition will be conducted allow
the exhibitor to comply with the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal
pursuant to R.C. § 3743.53(B) and (E) and that the applicant is, in fact, a
licensed exhibitor of fireworks. The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer, in
consultation with the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement
officer or with the designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief law
enforcement officer, may inspect the premises immediately prior to the
exhibition to determine if the exhibitor has complied with the rules, and may
revoke a permit for noncompliance with the rules.
   (E)   If the legislative authority has prescribed a fee for the issuance of
a permit for a public fireworks exhibition, the Fire Chief or fire prevention
officer and Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or his
or her designee, shall not issue a permit until the exhibitor pays the
requisite fee.
   (F)   Each exhibitor shall provide an indemnity bond in the amount of at
least $1,000,000 with surety satisfactory to the Fire Chief or fire prevention
officer and to the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer,
or the designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement
officer, conditioned for the payment of all final judgments that may be
rendered against the exhibitor on account of injury, death or loss to person or
property emanating from the fireworks exhibitor, or proof of insurance coverage
of at least one million dollars for liability arising from injury, death or
loss of persons or property emanating from the fireworks exhibition. The
legislative authority may require the exhibitor to provide an indemnity bond or
proof of insurance coverage in amounts greater than those required by this
division. The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, or his or her designee, shall not issue
a permit until the exhibitor provides the bond or proof of the insurance
coverage required by this division or by the legislative authority.
   (G)   (1)   Each permit for a fireworks exhibition issued by the Fire Chief
or fire prevention officer and by the Police Chief or other similar chief law
enforcement officer, or the designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief
law enforcement officer, shall contain a distinct number, designate the
municipality and identify the certified fire safety inspector, Fire Chief or
fire prevention officer who will be present before, during and after the
exhibition, where appropriate.
      (2)   A copy of each permit issued shall be forwarded by the Fire Chief
or fire prevention officer and by the Police Chief or other similar chief law
enforcement officer, or designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief law
enforcement officer, issuing it to the State Fire Marshal. A permit is not
transferable or assignable.
   (H)   (1)   The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and Police Chief or
other similar chief law enforcement officer, or designee of the Police Chief or
other similar chief law enforcement officer, shall keep a record of issued
permits for fireworks exhibitions.
      (2)   In this list, the Fire Chief, fire prevention officer, Police Chief
or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or designee of the Police Chief
or other similar chief law enforcement officer, shall list the name of the
exhibitor, his or her license number, the premises on which the exhibition will
be conducted, the date and time of the exhibition, and the number and political
subdivision designation of the permit issued to the exhibitor for the
exhibition.
   (I)   The legislative authority shall require that a certified fire safety
inspector, Fire Chief or fire prevention officer be present before, during and
after the exhibition, and shall require the certified fire safety inspector,
Fire Chief or fire prevention officer to inspect the premises where the
exhibition is to take place and determine whether the exhibition is in
compliance with this chapter and R.C. Chapter 3743.
(R.C. § 3743.54(B) - (F)) (Prior Code, § 9.10.12)
Statutory reference:
   Notice of fireworks incident, see R.C. § 3743.541
§ 137.13 DISCHARGING FIREARMS, CROSSBOWS, BOWS AND SLING SHOTS.
   (A)   No person, except as specified in division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)
(4), (A)(5) or (A)(6) below, shall discharge any crossbow, bow, sling shot,
paint ball gun, air gun, rifle, shotgun, revolver, pistol or other firearm
within the corporate limits of the municipality:
      (1)   Archery activities involving the long bow, recurve bow and compound
bow are permitted in indoor facilities properly established pursuant to Chapter
153, and at any other locations, indoors or outdoors, within the corporate
limits of the municipality; provided that written permission has been obtained,
in advance, from the City Manager. Prior to conducting the archery activity,
the sponsor of a facility, owner of a premises or applicant for a specific
event must provide to the City Manager written evidence of liability insurance
coverage and a written plan describing the location and supervision of the
archery activity. If the City Manager is satisfied that the insurance coverage,
the location and the supervision of the activity are sufficient and safe, then
he or she shall issue a permit for the activity, which permit shall be valid
for a period of time as indicated on the permit obtained;
      (2)   The use and discharge of paint ball guns are permitted in indoor
facilities properly established pursuant to Chapter 153, and when in
conformance with regulations which may be issued by the City Manager for the
operation and periodic inspection of such facilities. If all the requirements
and specifications are met, the City Manager may issue a permit for the
activity, valid for a period of time as indicated on the permit obtained;
      (3)   The discharge of firearms are permitted within an indoor firing
range properly established pursuant to Chapter 153, and when in conformance
with regulations which may be issued by the Chief of Police for the operation
and periodic inspection of such facilities. If all the requirements and
specifications are met the Chief of Police will issue a permit for the
activity, valid for a period of time as indicated on the permit obtained;
      (4)   Law enforcement officials in the proper enforcement of the law and
for law enforcement training purposes;
      (5)   Any person in the proper exercise of the right of self-defense; or
      (6)   When otherwise lawfully authorized.
   (B)   Whoever violates this division (A) above is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
(Prior Code, § 9.10.13) (Ord. 51-15, passed 10-13-2015)
§ 137.14 POSSESSING CRIMINAL TOOLS.
   (A)   No person shall possess or have under his or her control any
substance, device, instrument or article, with purpose to use it criminally.
   (B)   Each of the following constitutes prima facie evidence of criminal
purpose:
      (1)   Possession or control of any dangerous ordnance, or the materials
or parts for making a dangerous ordnance, in the absence of circumstances
indicating the dangerous ordnance, materials or parts are intended for a
legitimate use;
      (2)   Possession or control of any substance, device, instrument or
article designed or specially adapted for criminal use; and
      (3)   Possession or control of any substance, device, instrument or
article commonly used for criminal purposes, under circumstances indicating the
item is intended for criminal use.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possessing criminal tools.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, possessing criminal tools is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the circumstances indicate that the
substance, device, instrument or article involved in the offense was intended
for use in the commission of a felony, possessing criminal tools is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2923.24)
§ 137.15 UNDERAGE PURCHASE OF FIREARM OR HANDGUN.
   (A)   No person under 18 years of age shall purchase or attempt to purchase
a firearm.
   (B)   No person under 21 years of age shall purchase or attempt to purchase
a handgun; provided that this division (B) does not apply to the purchase or
attempted purchase of a handgun by a person 18 years of age or older and under
21 years of age if either of the following applies:
      (1)   The person is a law enforcement officer and has received firearms
training approved by the State Peace Officer Training Council or equivalent
firearms training; or
      (2)   The person is an active or reserve member of the armed services of
the United States or the State National Guard, or was honorably discharged from
military service in the active or reserve armed services of the United States
or the State National Guard, and the person has received firearms training from
the armed services or the national guard or equivalent firearms training.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) above is guilty of underage purchase of
a firearm, a delinquent act that would be a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if it could be committed by an adult.Whoever violates
division (B) above is guilty of underage purchase of a handgun, a misdemeanor
of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2923.211)
Statutory reference:
   Improperly furnishing firearms to a minor, felony, see R.C. § 2923.21
§ 137.16 POINTING AND DISCHARGING FIREARMS AND OTHER WEAPONS.
   (A)   Discharge of firearms on or near prohibited premises. No person shall
do any of the following:
      (1)   Without permission from the proper officials and subject to
division (B)(1) below, discharge a firearm upon or over a cemetery or within
100 yards of a cemetery;
      (2)   Subject to division (B)(2) below, discharge of a firearm on a lawn,
park, pleasure ground, orchard or other ground appurtenant to a schoolhouse,
church or inhabited dwelling, the property of another or a charitable
institution; or
      (3)   Discharge a firearm upon or over a public road or highway.
   (B)   Application of division (A) above.
      (1)   Division (A)(1) above does not apply to a person who while on the
person’s own land, discharges a firearm.
      (2)   Division (A)(2) above does not apply to a person who owns any type
of property described in that division and who, while on the person’s own
enclosure, discharges a firearm.
   (C)   Penalty for violation of division (A) above. Whoever violates division
(A) above is guilty of discharge of a firearm on or near prohibited premises. A
violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) above is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. A violation of division (A)(3) shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2) below, a violation
of division (A)(3) above is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the violation created a substantial risk of physical harm to any
person, caused serious physical harm to property, caused physical harm to any
person or caused serious physical harm to any person, a violation of division
(A)(3) above is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2923.162)
   (D)   Hunting near township park.
      (1)   No person shall hunt, shoot or kill game within one-half mile of a
township park unless the Board of Township Park Commissioners has granted
permission to kill game not desired within the limits prohibited by this
division.
(R.C. § 3773.06)
      (2)   Whoever violates division (D)(1) above is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 3773.99(A))
   (E)   Unlawful discharge. No person shall discharge any BB gun, air gun or
firearm, or make use of any sling, bow and arrow or crossbow, within the
corporate limits of the municipality.
   (F)   Unlawful pointing or aiming. No person shall, intentionally and
without malice, point or aim any BB gun, air gun or firearm, or any sling, bow
and arrow or crossbow at or toward another.
   (G)   Penalty for violations of division (E) or (F) above. Whoever violates
division (E) or (F) above is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (H)   Exceptions. This section shall not prohibit the firing of a military
salute or the firing of weapons by persons of the nation’s armed forces acting
under military authority, and shall not apply to law enforcement officials or
other government officials in the proper enforcement of the law, or to any
person in the proper exercise of the right of self defense, or to any person
otherwise lawfully permitted by proper federal, state or local authorities to
discharge a BB gun, air gun or firearm, or to use a sling, bow and arrow or
crossbow in a manner contrary to the provisions of this section. Division (E)
of this section does not extend to cases in which BB guns, air guns or
firearms, or slings, bows and arrows or crossbows are used in the confines of
structures or used within the confines of a person’s own property; provided
such use is under adult supervision and is approved by the municipality.
Statutory reference:
   Improperly discharging firearm at or into habitation or school safety zone,
felony offense, see     R.C. § 2923.161
§ 137.17 LICENSE OR PERMIT TO POSSESS DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
   (A)   Upon application to the sheriff of the county or Safety Director or
Police Chief of the municipality where the applicant resides or has the
applicant’s principal place of business, and upon payment of the fee specified
in division (B) below, a license or temporary permit shall be issued to
qualified applicants to acquire, possess, carry or use a dangerous ordnance for
the following purposes:
      (1)   Contractors, wreckers, quarriers, mine operators and other persons
regularly employing explosives in the course of a legitimate business, with
respect to explosives and explosive devices acquired, possessed, carried or
used in the course of such business;
      (2)   Farmers, with respect to explosives and explosive devices acquired,
possessed, carried or used for agricultural purposes on lands farmed by them;
      (3)   Scientists, engineers and instructors, with respect to a dangerous
ordnance acquired, possessed, carried or used in the course of bona fide
research or instruction;
      (4)   Financial institutions and armored car company guards, with respect
to automatic firearms lawfully acquired, possessed, carried or used by any such
person while acting within the scope of the person’s duties; or
      (5)   In the discretion of the issuing authority, any responsible person,
with respect to a dangerous ordnance lawfully acquired, possessed, carried or
used for a legitimate research, scientific, educational, industrial or other
proper purpose.
   (B)   Application for a license or temporary permit under this section shall
be in writing under oath to the sheriff of the county or Safety Director or
Police Chief of the municipality where the applicant resides or has the
applicant’s principal place of business. The application shall be accompanied
by an application fee of $50 when the application is for a license, and an
application fee of $5 when the application is for a temporary permit. The fees
shall be paid into the General Revenue Fund of the county or municipality. The
application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name, age, address, occupation and business address of the
applicant, if the applicant is a natural person, or the name, address and
principal place of business of the applicant if the applicant is a corporation;
      (2)   A description of the dangerous ordnance for which a permit is
requested;
      (3)   A description of the places where and the manner in which the
dangerous ordnance is to be kept, carried and used;
      (4)   A statement of the purposes for which the dangerous ordnance is to
be acquired, possessed, carried or used; and
      (5)   Such other information as the issuing authority may require in
giving effect to this section.
   (C)   Upon investigation, the issuing authority shall issue a license or
temporary permit only if all of the following apply:
      (1)   The applicant is not otherwise prohibited by law from acquiring,
having, carrying or using a dangerous ordnance;
      (2)   The applicant is 21 years of age or over, if the applicant is a
natural person;
      (3)   It appears that the applicant has sufficient competence to safely
acquire, possess, carry or use the dangerous ordnance, and that proper
precautions will be taken to protect the security of the dangerous ordnance and
ensure the safety of persons and property; and
      (4)   It appears that the dangerous ordnance will be lawfully acquired,
possessed, carried and used by the applicant for a legitimate purpose.
   (D)   The license or temporary permit shall identify the person to whom it
is issued, identify the dangerous ordnance involved and state the purposes for
which the license or temporary permit is issued, state the expiration date, if
any, and list such restrictions on the acquisition, possession, carriage or use
of the dangerous ordnance as the issuing authority considers advisable to
protect the security of the dangerous ordnance and ensure the safety of persons
and property.
   (E)   A temporary permit shall be issued for the casual use of explosives
and explosive devices, and other consumable dangerous ordnance, and shall
expire within 30 days of its issuance. A license shall be issued for the
regular use of consumable dangerous ordnance, or for any non-consumable
dangerous ordnance, which license need not specify an expiration date, but the
issuing authority may specify such expiration date, not earlier than one year
from the date of issuance, as it considers advisable in view of the nature of
the dangerous ordnance and the purposes for which the license is issued.
   (F)   The dangerous ordnance specified in a license or temporary permit may
be obtained by the holder anywhere in the state. Pursuant to R.C. § 2923.18(F),
the holder of a license may use such dangerous ordnance anywhere in the state.
The holder of a temporary permit may use such dangerous ordnance only within
the territorial jurisdiction of the issuing authority.
   (G)   (1)   The issuing authority shall forward to the State Fire Marshal a
copy of each license or temporary permit issued pursuant to this section, and a
copy of each record of a transaction in a dangerous ordnance and of each report
of a lost or stolen dangerous ordnance, given to the local law enforcement
authority as required by R.C. § 2923.20(A)(6) and (A)(7) or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   The State Fire Marshal will keep a permanent file of all licenses
and temporary permits issued pursuant to this section, and of all records of
transactions in, and losses or thefts of a dangerous ordnance forwarded by
local law enforcement authorities pursuant to this section.
(R.C. § 2923.18)
§ 137.18 POSSESSION OF AN OBJECT INDISTINGUISHABLE FROM A FIREARM IN A SCHOOL
SAFETY ZONE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly possess an object in a school safety zone if
both of the following apply:
      (1)   The object is indistinguishable from a firearm, whether or not the
object is capable of being fired; and
      (2)   The person indicates that the person possesses the object and that
it is a firearm, or the person knowingly displays or brandishes the object and
indicates that it is a firearm.
   (B)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   An officer, agent or employee of this or any other state or the
United States who is authorized to carry deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance
and is acting within the scope of the officer’s, agent’s or employee’s duties,
a law enforcement officer who is authorized to carry deadly weapons or
dangerous ordnance, a security officer employed by a board of education or
governing body of a school during the time that the security officer is on duty
pursuant to that contract of employment, or any other person who has written
authorization from the board of education or governing body of a school to
convey deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance into a school safety zone or to
possess a deadly weapon or dangerous ordnance in a school safety zone and who
conveys or possesses the deadly weapon or dangerous ordnance in accordance with
that authorization; and
         (b)   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance, and who is subject to and in
compliance with the requirements of R.C. § 109.801, unless the appointing
authority of the person has expressly specified that the exemption provided in
this division (B)(1)(b) does not apply to the person.
      (2)   This section does not apply to premises upon which home schooling
is conducted. This section also does not apply to a school administrator,
teacher or employee who possesses an object that is indistinguishable from a
firearm for legitimate school purposes during the course of employment, a
student who uses an object that is indistinguishable from a firearm under the
direction of a school administrator, teacher or employee or any other person
who, with the express prior approval of a school administrator, possesses an
object that is indistinguishable from a firearm for a legitimate purpose,
including the use of the object in a ceremonial activity, a play, re-enactment
or other dramatic presentation, school safety training or a ROTC activity or
another similar use of the object.
      (3)   This section does not apply to a person who conveys or attempts to
convey a handgun into, or possesses a handgun in, a school safety zone if, at
the time of that conveyance, attempted conveyance or possession of the handgun,
all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person does not enter into a school building or onto school
premises and is not at a school activity;
         (b)   The person has been issued a concealed handgun license that is
valid at the time of the conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession or the
person is an active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is
carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1).
         (c)   The person is in the school safety zone in accordance with 18
U.S.C. § 922(q)(2)(B); and
         (d)   The person is not knowingly in a place described in R.C. §
2923.126(B)(1) or (B)(3) through (B)(8).
      (4)   This section does not apply to a person who conveys or attempts to
convey a handgun into, or possesses a handgun in, a school safety zone if at
the time of that conveyance, attempted conveyance or possession of the handgun
all of the following apply.
         (a)   The person has been issued a concealed handgun license that is
valid at the time of the conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession or the
person is an active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is
carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1).
         (b)   The person leaves the handgun in a motor vehicle.
         (c)   The handgun does not leave the motor vehicle.
         (d)   If the person exits the motor vehicle, the person locks the
motor vehicle.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal possession of an
object indistinguishable from a firearm in a school safety zone. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, illegal possession of an object
indistinguishable from a firearm in a school safety zone is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation
of this section, illegal possession of an object indistinguishable from a
firearm in a school safety zone is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (D)   (1)   In addition to any other penalty imposed upon a person who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of this section, and subject to
division (D)(2) below, if the offender has not attained 19 years of age,
regardless of whether the offender is attending or is enrolled in a school
operated by a board of education or for which the State Board of Education
prescribes minimum standards under R.C. § 3301.07, the court shall impose upon
the offender a class four suspension of the offender’s probationary driver’s
license, restricted license, driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit or probationary commercial driver’s license that
then is in effect from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4) and shall
deny the offender the issuance of any permit or license of that type during the
period of the suspension. If the offender is not a resident of this state, the
court shall impose a class four suspension of the nonresident operating
privilege of the offender from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
      (2)   If the offender shows good cause why the court should not suspend
one of the types of licenses, permits or privileges specified in division (D)
(1) above or deny the issuance of one of the temporary instruction permits
specified in division (D)(1) above, the court in its discretion may choose not
to impose the suspension, revocation or denial required in division (D)(1)
above, but the court, in its discretion, instead may require the offender to
perform community service for a number of hours determined by the court.
   (E)   As used in this section, OBJECT THAT IS INDISTINGUISHABLE FROM A
FIREARM means an object made, constructed or altered so that, to a reasonable
person without specialized training in firearms, the object appears to be a
firearm.
(R.C. § 2923.122(C) - (G))
Statutory reference:
   Conveyance or possession of deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance in a school
safety zone, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.122(A) and (B)
§ 137.19 POSSESSION OF DEADLY WEAPON WHILE UNDER DETENTION.
   (A)   As used in this section, DETENTION and DETENTION FACILITY have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 2921.01.
   (B)   No person under detention at a detention facility shall possess a
deadly weapon.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possession of a deadly
weapon while under detention.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2) below, possession
of a deadly weapon while under detention is a felony to be prosecuted under
state law.
      (2)   If the offender, at the time of the commission of the offense, was
under detention as an alleged or adjudicated delinquent child or unruly child
and if at the time the offender commits the act for which the offender was
under detention it would not be a felony if committed by an adult, possession
of a deadly weapon while under detention is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2923.131)
Statutory reference:
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, felony offenses, see R.C.
§ 2923.131
§ 137.20 CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSES; POSSESSION OF A REVOKED OR SUSPENDED
LICENSE; ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS; POSTING OF SIGNS PROHIBITING POSSESSION.
   (A)   Possession of a revoked or suspended concealed handgun license.
      (1)   No person, except in the performance of official duties, shall
possess a concealed handgun license that was issued and that has been revoked
or suspended.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (A) is guilty of possessing a
revoked or suspended concealed handgun license, a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. § 2923.1211(B), (C))
   (B)   Additional restrictions. Pursuant to R.C. § 2923.126:
      (1)   A concealed handgun license that is issued under R.C. § 2923.125
shall expire five years after the date of issuance. A licensee who has been
issued a license under that section shall be granted a grace period of 30 days
after the licensee’s license expires during which the licensee’s license
remains valid. Except as provided in divisions (B)(2) and (B)(3) of this
section, a licensee who has been issued a concealed handgun license under R.C.
§ 2923.125 or 2923.1213 may carry a concealed handgun anywhere in this state if
the license is valid when the licensee is in actual possession of a concealed
handgun. The licensee shall give notice of any change in the licensee’s
residence address to the sheriff who issued the license within 45 days after
that change.
      (2)   A valid concealed handgun license does not authorize the licensee
to carry a concealed handgun in any manner prohibited under R.C. § 2923.12(B)
or in any manner prohibited under R.C. § 2923.16. A valid license does not
authorize the licensee to carry a concealed handgun into any of the following
places:
         (a)   A police station, sheriff’s office or state highway patrol
station, premises controlled by the bureau of criminal identification and
investigation; a state correctional institution, jail, workhouse or other
detention facility; any area of an airport passenger terminal that is beyond a
passenger or property screening checkpoint or to which access is restricted
through security measures by the airport authority or a public agency; or an
institution that is maintained, operated, managed and governed pursuant to R.C.
§ 5119.14(A) or R.C. § 5123.03(A)(1);
         (b)   A school safety zone if the licensee’s carrying the concealed
handgun is in violation of R.C. § 2923.122;
         (c)   A courthouse or another building or structure in which a
courtroom is located if the licensee’s carrying the concealed handgun is in
violation of R.C. § 2923.123;
         (d)   Any premises or open air arena for which a D permit has been
issued under R.C. Chapter 4303 if the licensee’s carrying the concealed handgun
is in violation of R.C. § 2923.121;
         (e)   Any premises owned or leased by any public or private college,
university or other institution of higher education, unless the handgun is in a
locked motor vehicle or the licensee is in the immediate process of placing the
handgun in a locked motor vehicle or unless the licensee is carrying the
concealed handgun pursuant to a written policy, rule or other authorization
that is adopted by the institution’s board of trustees or other governing body
and that authorizes specific individuals or classes of individuals to carry a
concealed handgun on the premises;
         (f)   Any church, synagogue, mosque or other place of worship, unless
the church, synagogue, mosque or other place of worship posts or permits
otherwise;
         (g)   Any building that is a government facility of this state or a
political subdivision of this state and that is not a building that is used
primarily as a shelter, restroom, parking facility for motor vehicles or rest
facility and is not a courthouse or other building or structure in which a
courtroom is located that is subject to division (B)(2)(c) above, unless the
governing body with authority over the building has enacted a statute,
ordinance or policy that permits a licensee to carry a concealed handgun into
the building; or
         (h)   A place in which federal law prohibits the carrying of handguns.
      (3)   (a)   Nothing in this division (B) shall negate or restrict a rule,
policy or practice of a private employer that is not a private college,
university or other institution of higher education concerning or prohibiting
the presence of firearms on the private employer’s premises or property,
including motor vehicles owned by the private employer. Nothing in this
division (B) shall require a private employer of that nature to adopt a rule,
policy or practice concerning or prohibiting the presence of firearms on the
private employer’s premises or property, including motor vehicles owned by the
private employer.
         (b)   1.   A private employer shall be immune from liability in a
civil action for any injury, death or loss to person or property that allegedly
was caused by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto the premises or
property of the private employer, including motor vehicles owned by the private
employer, unless the private employer acted with malicious purpose. A private
employer is immune from liability in a civil action for any injury, death or
loss to person or property that allegedly was caused by or related to the
private employer’s decision to permit a licensee to bring, or prohibit a
licensee from bringing, a handgun onto the premises or property of the private
employer.
            2.   A political subdivision shall be immune from liability in a
civil action, to the extent and in the manner provided in R.C. Chapter 2744,
for any injury, death or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused
by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto any premises or property
owned, leased or otherwise under the control of the political subdivision. As
used in this division, POLITICAL SUBDIVISION has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2744.01.
            3.    An institution of higher education shall be immune from
liability in a civil action for any injury, death or loss to person or property
that allegedly was caused by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto
the premises of the institution, including motor vehicles owned by the
institution, unless the institution acted with malicious purpose. An
institution of higher education is immune from liability in a civil action for
any injury, death or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused by or
related to the institution’s decision to permit a licensee or class of
licensees to bring a handgun onto the premises of the institution.
            4.   A nonprofit corporation shall be immune from liability in a
civil action for any injury, death or loss to person or property that allegedly
was caused by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto the premises of
the nonprofit corporation, including any motor vehicle owned by the nonprofit
corporation, or to any event organized by the nonprofit corporation, unless the
nonprofit corporation acted with malicious purpose. A nonprofit corporation is
immune from liability in a civil action for any injury, death or loss to person
or property that allegedly was caused by or related to the nonprofit
corporation’s decision to permit a licensee to bring a handgun onto the
premises of the nonprofit corporation or to any event organized by the
nonprofit corporation.
         (c)   1.   a.   Except as provided in division (B)(3)(c)2. below and
R.C. § 2923.1214, the owner or person in control of private land or premises,
and a private person or entity leasing land or premises owned by the state, the
United States or a political subdivision of the state or the United States, may
post a sign in a conspicuous location on that land or on those premises
prohibiting persons from carrying firearms or concealed firearms on or onto
that land or those premises. Except as otherwise provided in this division, a
person who knowingly violates a posted prohibition of that nature is guilty of
criminal trespass in violation of R.C. § 2911.21(A)(4) and is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If a person knowingly violates a posted
prohibition of that nature and the posted land or premises primarily was a
parking lot or other parking facility, the person is not guilty of criminal
trespass under R.C. § 2911.21 or under any other criminal law of this state or
criminal law, ordinance or resolution of a political subdivision of this state,
and instead is subject only to a civil cause of action for trespass based on
the violation.
               b.   If a person knowingly violates a posted prohibition of the
nature described in this division and the posted land or premises is a child
day-care center, type A family day-care home or type B family day-care home,
unless the person is a licensee who resides in a type A family day-care home or
type B family day-care home, the person is guilty of aggravated trespass in
violation of R.C. § 2911.211. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the person
previously has been convicted of a violation of this division or any
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any offense of
violence, if the weapon involved is a firearm that is either loaded or for
which the offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the weapon involved is
dangerous ordnance, the offender is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
            2.   A landlord may not prohibit or restrict a tenant who is a
licensee and who on or after September 9, 2008 enters into a rental agreement
with the landlord for the use of residential premises, and the tenant’s guest
while the tenant is present, from lawfully carrying or possessing a handgun on
those residential premises.
            3.   As used in this division (B)(3)(c):
               LANDLORD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01.
               RENTAL AGREEMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01.
               RESIDENTIAL PREMISES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01,
except the term does not include a dwelling unit that is owned or operated by a
college or university.
               TENANT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01.
      (4)   A person who holds a valid concealed handgun license issued by
another state that is recognized by the Attorney General pursuant to a
reciprocity agreement entered into pursuant to R.C. § 109.69 or a person who
holds a valid concealed handgun license under the circumstances described in
R.C. § 109.69(B) has the same right to carry a concealed handgun in this state
as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license under R.C. § 2923.125
and is subject to the same restrictions that apply to a person who has been
issued a license under that section that is valid at the time in question.
      (5)   (a)   A peace officer has the same right to carry a concealed
handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license
under R.C. § 2923.125, provided that the officer when carrying a concealed
handgun under authority of this division is carrying validating identification.
For purposes of reciprocity with other states, a peace officer shall be
considered to be a licensee in this state.
         (b)   An active duty member of the armed forces of the United States
who is carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of
successful completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training
requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1) has the same right to carry a
concealed handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun
license under R.C. § 2923.125 and is subject to the same restrictions as
specified in this division (B).
         (c)   A tactical medical professional who is qualified to carry
firearms while on duty under R.C. § 109.771 has the same right to carry a
concealed handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun
license under R.C. § 2923.125.
      (6)   (a)   1.   A qualified retired peace officer who possesses a
retired peace officer identification card issued pursuant to division (B)(6)(b)
of this section and a valid firearms requalification certification issued
pursuant to division (B)(6)(c) of this section has the same right to carry a
concealed handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun
license under R.C. § 2923.125 and is subject to the same restrictions that
apply to a person who has been issued a license issued under that section that
is valid at the time in question.
            2.   For purposes of reciprocity with other states, a qualified
retired peace officer who possesses a retired peace officer identification card
issued pursuant to division (B)(6)(b) of this section and a valid firearms
requalification certification issued pursuant to division (B)(6)(c) of this
section shall be considered to be a licensee in this state.
         (b)   1.   Each public agency of this state or of a political
subdivision of this state that is served by one or more peace officers shall
issue a retired peace officer identification card to any person who retired
from service as a peace officer with that agency, if the issuance is in
accordance with the agency’s policies and procedures and if the person, with
respect to the person’s service with that agency, satisfies all of the
following:
               a.   The person retired in good standing from service as a peace
officer with the public agency, and the retirement was not for reasons of
mental instability;
               b.   Before retiring from service as a peace officer with that
agency, the person was authorized to engage in or supervise the prevention,
detection, investigation or prosecution of, or the incarceration of any person
for, any violation of law and the person had statutory powers of arrest;
               c.   At the time of the person’s retirement as a peace officer
with that agency, the person was trained and qualified to carry firearms in the
performance of the peace officer’s duties; and
               d.   Before retiring from service as a peace officer with that
agency, the person was regularly employed as a peace officer for an aggregate
of 15 years or more, or, in the alternative, the person retired from service as
a peace officer with that agency, after completing any applicable probationary
period of that service, due to a service-connected disability, as determined by
the agency.
            2.   A retired peace officer identification card issued to a person
under division (B)(6)(b)1. above shall identify the person by name, contain a
photograph of the person, identify the public agency of this state or of the
political subdivision of this state from which the person retired as a peace
officer and that is issuing the identification card, and specify that the
person retired in good standing from service as a peace officer with the
issuing public agency and satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)
(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(B)1.d. above. In addition to the required content specified
in this division, a retired peace officer identification card issued to a
person under division (B)(6)(b)1. above may include the firearms
requalification certification described in division (B)(6)(c) above, and if the
identification card includes that certification, the identification card shall
serve as the firearms requalification certification for the retired peace
officer. If the issuing public agency issues credentials to active law
enforcement officers who serve the agency, the agency may comply with division
(B)(6)(b)1. above by issuing the same credentials to persons who retired from
service as a peace officer with the agency and who satisfy the criteria set
forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(b)1.d. above, provided that the
credentials so issued to retired peace officers are stamped with the word
“RETIRED”.
            3.   A public agency of this state or of a political subdivision of
this state may charge persons who retired from service as a peace officer with
the agency a reasonable fee for issuing to the person a retired peace officer
identification card pursuant to division (B)(6)(b)1. above.
         (c)   1.   If a person retired from service as a peace officer with a
public agency of this state or of a political subdivision of this state and the
person satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)
(b)1.d. above, the public agency may provide the retired peace officer with the
opportunity to attend a firearms requalification program that is approved for
purposes of firearms requalification required under R.C. § 109.801. The retired
peace officer may be required to pay the cost of the course.
            2.   If a retired peace officer who satisfies the criteria set
forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(b)1.d. above attends a firearms
requalification program that is approved for purposes of firearms
requalification required under R.C. § 109.801, the retired peace officer’s
successful completion of the firearms requalification program requalifies the
retired peace officer for purposes of division (B)(6) above for five years from
the date on which the program was successfully completed, and the
requalification is valid during that five-year period. If a retired peace
officer who satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)
(6)(b)1.d. above satisfactorily completes such a firearms requalification
program, the retired peace officer shall be issued a firearms requalification
certification that identifies the retired peace officer by name, identifies the
entity that taught the program, specifies that the retired peace officer
successfully completed the program, specifies the date on which the course was
successfully completed and specifies that the requalification is valid for five
years from that date of successful completion. The firearms requalification
certification for a retired peace officer may be included in the retired peace
officer identification card issued to the retired peace officer under division
(B)(6)(b)above.
            3.   A retired peace officer who attends a firearms requalification
program that is approved for purposes of firearms requalification required
under R.C. § 109.801 may be required to pay the cost of the program.
      (7)   As used in this division (B):
         GOVERNING BODY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 154.01.
         GOVERNMENT FACILITY OF THIS STATE OR A POLITICAL SUBDIVISION OF THIS
STATE. Any of the following:
            1.   A building or part of a building that is owned or leased by
the government of this state or a political subdivision of this state and where
employees of the government of this state or the political subdivision
regularly are present for the purpose of performing their official duties as
employees of the state or political subdivision; or
            2.   The office of a deputy registrar serving pursuant to R.C.
Chapter 4503 that is used to perform deputy registrar functions.
         NONPROFIT CORPORATION. Any private organization that is exempt from
federal income taxation pursuant to § 501(a) and described in § 501(c) of the
Internal Revenue Code.
         QUALIFIED RETIRED PEACE OFFICER. Means a person who satisfies all of
the following:
            1.   The person satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)
(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(b)1.d. above;
            2.   The person is not under the influence of alcohol or another
intoxicating or hallucinatory drug or substance; and
            3.   The person is not prohibited by federal law from receiving
firearms.
         RETIRED PEACE OFFICER IDENTIFICATION CARD. An identification card that
is issued pursuant to division (B)(6)(b) above to a person who is a retired
peace officer.
         TACTICAL MEDICAL PROFESSIONAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
109.71.
         VALIDATING IDENTIFICATION. Photographic identification issued by the
agency for which an individual serves as a peace officer that identifies the
individual as a peace officer of the agency.
(R.C. § 2923.126)
   (C)   Posting of signs prohibiting possession. Each person, board or entity
that owns or controls any place or premises identified in R.C. § 2923.126(B) as
a place into which a valid license does not authorize the licensee to carry a
concealed handgun, or a designee of such a person, board or entity, shall post
in the following one or more conspicuous locations in the premises a sign that
contains a statement in substantially the following form: “Unless otherwise
authorized by law, pursuant to the Ohio Revised Code, no person shall knowingly
possess, have under the person’s control, convey or attempt to convey a deadly
weapon or dangerous ordnance onto these premises”.
(R.C. § 2923.1212)
§ 137.21 DEFACED FIREARMS.
   (A)   No person shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Change, alter, remove or obliterate the name of the manufacturer,
model, manufacturer’s serial number or other mark of identification on a
firearm; or
      (2)   Possess a firearm knowing or having reasonable cause to believe
that the name of the manufacturer, model, manufacturer’s serial number or other
mark of identification on the firearm has been changed, altered, removed or
obliterated.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) above is guilty of defacing
identification marks of a firearm. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, defacing identification marks of a firearm is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (A)(1) above, defacing identification marks
of a firearm is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(2) above is guilty of possessing a
defaced firearm. Except as otherwise provided in this division, possessing a
defaced firearm is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division
(A)(2) above, possessing a defaced firearm is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (C)   Division (A) above does not apply to any firearm on which no
manufacturer’s serial number was inscribed at the time of its manufacture.
(R.C. § 2923.201)
CHAPTER 138: DRUG OFFENSES
Section
   
138.01   Definitions
   
138.02   Drug abuse
   
138.03   Possessing drug paraphernalia
   
138.04   Permitting drug abuse
   
138.05   Abusing harmful intoxicants
   
138.06   Possession of marijuana
   
138.07   Trafficking in controlled substances; gift of marijuana
   
138.08   Possessing drug abuse instruments
   
138.09   Illegal cultivation of marijuana
   
138.10   Illegal dispensing of drug samples
   
138.11   Federal prosecution bar to municipal prosecution
   
138.12   Nitrous oxide; improper dispensing or distribution; possession in a
motor vehicle
   
138.13   Laboratory report required
   
138.14   Counterfeit controlled substances
   
138.15   Controlled substance or prescription labels
   
138.16   Possession, sale and disposal of hypodermics
   
138.17   Controlled substance schedules
   
138.18   Unlawful furnishing of prescription to enable persons to be issued
handicapped parking placards or license plates
   
138.19   Sale of pseudoephedrine
   
138.20   Sale of pure caffeine product
   
138.21   Sale of dextromethorphan
Statutory reference:
   Administration of epinephrine, exemption from prosecution, see R.C. §
2925.64
   Controlled substances, regulation of pharmacists and other professionals,
see R.C. Chapters 3719 and 4729
   Conviction of professionally licensed persons to be reported to licensing
board, see R.C. § 2925.38
   Criminal and civil forfeiture of property for felony drug abuse offenses,
see R.C. Chapter 2981
   Destruction of chemicals used to produce methamphetamine; preservation of
samples, see R.C. § 2925.52
   Tampering with drugs, felony offense, see R.C. § 2925.24
§ 138.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words,
terms and phrases and their derivatives used in this chapter which are not
defined in this section shall have the meanings given to them in the Ohio
Revised Code.
   ADMINISTER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   ADULTERATE. To cause a drug to be adulterated as described in R.C. §
3715.63.
   ALCOHOL AND DRUG ADDICTION SERVICES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5119.01.
   BULK AMOUNT. Of a controlled substance means any of the following:
      (1)   For any compound, mixture, preparation or substance included in
Schedule I, Schedule II or Schedule III, with the exception of any controlled
substance analog, marihuana, cocaine, L.S.D., heroin, any fentanyl-related
compound and hashish and except as provided in division (2), (5) or (6) below,
whichever of the following is applicable:
         (a)   An amount equal to or exceeding ten grams or 25 unit doses of a
compound, mixture, preparation or substance that is or contains any amount of a
Schedule I opiate or opium derivative;
         (b)   An amount equal to or exceeding ten grams of a compound,
mixture, preparation or substance that is or contains any amount of raw or gum
opium;
         (c)   An amount equal to or exceeding 30 grams or ten unit doses of a
compound, mixture, preparation or substance that is or contains any amount of a
Schedule I hallucinogen other than tetrahydrocannabinol or lysergic acid amide,
or a Schedule I stimulant or depressant;
         (d)   An amount equal to or exceeding 20 grams or five times the
maximum daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard
pharmaceutical reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation or
substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule II opiate or opium
derivative;
         (e)   An amount equal to or exceeding five grams or ten unit doses of
a compound, mixture, preparation or substance that is or contains any amount of
phencyclidine;
         (f)   An amount equal to or exceeding 120 grams or 30 times the
maximum daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard
pharmaceutical reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation or
substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule II stimulant that is in
a final dosage form manufactured by a person authorized by the Federal Food,
Drug and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., as amended) and the federal
drug abuse control laws, as defined in this section, that is or contains any
amount of a Schedule II depressant substance or a Schedule II hallucinogenic
substance; and
         (g)   An amount equal to or exceeding three grams of a compound,
mixture, preparation or substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule
II stimulant, or any of its salts or isomers, that is not in a final dosage
form manufactured by a person authorized by the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic
Act (21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., as amended) and the federal drug abuse control
laws;
      (2)   An amount equal to or exceeding 120 grams or 30 times the maximum
daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard pharmaceutical
reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III or IV substance other than an anabolic
steroid or a Schedule III opiate or opium derivative;
      (3)   An amount equal to or exceeding 20 grams or five times the maximum
daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard pharmaceutical
reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III opiate or opium derivative;
      (4)   An amount equal to or exceeding 250 milliliters or 250 grams of a
compound, mixture, preparation or substance that is or contains any amount of a
Schedule V substance;
      (5)   An amount equal to or exceeding 200 solid dosage units, 16 grams,
or 16 milliliters of a compound, mixture, preparation or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III anabolic steroid; and
      (6)   For any compound, mixture, preparation or substance that is a
combination of a fentanyl-related compound and any other compound, mixture,
preparation or substance included in Schedule III, Schedule IV or Schedule V,
if the defendant is charged with a violation of R.C. § 2925.11 and the
sentencing provisions set forth in R.C. § 2925.11(C)(10)(b) and (C)(11) will
not apply regarding the defendant and the violation, the bulk amount of the
controlled substance for purposes of the violation is the amount specified in
division (1), (2), (3), (4) or (5) above for the other Schedule III, Schedule
IV or Schedule V controlled substance that is combined with the fentanyl-
related compound.
   CERTIFIED GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE. A duly constituted and organized committee of
the Ohio State Bar Association or of one or more local bar associations of the
state that complies with the criteria set forth in Rule V, § 6 of the Rules for
the Government of the Bar of Ohio.
   COCAINE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A cocaine salt, isomer or derivative, a salt of a cocaine isomer or
derivative, or the base form of cocaine;
      (2)   Coca leaves or a salt, compound, derivative or preparation of coca
leaves, including ecgonine, a salt, isomer or derivative of ecgonine, or a salt
of an isomer or derivative of ecgonine; or
      (3)   A salt, compound, derivative or preparation of a substance
identified in division (1) or (2) above that is chemically equivalent to or
identical with any of those substances, except that the substances shall not
include decocainized coca leaves or extraction of coca leaves if the
extractions do not contain cocaine or ecgonine.
   COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A JUVENILE. An offense is “committed in the
vicinity of a juvenile” if the offender commits the offense within 100 feet of
a juvenile or within the view of a juvenile, regardless of whether the offender
knows the age of the juvenile, whether the offender knows the offense is being
committed within 100 feet of or within view of the juvenile or whether the
juvenile actually views the commission of the offense.
   COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A SCHOOL. An offense is COMMITTED IN THE
VICINITY OF A SCHOOL if the offender commits the offense on school premises, in
a school building or within 1,000 feet of the boundaries of any school
premises, regardless of whether the offender knows the offense is being
committed on school premises, in a school building or within 1,000 feet of the
boundaries of any school premises.
   COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A SUBSTANCE ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER OR A
RECOVERING ADDICT. An offense is “committed in the vicinity of a substance
addiction services provider or a recovering addict” if either of the following
apply:
      (1)   The offender commits the offense on the premises of a substance
addiction services provider’s facility, including a facility licensed prior to
June 29, 2019, under R.C. § 5119.391 to provide methadone treatment or an
opioid treatment program licensed on or after that date under R.C. § 5119.37,
or within 500 feet of the premises of a substance addiction services provider’s
facility and the offender knows or should know that the offense is being
committed within the vicinity of the substance addiction services provider’s
facility.
      (2)   The offender sells, offers to sell, delivers, or distributes the
controlled substance or controlled substance analog to a person who is
receiving treatment at the time of the commission of the offense, or received
treatment within 30 days prior to the commission of the offense, from a
substance addiction services provider and the offender knows that the person is
receiving or received that treatment.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE ANALOG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   COUNTERFEIT CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any drug that bears, or whose container or label bears, a
trademark, trade name or other identifying mark used without authorization of
the owner of rights to the trademark, trade name or identifying mark;
      (2)   Any unmarked or unlabeled substance that is represented to be a
controlled substance manufactured, processed, packed or distributed by a person
other than the person that manufactured, processed, packed or distributed it;
      (3)   Any substance that is represented to be a controlled substance but
is not a controlled substance or is a different controlled substance; and
      (4)   Any substance other than a controlled substance that a reasonable
person would believe to be a controlled substance because of its similarity in
shape, size and color, or its markings, labeling, packaging, distribution or
the price for which it is sold or offered for sale.
   CULTIVATE. Includes planting, watering, fertilizing or tilling.
   DANGEROUS DRUG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   DECEPTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   DISCIPLINARY COUNSEL. The disciplinary counsel appointed by the Board of
Commissioners on Grievances and Discipline of the State Supreme Court under the
Rules for the Government of the Bar of Ohio.
   DISPENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   DISTRIBUTE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   DRUG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2913.02(A) that constitutes theft of drugs,
or any violation of R.C. §§ 2925.02, 2925.03, 2925.04, 2925.041, 2925.05,
2925.06, 2925.11, 2925.12, 2925.13, 2925.22, 2925.23, 2925.24, 2925.31,
2925.32, 2925.36 or 2925.37;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former law of a municipality, state
or any other state or of the United States, that is substantially equivalent to
any section listed in division (1) above;
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former law of a municipality, state
or any other state, or of the United States, of which planting, cultivating,
harvesting, processing, making, manufacturing, producing, shipping,
transporting, delivering, acquiring, possessing, storing, distributing,
dispensing, selling, inducing another to use, administering to another, using
or otherwise dealing with a controlled substance is an element; or
      (4)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit or complicity in
committing or attempting to commit, any offense under division (1), (2) or (3)
above.
   DRUG DEPENDENT PERSON. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.011.
   DRUG OF ABUSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.011.
   FELONY DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Any drug abuse offense that would constitute a
felony under the laws of this state, any other state or the United States.
   FENTANYL-RELATED COMPOUND. Any of the following:
      (1)   Fentanyl;
      (2)   Alpha-methylfentanyl (N-[1-(alpha-methyl-beta-phenyl)ethyl-4-
piperidyl] propionanilide; 1-(1-methyl-2-phenylethyl)-4-(N-propanilido)
piperidine);
      (3)   Alpha-methylthiofentanyl (N-[1-methyl-2-(2-thienyl)ethyl-4-
piperidinyl]-N- phenylpropanamide);
      (4)   Beta-hydroxyfentanyl (N-[1-(2-hydroxy-2-phenethyl-4-piperidinyl]-N-
phenylpropanamide);
      (5)   Beta-hydroxy-3-methylfentanyl (other name: N-[1-(2-hydroxy-2-
phenethyl)-3- methyl-4-piperidinyl]-N-phenylpropanamide);
      (6)   3-methylfentanyl (N-[3-methyl-1-(2-phenylethyl)-4-piperidyl]-N-
phenylpropanamide);
      (7)   3-methylthiofentanyl (N-[3-methyl-1-[2-(thienyl)ethyl]-4-
piperidinyl]-– phenylpropanamide);
      (8)   Para-fluorofentanyl (N-(4-fluorophenyl)-N-[1-(2-phenethyl)-4-
piperidinyl]propanamide;
      (9)   Thiofentanyl (N-phenyl-N-[1-(2-thienyl)ethyl-4-piperidinyl]-
propanamide;
      (10)   Alfentanil;
      (11)   Carfentanil;
      (12)   Remifentanil;
      (13)   Sufentanil;
      (14)   Acetyl-alpha-methylfentanyl (N-[1-(1-methyl-2-phenethyl)-4-
piperidinyl]-N- phenylacetamide); and
      (15)   Any compound that meets all of the following fentanyl
pharmacophore requirements to bind at the mu receptor, as identified by a
report from an established forensic laboratory, including acetylfentanyl,
furanylfentanyl, valerylfentanyl, butyrylfentanyl, isobutyrylfentanyl, 4-
methoxybutyrylfentanyl, para-fluorobutyrylfentanyl, acrylfentanyl and ortho-
fluorofentanyl:
         (a)   A chemical scaffold consisting of both of the following:
            1.   A five, six or seven member ring structure containing a
nitrogen, whether or not further substituted; or
            2.   An attached nitrogen to the ring, whether or not that nitrogen
is enclosed in a ring structure, including an attached aromatic ring or other
lipophilic group to that nitrogen.
         (b)   A polar functional group attached to the chemical scaffold,
including, but not limited to, a hydroxyl, ketone, amide or ester;
         (c)   An alkyl or aryl substitution off the ring nitrogen of the
chemical scaffold; and
         (d)   The compound has not been approved for medical use by the United
States food and drug administration.
   HARMFUL INTOXICANT. Does not include beer or intoxicating liquor, but means
any of the following:
      (1)   Any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance the gas, fumes or
vapor of which when inhaled can induce intoxication, excitement, giddiness,
irrational behavior, depression, stupefaction, paralysis, unconsciousness,
asphyxiation or other harmful physiological effects, and includes, but is not
limited to, any of the following:
         (a)   Any volatile organic solvent, plastic cement, model cement,
fingernail polish remover, lacquer thinner, cleaning fluid, gasoline or other
preparation containing a volatile organic solvent;
         (b)   Any aerosol propellant;
         (c)   Any fluorocarbon refrigerant; or
         (d)   Any anesthetic gas.
      (2)   Gamma Butyrolactone; or
      (3)   1,4 Butanediol.
   HASHISH.
      (1)   A resin or a preparation of a resin to which both of the following
apply.
         (a)   It is contained in or derived from any part of the plant of the
genus cannabis, whether in solid form or in a liquid concentrate, liquid
extract or liquid distillate form.
         (b)   It has a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration of more than
0.3%.
      (2)   The term does not include a hemp byproduct in the possession of a
licensed hemp processor under R.C. Chapter 928, provided that the hemp
byproduct is being produced, stored and disposed of in accordance with rules
adopted under R.C. § 928.03.
   HYPODERMIC. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   JUVENILE. A person under 18 years of age.
   LICENSED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL AUTHORIZED TO PRESCRIBE DRUGS. Has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   L.S.D. Lysergic acid diethylamide.
   MAJOR DRUG OFFENDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   MANDATORY PRISON TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   MANUFACTURE. To plant, cultivate, harvest, process, make, prepare or
otherwise engage in any part of the production of a drug, by propagation,
extraction, chemical synthesis or compounding, or any combination of the same,
and includes packaging, repackaging, labeling and other activities incident to
production.
   MANUFACTURER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   MARIHUANA. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01, except that it does
not include hashish.
   METHAMPHETAMINE. Methamphetamine, any salt, isomer or salt of an isomer of
methamphetamine, or any compound, mixture, preparation or substance containing
methamphetamine or any salt, isomer or salt of an isomer of methamphetamine.
   MINOR DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSE. Either of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2925.11 as it existed prior to July 1, 1996,
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance; or
      (2)   A violation of R.C. § 2925.11 as it exists on and after July 1,
1996, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that is a misdemeanor
or a felony of the fifth degree.
   OFFICIAL WRITTEN ORDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   PERSON. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   PHARMACIST. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   PHARMACY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   POSSESS or POSSESSION. Having control over a thing or substance but may not
be inferred solely from mere access to the thing or substance through ownership
or occupation of the premises upon which the thing or substance is found.
   PREMISES OF A SUBSTANCE ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER’S FACILITY. Means the
parcel of real property on which any substance addiction service provider’s
facility is situated.
   PRESCRIPTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   PRESUMPTION FOR A PRISON TERM or PRESUMPTION THAT A PRISON TERM SHALL BE
IMPOSED. A presumption as described in R.C. § 2929.13(D) that a prison term is
a necessary sanction for a felony in order to comply with the purposes and
principles of sentencing under R.C. § 2929.11.
   PROFESSIONAL LICENSE. Any license, permit, certificate, registration,
qualification, admission, temporary license, temporary permit, temporary
certificate or temporary registration that is described in R.C. § 2925.01(W)(1)
through (W)(37) and that qualifies a person as a professionally licensed
person.
   PROFESSIONALLY LICENSED PERSON. Any of the following:
      (1)   A person who has received a certificate or temporary certificate as
a certified public accountant or who has registered as a public accountant
under R.C. Chapter 4701 and who holds an Ohio permit issued under that chapter;
      (2)   A person who holds a certificate of qualification to practice
architecture issued or renewed and registered under R.C. Chapter 4703;
      (3)   A person who is registered as a landscape architect under R.C.
Chapter 4703 or who holds a permit as a landscape architect issued under that
chapter;
      (4)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4707;
      (5)   A person who has been issued a certificate of registration as a
registered barber under R.C. Chapter 4709;
      (6)   A person licensed and regulated to engage in the business of a debt
pooling company by a legislative authority, under authority of R.C. Chapter
4710;
      (7)   A person who has been issued a cosmetologist’s license, hair
designer’s license, manicurist’s license, esthetician’s license, natural hair
stylist’s license, advanced cosmetologist’s license, advanced hair designer’s
license, advanced manicurist’s license, advanced esthetician’s license,
advanced natural hair stylist’s license, cosmetology instructor’s license, hair
design instructor’s license, manicurist instructor’s license, esthetics
instructor’s license, natural hair style instructor’s license, independent
contractor’s license or tanning facility permit under R.C. Chapter 4713;
      (8)   A person who has been issued a license to practice dentistry, a
general anesthesia permit, a conscious sedation permit, a limited resident’s
license, a limited teaching license, a dental hygienist’s license or a dental
hygienist’s teacher’s certificate under R.C. Chapter 4715;
      (9)   A person who has been issued an embalmer’s license, a funeral
director’s license, a funeral home license or a crematory license, or who has
been registered for an embalmer’s or funeral director’s apprenticeship under
R.C. Chapter 4717;
      (10)   A person who has been licensed as a registered nurse or practical
nurse, or who has been issued a certificate for the practice of nurse-midwifery
under R.C. Chapter 4723;
      (11)   A person who has been licensed to practice optometry or to engage
in optical dispensing under R.C. Chapter 4725;
      (12)   A person licensed to act as a pawnbroker under R.C. Chapter 4727;
      (13)   A person licensed to act as a precious metals dealer under R.C.
Chapter 4728;
      (14)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 as a pharmacist or
pharmacy intern or registered under that chapter as a registered pharmacy
technician, certified pharmacy technician or pharmacy technician trainee;
      (15)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 as a manufacturer of
dangerous drugs, outsourcing facility, third-party logistics provider,
repackager of dangerous drugs, wholesale distributor of dangerous drugs or
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs;
      (16)   A person who is authorized to practice as a physician assistant
under R.C. Chapter 4730;
      (17)   A person who has been issued a license to practice medicine and
surgery, osteopathic medicine and surgery or podiatric medicine and surgery
under R.C. Chapter 4731 or has been issued a certificate to practice a limited
branch of medicine under that chapter;
      (18)   A person licensed as a psychologist or school psychologist under
R.C. Chapter 4732;
      (19)   A person registered to practice the profession of engineering or
surveying under R.C. Chapter 4733;
      (20)   A person who has been issued a license to practice chiropractic
under R.C. Chapter 4734;
      (21)   A person licensed to act as a real estate broker or real estate
salesperson under R.C. Chapter 4735;
      (22)   A person registered as a registered environmental health
specialist under R.C. Chapter 4736;
      (23)   A person licensed to operate or maintain a junkyard under R.C.
Chapter 4737;
      (24)   A person who has been issued a motor vehicle salvage dealer’s
license under R.C. Chapter 4738;
      (25)   A person who has been licensed to act as a steam engineer under
R.C. Chapter 4739;
      (26)   A person who has been issued a license or temporary permit to
practice veterinary medicine or any of its branches, or who is registered as a
graduate animal technician under R.C. Chapter 4741;
      (27)   A person who has been issued a hearing aid dealer’s or fitter’s
license or trainee permit under R.C. Chapter 4747;
      (28)   A person who has been issued a class A, class B or class C license
or who has been registered as an investigator or security guard employee under
R.C. Chapter 4749;
      (29)   A person licensed to practice as a nursing home administrator
under R.C. Chapter 4751;
      (30)   A person licensed to practice as a speech-language pathologist or
audiologist under R.C. Chapter 4753;
      (31)   A person issued a license as an occupational therapist or physical
therapist under R.C. Chapter 4755;
      (32)   A person who is licensed as a licensed professional clinical
counselor, licensed professional counselor, social worker, independent social
worker, independent marriage and family therapist or marriage and family
therapist, or registered as a social work assistant under R.C. Chapter 4757;
      (33)   A person issued a license to practice dietetics under R.C. Chapter
4759;
      (34)   A person who has been issued a license or limited permit to
practice respiratory therapy under R.C. Chapter 4761;
      (35)   A person who has been issued a real estate appraiser certificate
under R.C. Chapter 4763;
      (36)   A person who has been issued a home inspector license under R.C.
Chapter 4764; or
      (37)   A person who has been admitted to the bar by order of the State
Supreme Court in compliance with its prescribed and published rules.
   PUBLIC PREMISES. Any hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall or other
place of public accommodation, business, amusement or resort.
   SALE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   SAMPLE DRUG. A drug or pharmaceutical preparation that would be hazardous to
health or safety if used without the supervision of a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs, or a drug of abuse, and that, at
one time, had been placed in a container plainly marked as a sample by a
manufacturer.
   SCHEDULE I, SCHEDULE II, SCHEDULE III, SCHEDULE IV or SCHEDULE V. Have the
same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   SCHOOL. Any school operated by a board of education, any community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314 or any nonpublic school for which the State
Board of Education prescribes minimum standards under R.C. § 3301.07, whether
or not any instruction, extracurricular activities or training provided by the
school is being conducted at the time a criminal offense is committed.
   SCHOOL BUILDING. Any building in which any of the instruction,
extracurricular activities or training provided by a school is conducted,
whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities or training provided
by the school is being conducted in the school building at the time a criminal
offense is committed.
   SCHOOL PREMISES. Either of the following:
      (1)   The parcel of real property on which any school is situated,
whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities or training provided
by the school is being conducted on the premises at the time a criminal offense
is committed; or
      (2)   Any other parcel of real property that is owned or leased by a
board of education of a school, the governing authority of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314, or the governing body of a nonpublic
school for which the State Board of Education prescribes minimum standards
under R.C. § 3301.07 and on which some of the instruction, extracurricular
activities or training of the school is conducted, whether or not any
instruction, extracurricular activities or training provided by the school is
being conducted on the parcel of real property at the time a criminal offense
is committed.
   STANDARD PHARMACEUTICAL REFERENCE MANUAL. The current edition, with
cumulative changes, if any, of references that are approved by the State Board
of Pharmacy.
   SUBSTANCE ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER. Means an agency, association,
corporation or other legal entity, individual, or program that provides one or
more of the following at a facility:
      (1)   Either alcohol addiction services, or drug addiction services, or
both such services that are certified by the Ohio Director of Mental Health and
Addiction Services under R.C. § 5119.36;
      (2)   Recovery supports that are related to either alcohol addiction
services, or drug addiction services, or both such services and paid for with
federal, state, or local funds administered by the Ohio Department of Mental
Health and Addiction Services or a board of alcohol, drug addiction, and mental
health services.
   UNIT DOSE. An amount or unit or a compound, mixture or preparation
containing a controlled substance that is separately identifiable and in a form
that indicates that it is the amount or unit by which the controlled substance
is separately administered to or taken by an individual.
   WHOLESALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
(R.C. § 2925.01) (Prior Code, § 9.11.01)
§ 138.02 DRUG ABUSE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly obtain, possess or use a controlled
substance or a controlled substance analog.
   (B)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   Manufacturers, licensed health professionals authorized to
prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies and other persons whose
conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731
and 4741;
         (b)   If the offense involves an anabolic steroid, any person who is
conducting or participating in a research project involving the use of an
anabolic steroid if the project has been approved by the United States Food and
Drug Administration;
         (c)   Any person who sells, offers for sale, prescribes, dispenses or
administers for livestock or other non-human species an anabolic steroid that
is expressly intended for administration through implants to livestock or other
nonhuman species and approved for that purpose under the Federal Food, Drug and
Cosmetic Act, and is sold, offered for sale, prescribed, dispensed or
administered for that purpose in accordance with that Act; and
         (d)   Any person who obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs if the prescription was issued for a legitimate medical purpose and not
altered, forged or obtained through deception or commission of a theft offense.
         (e)   As used in this division (B)(1)(d), DECEPTION and THEFT OFFENSE
have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      (2)   (a)   As used in this division (B)(2):
            COMMUNITY ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 5119.01.
            COMMUNITY CONTROL SANCTION. Has the same meanings as in R.C. §
2929.01.
            DRUG TREATMENT PROGRAM. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 2929.01.
            HEALTH CARE FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2919.16.
            MINOR DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSE. A violation of this section or R.C.
§ 2925.11 that is a misdemeanor or a felony of the fifth degree.
            PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
            POST-RELEASE CONTROL SANCTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2967.28.
            PUBLIC AGENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2930.01.
            QUALIFIED INDIVIDUAL. A person who is not on community control or
post-release control and is a person acting in good faith who seeks or obtains
medical assistance for another person who is experiencing a drug overdose, a
person who experiences a drug overdose and who seeks medical assistance for
that overdose or a person who is the subject of another person seeking or
obtaining medical assistance for that overdose as described in division (B)(2)
(b) below.
            SEEK OR OBTAIN MEDICAL ASSISTANCE. Includes, but is not limited to,
making a 911 call, contacting in person or by telephone call an on-duty peace
officer, or transporting or presenting a person to a health care facility.
         (b)   Subject to division (B)(2)(f) below, a qualified individual
shall not be arrested, charged, prosecuted, convicted or penalized pursuant to
this chapter for a minor drug possession offense if all of the following apply:
            1.   The evidence of the obtaining, possession or use of the
controlled substance or controlled substance analog that would be the basis of
the offense was obtained as a result of the qualified individual seeking the
medical assistance or experiencing an overdose and needing medical assistance.
            2.   Subject to division (B)(2)(g) below, within 30 days after
seeking or obtaining the medical assistance, the qualified individual seeks and
obtains a screening and receives a referral for treatment from a community
addiction services provider or a properly credentialed addiction treatment
professional.
            3.   a.   Subject to division (B)(2)(g) below, the qualified
individual who obtains a screening and receives a referral for treatment under
division (B)(2)(b)2. below, upon the request of any prosecuting attorney,
submits documentation to the prosecuting attorney that verifies that the
qualified individual satisfied the requirements of that division.
               b.   The documentation shall be limited to the date and time of
the screening obtained and referral received.
         (c)   If a person is found to be in violation of any community control
sanction and if the violation is a result of either of the following, the court
shall first consider ordering the person’s participation or continued
participation in a drug treatment program or mitigating the penalty specified
in R.C. § 2929.13, 2929.15 or 2929.25, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, whichever is applicable, after which the court has the
discretion either to order the person’s participation or continued
participation in a drug treatment program or to impose the penalty with the
mitigating factor specified in any of those applicable sections:
            1.   Seeking or obtaining medical assistance in good faith for
another person who is experiencing a drug overdose; or
            2.   Experiencing a drug overdose and seeking medical assistance
for that overdose or being the subject of another person seeking or obtaining
medical assistance for that overdose as described in division (B)(2)(b) above.
         (d)   If a person is found to be in violation of any post-release
control sanction and if the violation is a result of either of the following,
the court or the parole board shall first consider ordering the person’s
participation or continued participation in a drug treatment program or
mitigating the penalty specified in R.C. §§ 2929.141 or 2967.28, whichever is
applicable, after which the court or the parole board has the discretion either
to order the person’s participation or continued participation in a drug
treatment program or to impose the penalty with the mitigating factor specified
in either of those applicable sections:
            1.   Seeking or obtaining medical assistance in good faith for
another person who is experiencing a drug overdose; or
            2.   Experiencing a drug overdose and seeking medical assistance
for that emergency or being the subject of another person seeking or obtaining
medical assistance for that overdose as described in division (B)(2)(b) above.
         (e)   Nothing in division (B)(2)(b) above shall be construed to do any
of the following:
            1.   Limit the admissibility of any evidence in connection with the
investigation or prosecution of a crime with regards to a defendant who does
not qualify for the protections of division (B)(2)(b) above or with regards to
any crime other than a minor drug possession offense committed by a person who
qualifies for protection pursuant to division (B)(2)(b) above for a minor drug
possession offense;
            2.   Limit any seizure of evidence or contraband otherwise
permitted by law;
            3.   Limit or abridge the authority of a peace officer to detain or
take into custody a person in the course of an investigation or to effectuate
an arrest for any offense except as provided in that division; and
            4.   Limit, modify or remove any immunity from liability available
pursuant to law in effect prior to September 13, 2016 to any public agency or
to an employee of any public agency.
         (f)   Division (B)(2)(b) above does not apply to any person who twice
previously has been granted an immunity under division (B)(2)(b) above. No
person shall be granted an immunity under division (B)(2)(b) above more than
two times.
         (g)   Nothing in this section shall compel any qualified individual to
disclose protected health information in a way that conflicts with the
requirements of the “Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of
1996”, 104 Pub. L. No. 191, 110 Stat. 2021, 42 U.S.C. §§ 1320d et seq., as
amended, and regulations promulgated by the United States Department of Health
and Human Services to implement the act or the requirements of 42 C.F.R. Part
2.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) above is guilty of one of the following:
      (1)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule I or Schedule II, with the
exception of marihuana or hashish, whoever violates division (A) above is
guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation or substance included in Schedule III, Schedule IV or Schedule V,
whoever violates division (A) above is guilty of possession of drugs. The
penalty for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2)(b) below,
possession of drugs is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the offender
previously has been convicted of a drug abuse offense, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (b)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds the bulk
amount, possession of drugs is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the violation is marihuana or a compound,
mixture, preparation or substance containing marihuana other than hashish,
whoever violates division (A) above is guilty of possession of marihuana. The
penalty for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3)(b) or (C)(3)(c)
below, possession of marihuana is a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds 100 grams
but is less than 200 grams, possession of marihuana is a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
         (c)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds 200 grams,
possession of marihuana is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (4)   If the drug involved in the violation is hashish or a compound,
mixture, preparation or substance containing hashish, whoever violates division
(A) above is guilty of possession of hashish. The penalty for the offense shall
be determined as follows.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(4)(b) or (C)(4)(c)
below, possession of hashish is a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds five grams
but is less than ten grams of hashish in a solid form or equals or exceeds one
gram but is less than two grams of hashish in a liquid concentrate, liquid
extract or liquid distillate form, possession of hashish is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
         (c)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds ten grams
of hashish in a solid form or equals or exceeds two grams of hashish in a
liquid concentrate, liquid extract or liquid distillate form, possession of
hashish is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation or substance that is a combination of a fentanyl-related compound
and marihuana, one of the following applies:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(5)(b) below, the
offender is guilty of possession of marihuana and shall be punished as provided
in division (C)(3) above. Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(5)(b)
below, the offender is not guilty of possession of a fentanyl-related compound
under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) and shall not be charged with, convicted of or
punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) for possession of a fentanyl-related
compound.
         (b)   If the offender knows or has reason to know that the compound,
mixture, preparation or substance that is the drug involved contains a
fentanyl-related compound, the offender is guilty of possession of a fentanyl-
related compound and shall be punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11).
      (6)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is a combination of a fentanyl-related compound
and any Schedule III, Schedule IV or Schedule V controlled substance that is
not a fentanyl-related compound, one of the following applies:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(6)(b) below, the
offender is guilty of possession of drugs and shall be punished as provided in
division (C)(2) above. Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(6)(b)
below, the offender is not guilty of possession of a fentanyl-related compound
under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) and shall not be charged with, convicted of or
punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) for possession of a fentanyl-related
compound.
         (b)   If the offender knows or has reason to know that the compound,
mixture, preparation or substance that is the drug involved contains a
fentanyl-related compound, the offender is guilty of possession of a fentanyl-
related compound and shall be punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11).
   (D)   Arrest or conviction for a minor misdemeanor violation of this section
does not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries about the person’s criminal
record, including any inquiries contained in any application for employment,
license or other right or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s
appearance as a witness.
   (E)   (1)   In addition to any prison term or jail term authorized or
required by division (C) above and R.C. §§ 2929.13, 2929.14, 2929.22, 2929.24
and 2929.25, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and in
addition to any other sanction that is imposed for the offense under this
section, R.C. §§ 2929.11 through 2929.18, or R.C. §§ 2929.21 through 2929.28 or
any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court that sentences an
offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of division (A)
above may suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit for not more than five years. However, if the offender pleaded guilty to
or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance or the law of another state or the United States arising
out of the same set of circumstances as the violation, the court shall suspend
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit for not more
than five years.
      (2)   If the offender is a professionally licensed person, in addition to
any other sanction imposed for a violation of this section, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
   (F)   (1)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
      (2)   Upon the filing of a motion under this division (F), the sentencing
court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.11) (Prior Code, § 9.11.02)
Statutory reference:
   Felony drug possession offenses, see R.C. § 2925.11(C)
§ 138.03 POSSESSING DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   As used in this section, DRUG PARAPHERNALIA means any equipment,
product or material of any kind that is used by the offender, intended by the
offender for use, or designed for use, in propagating, cultivating, growing,
harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing,
preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing,
concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing into the
human body, a controlled substance in violation of this chapter. The term
includes, but is not limited to, any of the following equipment, products, or
materials that are used by the offender, intended by the offender for use or
designed by the offender for use, in any of the following manners:
      (1)   A kit for propagating, cultivating, growing or harvesting any
species of a plant that is a controlled substance or from which a controlled
substance can be derived;
      (2)   A kit for manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing,
processing or preparing a controlled substance;
      (3)   Any object, instrument or device for manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing or preparing methamphetamine;
      (4)   An isomerization device for increasing the potency of any species
of a plant that is a controlled substance;
      (5)   Testing equipment for identifying, or analyzing the strength,
effectiveness or purity of, a controlled substance;
      (6)   A scale or balance for weighing or measuring a controlled
substance;
      (7)   A diluent or adulterant, such as quinine hydrochloride, mannitol,
mannite, dextrose or lactose for cutting a controlled substance;
      (8)   A separation gin or sifter for removing twigs and seeds from, or
otherwise cleaning or refining, marihuana;
      (9)   A blender, bowl, container, spoon or mixing device for compounding
a controlled substance;
      (10)   A capsule, balloon, envelope or container for packaging small
quantities of a controlled substance;
      (11)   A container or device for storing or concealing a controlled
substance;
      (12)   A hypodermic syringe, needle or instrument for parenterally
injecting a controlled substance into the human body; or
      (13)   An object, instrument or device for ingesting, inhaling or
otherwise introducing into the human body, marihuana, cocaine, hashish or
hashish oil, such as a metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic or ceramic
pipe, with or without a screen, permanent screen, hashish head or punctured
metal bowl; water pipe; carburetion tube or device; smoking or carburetion
mask; roach clip or similar object used to hold burning material, such as a
marihuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be held in the
hand; miniature cocaine spoon, or cocaine vial; chamber pipe; carburetor pipe;
electric pipe; air driver pipe; chillum; bong; or ice pipe or chiller.
   (B)   In determining if any equipment, product, or material is drug
paraphernalia, a court or law enforcement officer shall consider, in addition
to other relevant factors, the following:
      (1)   Any statement by the owner or by anyone in control of the
equipment, product or material, concerning its use;
      (2)   The proximity in time or space of the equipment, product or
material, or of the act relating to the equipment, product or material, to a
violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2925;
      (3)   The proximity of the equipment, product, or material to any
controlled substance;
      (4)   The existence of any residue of a controlled substance on the
equipment, product or material;
      (5)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of the owner, or of
anyone in control, of the equipment, product or material, to deliver it to any
person whom he or she knows intends to use the equipment, product or material
to facilitate a violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter
2925. A finding that the owner or anyone in control of the equipment, product
or material is not guilty of a violation of any other provision of this chapter
or R.C. Chapter 2925 does not prevent a finding that the equipment, product or
material was intended or designed by the offender for use as drug
paraphernalia;
      (6)   Any oral or written instruction provided with the equipment,
product or material concerning its use;
      (7)   Any descriptive material accompanying the equipment, product or
material and explaining or depicting its use;
      (8)   National or local advertising concerning the use of the equipment,
product or material;
      (9)   The manner and circumstances in which the equipment, product or
material is displayed for sale;
      (10)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of the sales of the
equipment, product or material to the total sales of the business enterprise;
      (11)   The existence and scope of legitimate uses of the equipment,
product or material in the community; and
      (12)   Expert testimony concerning the use of the equipment, product or
material.
   (C)   (1)   Subject to division (D)(2) below, no person shall knowingly use,
or possess with purpose to use, drug paraphernalia.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly sell, or possess or manufacture with
purpose to sell, drug paraphernalia, if he or she knows or reasonably should
know that the equipment, product or material will be used as drug
paraphernalia.
      (3)   No person shall place an advertisement in any newspaper, magazine,
handbill or other publication that is published and printed and circulates
primarily within this state, if he or she knows that the purpose of the
advertisement is to promote the illegal sale in this municipality or in this
state of the equipment, product or material that the offender intended or
designed for use as drug paraphernalia.
   (D)   (1)   This section does not apply to manufacturers, licensed health
professionals authorized to prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies
and other persons whose conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715,
4723, 4729, 4730, 4731 and 4741. This section shall not be construed to
prohibit the possession or use of a hypodermic as authorized by R.C. §
3719.172.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) above does not apply to a person’s use, or
possession with purpose to use, any drug paraphernalia that is equipment, a
product or material of any kind that is used by the person, intended by the
person for use or designed for use in storing, containing, concealing,
injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing into the human body
marihuana.
   (E)   Notwithstanding R.C. Chapter 2981, any drug paraphernalia that was
used, possessed, sold or manufactured in violation of this section shall be
seized, after a conviction for that violation, shall be forfeited, and, upon
forfeiture, shall be disposed of pursuant to R.C. § 2981.12(B).
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (C)(1) above is guilty of illegal use
or possession of drug paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (F)(3) below, whoever violates
division (C)(2) above is guilty of dealing in drug paraphernalia, a misdemeanor
of the second degree.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C)(2) above by selling drug
paraphernalia to a juvenile is guilty of selling drug paraphernalia to
juveniles, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (C)(3) above is guilty of illegal
advertising of drug paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (G)   (1)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court may suspend for not more than five years
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit. However, if
the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another
state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the offender is a
professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction imposed for a
violation of this section, the court immediately shall comply with R.C. §
2925.38.
      (2)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension.
         (b)   However, an offender who pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a
violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance
or law of another state or the United States that arose out of the same set of
circumstances as the violation for which the offender’s license or permit was
suspended under this section shall not file such a motion.
         (c)   Upon the filing of a motion under this division (G)(2), the
sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.14)
   (H)   Illegal use or possession of marihuana drug paraphernalia.
      (1)   As used in this division (H), DRUG PARAPHERNALIA has the same
meaning as in division (A) above.
      (2)   In determining if any equipment, product or material is drug
paraphernalia, a court or law enforcement officer shall consider, in addition
to other relevant factors, all factors identified in division (B) above.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly use, or possess with purpose to use, any
drug paraphernalia that is equipment, a product or material of any kind that is
used by the person, intended by the person for use, or designed for use in
storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise
introducing into the human body marihuana.
      (4)   This division (H) does not apply to any person identified in
division (D)(1) above, and it shall not be construed to prohibit the possession
or use of a hypodermic as authorized by R.C. § 3719.172.
      (5)   Division (E) above applies with respect to any drug paraphernalia
that was used or possessed in violation of this section.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (H)(3) above is guilty of illegal use or
possession of marihuana drug paraphernalia, a minor misdemeanor.
      (7)   (a)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender
for a violation this division (H), the court may suspend for not more than five
years the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit.
However, if the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of
R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of
another state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances
as the violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the offender is a
professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction imposed for a
violation of this division (H), the court immediately shall comply with R.C. §
2925.38.
         (b)   1.   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this
division (H) prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing
court requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who
pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the
United States that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation
for which the offender’s license or permit was suspended under this division
(H) shall not file such a motion.
            2.   Upon the filing of a motion under this division (H)(7)(b), the
sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.141) (Prior Code, § 9.11.03)
§ 138.04 PERMITTING DRUG ABUSE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner, operator or person in charge of a
locomotive, watercraft, aircraft or other vehicle, as defined in R.C. §
4501.01, shall knowingly permit the vehicle to be used for the commission of a
felony drug abuse offense.
   (B)   No person, who is the owner, lessee or occupant, or who has custody,
control or supervision of premises, or real estate, including vacant land,
shall knowingly permit his or her premises, or real estate, including vacant
land, to be used for the commission of a felony drug abuse offense by another
person.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of permitting drug abuse.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) below, permitting drug abuse
is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Permitting drug abuse is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the felony drug abuse offense in question is a
violation of R.C. §§ 2925.02, 2925.03 or 2925.04, or if the felony drug abuse
offense in question is a violation of R.C. § 2925.041 and the offender had
actual knowledge, at the time the offender permitted the vehicle, premises or
real estate to be used as described in division (A) or (B) above, that the
person who assembled or possessed the chemicals in question in violation of
R.C. § 2925.041 had assembled or possessed them with the intent to manufacture
a controlled substance in Schedule I or Schedule II in violation of R.C. §
2925.04.
   (D)   Any premises or real estate that is permitted to be used in violation
of division (B) above constitutes a nuisance subject to abatement pursuant to
R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2925.13(A) - (C), (F)) (Prior Code, § 9.11.04)
§ 138.05 ABUSING HARMFUL INTOXICANTS.
   (A)   Except for lawful research, clinical, medical, dental or veterinary
purposes, no person, with purpose to induce intoxication or similar
physiological effects, shall obtain, possess or use a harmful intoxicant.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of abusing harmful
intoxicants, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a drug abuse offense, abusing harmful intoxicants is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   (1)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court may suspend for not more than five years
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit. However, if
the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another
state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the offender is a
professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction imposed for a
violation of this section, the court immediately shall comply with R.C. §
2925.38.
      (2)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to the September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         (b)   Upon the filing of a motion under this division (C)(2), the
sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.31) (Prior Code, § 9.11.05)
§ 138.06 POSSESSION OF MARIJUANA.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly obtain, possess or use marijuana.
   (B)   Any person convicted of violating this section shall be sentenced to
not more than 30 days in jail and fined not more than $250, or both, unless the
amount of marijuana involved is less than 100 grams; the amount of marijuana
resin, or extraction or preparation of such resin, is less than five grams; and
the amount of such resin in a liquid concentrate, liquid extract or liquid
distillate form is less than one gram, in which case, upon conviction, shall be
fined not more than $100.
   (C)   In the event arrest or conviction is for the lessor offense, violation
does not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries about the person’s criminal
record, including any inquiries contained in any applications for employment,
license or other right or privilege or made in connection with the person’s
appearance as a witness.
(Prior Code, § 9.11.06)
§ 138.07 TRAFFICKING IN CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES; GIFT OF MARIJUANA.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Sell or offer to sell a controlled substance or a controlled
substance analog; or
      (2)   Prepare for shipment, ship, transport, deliver, prepare for
distribution or distribute a controlled substance or a controlled substance
analog, when the offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
controlled substance or a controlled substance analog is intended for sale or
resale by the offender or another person.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   Manufacturers, licensed health professionals authorized to
prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies and other persons whose
conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731
and 4741;
      (2)   If the offense involves an anabolic steroid, any person who is
conducting or participating in a research project involving the use of an
anabolic steroid if the project has been approved by the United States Food and
Drug Administration; or
      (3)   Any person who sells, offers for sale, prescribes, dispenses or
administers for livestock or other non-human species an anabolic steroid that
is expressly intended for administration through implants to livestock or other
nonhuman species and approved for that purpose under the “Federal Food, Drug
and Cosmetic Act” (21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., as amended), and is sold, offered
for sale, prescribed, dispensed or administered for that purpose in accordance
with that Act.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) above is guilty of the following.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (C)(2) and (C)(3) below,
trafficking in controlled substances is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the offense
involves a gift of 20 grams or less of marihuana, trafficking in marihuana is a
minor misdemeanor upon a first offense and a misdemeanor of the third degree
upon a subsequent offense. If the offense involves a gift of 20 grams or less
of marihuana and if the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school or in
the vicinity of a juvenile, trafficking in marihuana is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation or substance that is a combination of a fentanyl-related compound
and marihuana, one of the following applies:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3)(b) below, the
offender is guilty of trafficking in marihuana and shall be punished under
division (C)(2) below. The offender is not guilty of trafficking in a fentanyl-
related compound and shall not be charged with, convicted of or punished under
R.C. § 2925.03(C)(9) for trafficking in a fentanyl-related compound.
         (b)   If the offender knows or has reason to know that the compound,
mixture, preparation or substance that is the drug involved contains a
fentanyl-related compound, the offender is guilty of trafficking in a fentanyl-
related compound and shall be punished under R.C. § 2925.03(C)(9).
   (D)   As used in this section, “drug” includes any substance that is
represented to be a drug.
(R.C. § 2925.03(A) - (C), (I))
Statutory reference:
   Felony drug trafficking offenses, see R.C. § 2925.03(C)
§ 138.08 POSSESSING DRUG ABUSE INSTRUMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make, obtain, possess or use any instrument,
article or thing the customary and primary purpose of which is for the
administration or use of a dangerous drug, other than marihuana, when the
instrument involved is a hypodermic or syringe, whether or not of crude or
extemporized manufacture or assembly, and the instrument, article or thing
involved has been used by the offender to unlawfully administer or use a
dangerous drug, other than marihuana, or to prepare a dangerous drug, other
than marihuana, for unlawful administration or use.
   (B)   This section does not apply to manufacturers, licensed health
professionals authorized to prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies,
and other persons whose conduct was in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719,
4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731 and 4741.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possessing drug abuse
instruments, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a drug abuse offense, violation of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   (1)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court may suspend for not more than five years
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit. However, if
the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another
state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the offender is a
professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction imposed for a
violation of this section, the court immediately shall comply with R.C. §
2925.38.
      (2)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         (b)   Upon the filing of a motion under this division (D)(2), the
sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.12)
§ 138.09 ILLEGAL CULTIVATION OF MARIJUANA.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cultivate marihuana.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any person listed in R.C. § 2925.03(B)
(1), (B)(2) or (B)(3), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, to
the extent and under the circumstances described in that division.
   (C)   Whoever commits a violation of division (A) above is guilty of illegal
cultivation of marihuana.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in the following divisions, illegal
cultivation of marihuana is a minor misdemeanor or, if the offense was
committed in the vicinity of a school or in the vicinity of a juvenile, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   If the amount of marihuana involved equals or exceeds 100 grams but
is less than 200 grams, illegal cultivation of marihuana is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree or, if the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school
or in the vicinity of a juvenile, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (3)   If the amount of marihuana involved equals or exceeds 200 grams,
illegal cultivation of marihuana is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (D)   Arrest or conviction for a minor misdemeanor violation of this section
does not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries about the person’s criminal
record, including any inquiries contained in any application for employment,
license or other right or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s
appearance as a witness.
(R.C. § 2925.04(A), (B), (C)(5), (G))
Statutory reference:
   Illegal manufacturing of controlled substances, felony, see R.C. § 2925.04
   Sale or use of drugs not approved by Food and Drug Administration, felony,
see R.C. § 2925.09
§ 138.10 ILLEGAL DISPENSING OF DRUG SAMPLES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly furnish a sample drug to another person.
   (B)   Division (A) above does not apply to manufacturers, wholesalers,
pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, licensed health professionals authorized to
prescribe drugs and other persons whose conduct is in accordance with R.C.
Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4725, 4729, 4730, 4731 and 4741.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal dispensing of
drug samples.
      (2)   If the drug involved in the offense is a compound, mixture,
preparation or substance included in Schedule I or Schedule II, with the
exception of marihuana, illegal dispensing of drug samples is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the offense is a dangerous drug or a
compound, mixture, preparation or substance included in Schedule III, Schedule
IV or Schedule V, or is marihuana, the penalty for the offense shall be
determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in the following division, illegal
dispensing of drug samples is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
         (b)   If the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school or in
the vicinity of a juvenile, illegal dispensing of drug samples is a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2925.36(A) - (C))
Statutory reference:
   Felony offenses, see R.C. § 2925.36(C)(2)
§ 138.11 FEDERAL PROSECUTION BAR TO MUNICIPAL PROSECUTION.
   No person shall be prosecuted for a violation of this chapter if the person
has been acquitted or convicted under the federal drug abuse control laws of
the same act or omission which, it is alleged, constitutes a violation of this
chapter.
(R.C. §§ 2925.50, 3719.19)
§ 138.12 NITROUS OXIDE; IMPROPER DISPENSING OR DISTRIBUTION; POSSESSION IN A
MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   Improper dispensing or distribution.
      (1)   No person who dispenses or distributes nitrous oxide in cartridges
shall fail to comply with either of the following:
         (a)   The record-keeping requirements established under division (A)
(3) below; or
         (b)   The labeling and transaction identification requirements
established under division (A)(4) below.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(1)(a) or (A)(1)(b) above is guilty of
improperly dispensing or distributing nitrous oxide, a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
      (3)   Beginning July 1, 2001, a person who dispenses or distributes
nitrous oxide shall record each transaction involving the dispensing or
distribution of the nitrous oxide on a separate card. The person shall require
the purchaser to sign the card and provide a complete residence address. The
person dispensing or distributing the nitrous oxide shall sign and date the
card. The person shall retain the card recording a transaction for one year
from the date of the transaction. The person shall maintain the cards at the
person’s business address and make them available during normal business hours
for inspection and copying by officers or employees of the State Board of
Pharmacy or of other law enforcement agencies that are authorized to
investigate violations of this code, R.C. Chapters 2925, 3719 or 4729, or
federal drug abuse control laws. The cards used to record each transaction
shall inform the purchaser of the following:
         (a)   That nitrous oxide cartridges are to be used only for purposes
of preparing food;
         (b)   That inhalation of nitrous oxide can have dangerous health
effects; and
         (c)   That it is a violation of state law to distribute or dispense
cartridges of nitrous oxide to any person under age 21, punishable as a felony
of the fifth degree.
      (4)   (a)   Each cartridge of nitrous oxide dispensed or distributed in
this municipality shall bear the following printed warning: “Nitrous oxide
cartridges are to be used only for purposes of preparing food. Nitrous oxide
cartridges may not be sold to persons under age 21. Do not inhale contents.
Misuse can be dangerous to your health”.
         (b)   Each time a person dispenses or distributes one or more
cartridges of nitrous oxide, the person shall mark the packaging containing the
cartridges with a label or other device that identifies the person who
dispensed or distributed the nitrous oxide and the person’s business address.
(R.C. § 2925.32(B)(4), (D)(2), (F), (G))
   (B)   Possession in a motor vehicle.
      (1)   As used in this section, MOTOR VEHICLE, STREET and HIGHWAY have the
same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      (2)   Unless authorized by this code or by state law, no person shall
possess an open cartridge of nitrous oxide in either of the following
circumstances:
         (a)   While operating or being a passenger in or on a motor vehicle on
a street, highway or other public or private property open to the public for
purposes of vehicular traffic or parking; or
         (b)   While being in or on a stationary motor vehicle on a street,
highway or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular traffic or parking.
      (3)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of possessing nitrous
oxide in a motor vehicle, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (4)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for
possessing nitrous oxide in a motor vehicle, the court may suspend for not more
than five years the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit.
(R.C. § 2925.33)
Statutory reference:
   Trafficking in harmful intoxicants, see R.C. § 2925.32
§ 138.13 LABORATORY REPORT REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   In any criminal prosecution for a violation of this chapter or
R.C. Chapters 2925 or 3719, a laboratory report from the Bureau of Criminal
Identification and Investigation or a laboratory operated by another law
enforcement agency, or a laboratory established by or under the authority of an
institution of higher education that has its main campus in this state and that
is accredited by the Association of American Universities or the North Central
Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools, primarily for the purpose of
providing scientific service to law enforcement agencies, and signed by the
person performing the analysis, stating that the substance that is the basis of
the alleged offense has been weighed and analyzed and stating the findings as
to the content, weight, and identity of the substance and that it contains any
amount of a controlled substance and the number and description of unit
dosages, is prima facie evidence of the content, identity and weight or the
existence and number of unit dosages of the substance. In any criminal
prosecution for a violation of R.C. § 2925.041 or a violation of this chapter,
R.C. Chapter 2925 or R.C. Chapter 3719 that is based on the possession of
chemicals sufficient to produce a compound, mixture, preparation or substance,
included in Schedule I, II, III, IV or V, a laboratory report from the Bureau
or from any laboratory that is operated or established as described in this
division that is signed by the person performing the analysis, stating that the
substances that are the basis of the alleged offense have been weighed and
analyzed and stating the findings as to the content, weight and identity of
each of the substances, is prima facie evidence of the content, identity and
weight of the substances.
      (2)   Attached to that report shall be a copy of a notarized statement by
the signer of the report giving the name of the signer and stating that the
signer is an employee of the laboratory issuing the report and that performing
the analysis is a part of the signer’s regular duties, and giving an outline of
the signer’s education, training and experience for performing an analysis of
materials included under this section. The signer shall attest that
scientifically accepted tests were performed with due caution, and that the
evidence was handled in accordance with established and accepted procedures
while in the custody of the laboratory.
   (B)   The prosecuting attorney shall serve a copy of the report on the
attorney of record for the accused, or on the accused if the accused has no
attorney, prior to any proceeding in which the report is to be used against the
accused other than at a preliminary hearing or grand jury proceeding where the
report may be used without having been previously served upon the accused.
   (C)   The report shall not be prima facie evidence of the contents, identity
and weight or the existence and number of unit dosages of the substance if the
accused or the accused’s attorney demands the testimony of the person signing
the report, by serving the demand upon the prosecuting attorney, within seven
days from the accused or the accused’s attorney’s receipt of the report. The
time may be extended by a trial judge in the interests of justice.
   (D)   Any report issued for use under this section shall contain notice of
the right of the accused to demand, and the manner in which the accused shall
demand, the testimony of the person signing the report.
   (E)   Any person who is accused of a violation of this chapter or R.C.
Chapters 2925 or 3719 is entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting
attorney, to have a portion of the substance that is, or of each of the
substances that are, the basis of the alleged violation preserved for the
benefit of independent analysis performed by a laboratory analyst employed by
the accused person, or, if the accused is indigent, by a qualified laboratory
analyst appointed by the court. Such portion shall be a representative sample
of the entire substance that is, or of each of the substances that are, the
basis of the alleged violation and shall be of sufficient size, in the opinion
of the court, to permit the accused’s analyst to make a thorough scientific
analysis concerning the identity of the substance or substances. The
prosecuting attorney shall provide the accused’s analyst with the sample
portion at least 14 days prior to trial, unless the trial is to be held in a
court not of record or unless the accused person is charged with a minor
misdemeanor, in which case the prosecuting attorney shall provide the accused’s
analyst with the sample portion at least three days prior to trial. If the
prosecuting attorney determines that such a sample portion cannot be preserved
and given to the accused’s analyst, the prosecuting attorney shall so inform
the accused person, or the accused’s attorney. In such a circumstance, the
accused person is entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting
attorney, to have the accused’s privately employed or court appointed analyst
present at an analysis of the substance that is, or the substances that are,
the basis of the alleged violation, and, upon further written request, to
receive copies of all recorded scientific data that result from the analysis
and that can be used by an analyst in arriving at conclusions, findings or
opinions concerning the identity of the substance or substances subject to the
analysis.
   (F)   In addition to the rights provided under division (E) above, any
person who is accused of a violation of this chapter or R.C. Chapters 2925 or
3719 that involves a bulk amount of a controlled substance, or any multiple
thereof, or who is accused of a violation of R.C. § 2925.11 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, other than a minor misdemeanor violation, that
involves marihuana, is entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting
attorney, to have a laboratory analyst of the accused’s choice, or, if the
accused is indigent, a qualified laboratory analyst appointed by the court,
present at a measurement or weighing of the substance that is the basis of the
alleged violation. Also, the accused person is entitled, upon further written
request, to receive copies of all recorded scientific data that result from the
measurement or weighing and that can be used by an analyst in arriving at
conclusions, findings or opinions concerning the weight, volume or number of
unit doses of the substance subject to the measurement or weighing.
(R.C. § 2925.51)
   (G)   In addition to the financial sanctions authorized or required under
R.C. §§ 2929.18 and 2929.28 and to any costs otherwise authorized or required
under any provision of law, the court imposing sentence upon an offender who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a drug abuse offense may order the offender to
pay to the state, municipal or county law enforcement agencies that handled the
investigation and prosecution all of the costs that the state, municipal
corporation or county reasonably incurred in having tests performed under this
section or R.C. § 2925.51 or in any other manner on any substance that was the
basis of, or involved in, the offense to determine whether the substance
contained any amount of a controlled substance if the results of the tests
indicate that the substance tested contained any controlled substance. No court
shall order an offender under this section to pay the costs of tests performed
on a substance if the results of the tests do not indicate that the substance
tested contained any controlled substance. The court shall hold a hearing to
determine the amount of costs to be imposed under this section. The court may
hold the hearing as part of the sentencing hearing for the offender.
(R.C. § 2925.511)
§ 138.14 COUNTERFEIT CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly possess any counterfeit controlled
substance.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) above shall be guilty of possession of
counterfeit controlled substances, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2925.37(A), (G))
Statutory reference:
   Trafficking and other felony counterfeit controlled substance offenses, see
R.C. § 2925.37(H) - (M)
§ 138.15 CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE OR PRESCRIPTION LABELS.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever a manufacturer sells a controlled substance, and
whenever a wholesaler, repackager or outsourcing facility sells a controlled
substance in a package the wholesaler, repackager or outsourcing facility has
prepared, the manufacturer or the wholesaler, repackager or outsourcing
facility, as the case may be, shall securely affix to each package in which the
controlled substance is contained a label showing in legible English the name
and address of the vendor and the quantity, kind and form of controlled
substance contained therein.
      (2)   No person, except a pharmacist for the purpose of dispensing a
controlled substance, upon a prescription shall alter, deface or remove any
label so affixed. As used in this division, “repackager” and “outsourcing
facility” have the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   (B)   No person shall alter, deface or remove any label affixed pursuant to
R.C. § 3719.08 as long as any of the original contents remain.
(R.C. § 3719.08(A), (E))
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (1)   If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of
this section, or R.C. § 3719.07 or 3719.08, or a drug abuse offense, a
violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (2)   If the violation involves the sale, offer to sell or possession of
a Schedule I or II controlled substance, with the exception of marihuana, and
if the offender, as a result of the violation, is a major drug offender, then
R.C. § 3719.99(D) applies.
(R.C. § 3719.99(C))
§ 138.16 POSSESSION, SALE AND DISPOSAL OF HYPODERMICS.
   (A)   Possession of a hypodermic is authorized for the following:
      (1)   A manufacturer or distributor of, or dealer in hypodermics, or
medication packaged in hypodermics, and any authorized agent of employee of
that manufacturer, distributor or dealer, in the regular course of business;
      (2)   A terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, in the regular course of
business;
      (3)   A person authorized to administer injections, in the regular course
of the person’s profession or employment;
      (4)   A person, when the hypodermic in his or her possession was lawfully
obtained and is kept and used for the purpose of self-administration of insulin
or other drug prescribed for the treatment of disease by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs;
      (5)   A person whose use of a hypodermic is for legal research, clinical,
educational or medicinal purposes;
      (6)   A farmer, for the lawful administration of a drug to an animal; and
      (7)   A person whose use of a hypodermic is for lawful professional,
mechanical, trade or craft purposes.
   (B)   No manufacturer or distributor of, or dealer in, hypodermics or
medication packaged in hypodermics, or their authorized agents or employees,
and no terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, shall display any hypodermic
for sale. No person authorized to possess a hypodermic pursuant to division (A)
above shall negligently fail to take reasonable precautions to prevent any
hypodermic in the person’s possession from theft or acquisition by any
unauthorized person.
(R.C. § 3719.172(A), (B))
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) above is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
third degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of
division (B) above, R.C. §§ 3719.05, 3719.06, 3719.13, 3719.172(B) or 3719.31,
or a drug abuse offense, a violation of division (B) above is a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
(R.C. § 3719.99(E))
Statutory reference:
   Felony offenses, see R.C. § 3719.172(C) and (D)
§ 138.17 CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE SCHEDULES.
   Controlled Substance Schedules I, II, III, IV and V, as established in R.C.
§ 3719.41 and amended by R.C. §§ 3719.43 and 3719.44, are hereby adopted by
reference, and shall be treated as if set forth in full herein.
§ 138.18 UNLAWFUL FURNISHING OF PRESCRIPTION TO ENABLE PERSONS TO BE ISSUED
HANDICAPPED PARKING PLACARDS OR LICENSE PLATES.
   (A)   No physician or chiropractor shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Furnish a person with a prescription in order to enable the person
to be issued a removable windshield placard, temporary removable windshield
placard or license plates under R.C. § 4503.44, knowing that the person does
not meet any of the criteria contained in R.C. § 4503.44(A)(1); or
      (2)   Furnish a person with a prescription described in division (A)(1)
above and knowingly misstate on the prescription the length of time the
physician or chiropractor expects the person to have the disability that limits
or impairs the person’s ability to walk in order to enable the person to retain
a placard issued under R.C. § 4503.44 for a period of time longer than that
which would be estimated by a similar practitioner under the same or similar
circumstances.
(R.C. §§ 4731.481, 4734.161)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. §§ 4731.99(F), 4734.99(B))
Cross-reference:
   Parking privileges for persons with disabilities, see §
76.06
§ 138.19 SALE OF PSEUDOEPHEDRINE.
   (A)   Unlawful purchases.
      (1)   As used in divisions (A), (B), (C) and (D) below:
         CONSUMER PRODUCT. Any food or drink that is consumed or used by humans
and any drug, including a drug that may be provided legally only pursuant to a
prescription, that is intended to be consumed or used by humans.
         EPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture or preparation that
contains any quantity of ephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers or salts
of optical isomers.
         EPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains ephedrine.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture or preparation that
contains any quantity of pseudoephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers or
salts of optical isomers.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains
pseudoephedrine.
         RETAILER. A place of business that offers consumer products for sale
to the general public.
         SINGLE-INGREDIENT PREPARATION. A compound, mixture, preparation or
substance that contains a single active ingredient.
         TERMINAL DISTRIBUTOR OF DANGEROUS DRUGS. Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 4729.01.
      (2)   (a)   1.   No individual shall knowingly purchase, receive or
otherwise acquire an amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
that is greater than either of the following unless the pseudoephedrine product
or ephedrine product is dispensed by a pharmacist pursuant to a valid
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs and the conduct of the pharmacist and the licensed health professional
authorized to prescribe drugs is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715,
4723, 4729, 4730, 4731 or 4741:
               a.   Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single day;
and
               b.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
            2.   The limits specified in divisions (A)(2)(a)1.a. and (A)(2)
(a)1.b. above apply to the total amount of base pseudoephedrine or base
ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, respectively.
The limits do not apply to the product’s overall weight.
         (b)   It is not a violation of division (B)(1) below for an individual
to receive or accept more than an amount of pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product specified in division (A)(2)(a)1.a. or (A)(2)(a)1.b. above if
the individual is an employee of a retailer or terminal distributor of
dangerous drugs, and the employee receives or accepts from the retailer or
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs the pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product in a sealed container in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading or unloading of the product.
      (3)   (a)   No individual under 18 years of age shall knowingly purchase,
receive or otherwise acquire a pseudoephedrine product, or ephedrine product
unless the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product is dispensed by a
pharmacist pursuant to a valid prescription issued by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs and the conduct of the pharmacist
and the licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs is in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731 or 4741.
         (b)   Division (A)(3)(a) above does not apply to an individual under
18 years of age who purchases, receives or otherwise acquires a pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product from any of the following:
            1.   A licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs
or pharmacist who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides the pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to that individual and whose conduct is in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731 or 4741;
            2.   A parent or guardian of that individual who provides the
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            3.   A person, as authorized by that individual’s parent or
guardian, who dispenses, sells or otherwise provides the pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to the individual; and
            4.   A retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs who
provides the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to that individual if
the individual is an employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of
dangerous drugs and the individual receives or accepts from the retailer or
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs the pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product in a sealed container in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading or unloading of the product.
      (4)   No individual under 18 years of age shall knowingly show or give
false information concerning the individual’s name, age or other identification
for the purpose of purchasing, receiving or otherwise acquiring a
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product.
      (5)   No individual shall knowingly fail to comply with the requirements
of R.C. § 3715.051(B).
      (6)   Whoever violates division (A)(2)(a) above is guilty of unlawful
purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (A)(3)(a) above is guilty of underage
purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a delinquent act
that would be a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if it could be committed by an
adult.
      (8)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) above is guilty of using false
information to purchase a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the first degree if it could be
committed by an adult.
      (9)   Whoever violates division (A)(5) above is guilty of improper
purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2925.55)
   (B)   Unlawful retail sales.
      (1)   (a)   1.   Except as provided in division (B)(1)(b) below, no
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs or an employee of a
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall knowingly sell, offer
to sell, hold for sale, deliver or otherwise provide to any individual an
amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product that is greater than
either of the following:
               a.   Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single day;
and
               b.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
            2.   The maximum amounts specified in divisions (B)(1)(a)1.a. and
(B)(1)(a)1.b. above apply to the total amount of base pseudoephedrine or base
ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, respectively.
The maximum amounts do not apply to the product’s overall weight.
         (b)   1.   Division (B)(1)(a) above does not apply to any quantity of
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product dispensed by a pharmacist pursuant
to a valid prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to
prescribe drugs if the conduct of the pharmacist and the licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs is in accordance with R.C. Chapter
3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731 or 4741.
            2.   It is not a violation of division (B)(1)(a) above for a
retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs or employee of either to
provide to an individual more than an amount of pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product specified in division (B)(1)(a)1.a. or (B)(1)(a)1.b. above
under either of the following circumstances:
               a.   The individual is an employee of the retailer or terminal
distributor of dangerous drugs, and the employee receives or accepts from the
retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs or employee the
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product in a sealed container in
connection with manufacturing, warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging,
loading or unloading of the product; and
               b.   A stop-sale alert is generated after the submission of
information to the national precursor log exchange under the conditions
described in R.C. § 3715.052(A)(2).
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (B)(2)(b) below, no retailer
or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs or an employee of a retailer or
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall sell, offer to sell, hold for
sale, deliver or otherwise provide a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product to an individual who is under 18 years of age.
         (b)   Division (B)(2)(a) above does not apply to any of the following:
            1.   A licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs
or pharmacist who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides a pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to an individual under 18 years of age and whose
conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731
or 4741;
            2.   A parent or guardian of an individual under 18 years of age
who provides a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            3.   A person who, as authorized by the individual’s parent or
guardian, dispenses, sells or otherwise provides a pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product to an individual under 18 years of age; and/or
            4.   The provision by a retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous
drugs or employee of either of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
in a sealed container to an employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of
dangerous drugs who is under 18 years of age in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading or unloading of the product.
      (3)   No retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall fail
to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 3715.051(A) or R.C. § 3715.052(A)(2).
      (4)   No retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall fail
to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 3715.052(A)(1).
      (5)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(a) above is guilty of unlawfully
selling a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (B)(2)(a) above is guilty of unlawfully
selling a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to a minor, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) above is guilty of improper sale
of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a misdemeanor of the second
degree.
      (8)   Whoever violates division (B)(4) above is guilty of failing to
submit information to the national precursor log exchange, a misdemeanor for
which the offender shall be fined not more than $1,000 per violation.
(R.C. § 2925.56)
   (C)   Transaction scans.
      (1)   As used in this division and division (D) below:
         CARD HOLDER. Any person who presents a driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or an identification card to a seller, or an agent or employee of a
seller, to purchase or receive any pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
from the seller, agent or employee.
         IDENTIFICATION CARD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2927.021.
         SELLER. A retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs.
         TRANSACTION SCAN. The process by which a seller or an agent or
employee of a seller checks by means of a transaction scan device the validity
of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification card that is
presented as a condition for purchasing or receiving any pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product.
         TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2927.021.
      (2)   (a)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may perform a
transaction scan by means of a transaction scan device to check the validity of
a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a
card holder as a condition for selling, giving away or otherwise distributing
to the card holder a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product.
         (b)   If the information deciphered by the transaction scan performed
under division (C)(2)(a) above fails to match the information printed on the
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the
card holder, or if the transaction scan indicates that the information so
printed is false or fraudulent, neither the seller nor any agent or employee of
the seller shall sell, give away or otherwise distribute any pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to the card holder.
         (c)   Division (C)(2)(a) of this section does not preclude a seller or
an agent or employee of a seller as a condition for selling, giving away or
otherwise distributing a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the
person presenting the document from using a transaction scan device to check
the validity of a document other than a driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or an identification card if the document includes a bar code or magnetic strip
that may be scanned by the device.
      (3)   Rules adopted by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles under R.C. §
4301.61(C) apply to the use of transaction scan devices for purposes of this
division (C) and division (D) below.
      (4)   (a)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall
electronically or mechanically record or maintain any information derived from
a transaction scan, except the following:
            1.   The name, address and date of birth of the person listed on
the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by
a card holder; and
            2.   The expiration date, identification number and issuing agency
of the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by a card holder.
         (b)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use the
information that is derived from a transaction scan or that is permitted to be
recorded and maintained under division (C)(4)(a) above except for purposes of
division (D) below, R.C. § 2925.58, or R.C. § 3715.052(A)(1).
         (c)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use a
transaction scan device for a purpose other than the purpose specified in
division (C)(2)(a) above.
         (d)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall sell or
otherwise disseminate the information derived from a transaction scan to any
third-party, including, but not limited to, selling or otherwise disseminating
that information for any marketing, advertising or promotional activities, but
a seller or agent or employee of a seller may release that information pursuant
to a court order or as specifically authorized by division (D) below or any
other section of the Ohio Revised Code.
      (5)   Nothing in this division (C) above or division (D) below relieves a
seller or an agent or employee of a seller of any responsibility to comply with
any other applicable state or federal laws or rules governing the sale, giving
away, or other distribution of pseudoephedrine products or ephedrine products.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (C)(2)(b) or (C)(4) of this section is
guilty of engaging in an illegal pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
transaction scan, and the court may impose upon the offender a civil penalty of
up to $1,000 for each violation. The Clerk of the Court shall pay each
collected civil penalty to the County Treasurer for deposit into the County
Treasury.
(R.C. § 2925.57)
   (D)   Affirmative defenses.
      (1)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may not be found
guilty of a charge of a violation of division (B) above in which the age of the
purchaser or other recipient of a pseudoephedrine product is an element of the
alleged violation if the seller, agent or employee raises and proves as an
affirmative defense that all of the following occurred:
         (a)   A card holder attempting to purchase or receive a
pseudoephedrine product presented a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
an identification card.
         (b)   A transaction scan of the driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or identification card that the card holder presented indicated that
the license or card was valid.
         (c)   The pseudoephedrine product was sold, given away or otherwise
distributed to the card holder in reasonable reliance upon the identification
presented and the completed transaction scan.
      (2)   In determining whether a seller or an agent or employee of a seller
has proven the affirmative defense provided by division (D)(1) above, the trier
of fact in the action for the alleged violation of division (B) of this section
shall consider any written policy that the seller has adopted and implemented
and that is intended to prevent violations of division (B) above. For purposes
of division (D)(1)(c) above, the trier of fact shall consider that reasonable
reliance upon the identification presented and the completed transaction scan
may require a seller or an agent or employee of a seller to exercise reasonable
diligence to determine, and that the use of a transaction scan device does not
excuse a seller or an agent or employee of a seller from exercising reasonable
diligence to determine, the following:
         (a)   Whether a person to whom the seller or agent or employee of a
seller sells, gives away or otherwise distributes a pseudoephedrine product is
18 years of age or older; or
         (b)   Whether the description and picture appearing on the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a card holder
is that of the card holder.
      (3)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense provided by
division (D)(1) above is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a deputy
registrar who issued an identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50 through
4507.52 shall be permitted to submit certified copies of the records of that
issuance in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of or contractors with the
Bureau of Motor Vehicles in the action.
(R.C. § 2925.58)
   (E)   Retailer’s duties.
      (1)   As used in this division (E) and (F):
         CONSUMER PRODUCT. Any food or drink that is consumed or used by humans
and any drug, including a drug that may be provided legally only pursuant to a
prescription, that is intended to be consumed or used by humans.
         DRUG. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         EPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture or preparation that
contains any quantity of ephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers or salts
of optical isomers.
         EPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains ephedrine.
         LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL. An officer or employee of any agency or
authority of the United States, a state, a territory, a political subdivision
of a state or territory or an Indian who is empowered by the law to investigate
or conduct an official inquiry into a potential violation of law or prosecute
or otherwise conduct a criminal, civil or administrative proceeding arising
from an alleged violation of law.
         LICENSED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL AUTHORIZED TO PRESCRIBE DRUGS. Has the
same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         NATIONAL PRECURSOR LOG EXCHANGE or EXCHANGE. The electronic system for
tracking sales of pseudoephedrine products and ephedrine products on a national
basis that is administered by the National Association of Drug Diversion
Investigators or a successor organization.
         PHARMACIST. A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 to engage in the
practice of pharmacy.
         PHARMACY. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         PRESCRIBER. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         PRESCRIPTION. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         PROOF OF AGE. A driver’s license, a commercial driver’s license, a
military identification card, a passport or an identification card issued under
R.C. §§ 4507.50 to 4507.52 that shows a person is 18 years of age or older.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture or preparation that
contains any quantity of pseudoephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers or
salts of optical isomers.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains
pseudoephedrine.
         RETAILER. A place of business that offers consumer products for sale
to the general public.
         SINGLE-INGREDIENT PREPARATION. A compound, mixture, preparation or
substance that contains a single active ingredient.
         STOP-SALE ALERT. A notification sent from the national precursor log
exchange to a retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs indicating
that the completion of a sale of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
would result in a violation of R.C. § 2925.56(A)(1) or federal law.
         TERMINAL DISTRIBUTOR OF DANGEROUS DRUGS. Has the same meanings as in
R.C. § 4729.01.
         WHOLESALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
      (2)   A retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs that sells,
offers to sell, holds for sale, delivers or otherwise provides a
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the public shall do all of the
following:
         (a)   Segregate pseudoephedrine products or ephedrine products from
other merchandise so that no member of the public may procure or purchase such
products without the direct assistance of a pharmacist or other authorized
employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs;
         (b)   With regard to each time a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product is sold or otherwise provided without a valid prescription:
            1.   Determine, by examination of a valid proof of age, that the
purchaser or recipient is at least 18 years of age;
            2.   a.   Using any information available, including information
from the national precursor log exchange if the information is accessible, make
a reasonable attempt to ensure that no individual purchases or receives an
amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product that is greater than
either of the following:
                  i.   Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single
day; and
                  ii.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
               b.   The maximum amounts specified in divisions (E)(2)(b)2.a.i.
and (E)(2)(b)2.a.ii. above apply to the total amount of base pseudoephedrine or
base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product,
respectively. The maximum amounts do not apply to the product’s overall weight.
         (c)   Maintain a log book of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product purchases, in accordance with R.C. § 3715.051; or
         (d)   If required to comply with section R.C. § 3715.052, submit the
information specified in divisions (A)(1)(a) to (A)(1)(d) of that section to
the national precursor log exchange.
      (3)   Prescriptions, orders and records maintained pursuant to this
section and stocks of pseudoephedrine products and ephedrine products shall be
open for inspection to federal, state, county and municipal officers, and
employees of the State Board of Pharmacy whose duty it is to enforce the laws
of this state or of the United States relating to controlled substances. Such
prescriptions, orders, records and stocks shall be open for inspection by the
State Medical Board and its employees for purposes of enforcing R.C. Chapter
4731.
(R.C. § 3715.05)
   (F)   Theft or loss; reporting requirements.
      (1)   Each retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, pharmacy,
prescriber or wholesaler that sells, offers to sell, holds for sale, delivers
or otherwise provides any pseudoephedrine product and that discovers the theft
or loss of any pseudoephedrine product in an amount of more than nine grams per
incident of theft or loss shall notify all of the following upon discovery of
the theft or loss:
         (a)   The State Board of Pharmacy, by telephone immediately upon
discovery of the theft or loss; or
         (b)   Law enforcement authorities. If the incident is a theft and the
theft constitutes a felony, the retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous
drugs, pharmacy, prescriber or wholesaler shall report the theft to the law
enforcement authorities in accordance with R.C. § 2921.22.
      (2)   Within 30 days after making a report by telephone to the State
Board of Pharmacy pursuant to division (F)(1)(a) above, a retailer, terminal
distributor of dangerous drugs, pharmacy, prescriber or wholesaler shall send a
written report to the State Board of Pharmacy.
      (3)   The reports required under this section shall identify the product
that was stolen or lost, the amount of the product stolen or lost, and the date
and time of discovery of the theft or loss.
(R.C. § 3715.06)
§ 138.20 SALE OF PURE CAFFEINE PRODUCT.
   (A)   As used in this section, PURE CAFFEINE PRODUCT means:
      (1)   Subject to division (A)(2) below, a product that consists solely or
primarily of caffeine and is manufactured into a crystalline, liquid or
powdered form.
      (2)   The phrase does not include any of the following that contains
caffeine and is formulated, manufactured and labeled in accordance with the
laws and regulations enforced by the United States Food and Drug
Administration:
         (a)   Coffee, tea, any soft drink, any energy drink or any other
caffeine-containing beverage; or
         (b)   Any energy product.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) below, no person shall knowingly
sell or offer for sale a pure caffeine product.
   (C)   Division (B) above does not prohibit a person from selling or offering
for sale any product manufactured in a unit-dose form, such as a pill, tablet
or caplet, but only if each unit dose of the product contains not more than 250
milligrams of caffeine.
   (D)   Nothing in this section prohibits either of the following:
      (1)   Possession of a product described in division (C) above; or
      (2)   Possession of a pure caffeine product by any of the following:
         (a)   A food processing establishment, as defined in R.C. § 3715.021;
         (b)   A manufacturer of a drug that is available without a
prescription;
         (c)   A laboratory that holds a current, valid category III terminal
distributor of dangerous drugs license issued by the state board of pharmacy
under R.C. § 4729.54;
         (d)   A laboratory of any agency or department of this state that
performs testing, analysis and other laboratory services on behalf of the
state; or
         (e)   A postal or delivery service that transports or delivers a pure
caffeine product to an entity specified in divisions (D)(2)(a) to (D)(2)(d)
above.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (B) above is guilty of illegal sale of pure
caffeine, a minor misdemeanor on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the third
degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 2925.34)
§ 138.21 SALE OF DEXTROMETHORPHAN.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      DEXTROMETHORPHAN. The dextrorotatory isomer of 3-methoxy-N-
methylmorphinan, including its salts, but not including its racemic or
levorotatory forms.
      EVIDENCE OF MAJORITY AND IDENTITY. A document issued by the federal
government or a state, county or municipal government, or a subdivision or
agency of any of the foregoing, including a driver’s or commercial driver’s
license, an identification card issued under R.C. §§ 4507.50 to 4507.52, a
military identification card, or any other form of identification that bears
the name, date of birth, description, and picture of the person identified.
      RETAILER. A place of business that offers consumer products for sale to
the general public, including a terminal distributor of dangerous drugs that is
licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 and operated as a pharmacy.
   (B)   No retailer or employee of a retailer shall knowingly supply, deliver,
give or otherwise provide a drug, material, compound, mixture, preparation or
substance containing any quantity of dextromethorphan through the sale of any
product to a person under 18 years of age, unless the person has been issued a
prescription for the product being purchased.
   (C)   (1)   For purposes of division (B) above, the person making the sale
of a product containing dextromethorphan shall require and obtain evidence of
majority and identity from the purchaser, unless from the purchaser’s outward
appearance the person making the sale would reasonably presume the purchaser to
be 25 years of age or older.
      (2)   Proof that the person making the sale demanded, was shown and acted
in reasonable reliance on the purchaser’s evidence of majority and identity is
a defense to any charge of a violation of division (B) above.
   (D)   A retailer or employee of a retailer is not liable for damages in a
civil action for injury, death or loss to person or property that allegedly
arises from an act or omission associated with a failure to prevent the sale of
a product containing dextromethorphan to a person under 18 years of age, unless
the act or omission constitutes willful or wanton misconduct.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (B) above is guilty of illegally selling
dextromethorphan, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2925.62)
CHAPTER 139: OFFENSES AGAINST MINORS
Section
   
139.01   Unlawful restraint
   
139.02   Coercion
   
139.03   Endangering children
   
139.04   Interference with custody
   
139.05   Domestic violence
§ 139.01 UNLAWFUL RESTRAINT.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly restrain
another of the other person’s liberty.
   (B)   No person, without privilege to do so and with a sexual motivation,
shall knowingly restrain another of the other person’s liberty.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful restraint, a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   As used in this section, SEXUAL MOTIVATION has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2971.01.
(R.C. § 2905.03) (Prior Code, § 9.03.01)
§ 139.02 COERCION.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to coerce another into taking or refraining
from action concerning which the other person has a legal freedom of choice,
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Threaten to commit any offense;
      (2)   Utter or threaten any slander against any person;
      (3)   Expose or threaten to expose any matter tending to subject any
person to hatred, contempt or ridicule, or to damage any person’s personal or
business repute, or to impair any person’s credit;
      (4)   Institute or threaten criminal proceedings against any person; or
      (5)   Take or withhold, or threaten to take or withhold official action,
or cause or threaten to cause official action to be taken or withheld.
   (B)   Divisions (A)(4) and (A)(5) above shall not be construed to prohibit a
prosecutor or court from doing any of the following in good faith and in the
interests of justice:
      (1)   Offering or agreeing to grant, or granting immunity from
prosecution pursuant to R.C. § 2945.44;
      (2)   In return for a plea of guilty to one or more offenses charged or
to one or more other or lesser offenses, or in return for the testimony of the
accused in a case to which the accused is not a party, offering or agreeing to
dismiss, or dismissing one or more charges pending against an accused, or
offering or agreeing to impose, or imposing a certain sentence or modification
of sentence; and
      (3)   Imposing a community control sanction on certain conditions,
including without limitation requiring the offender to make restitution or
redress to the victim of the offense.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(3), (A)(4)
or (A)(5) above that the actor’s conduct was a reasonable response to the
circumstances which occasioned it, and that the actor’s purpose was limited to
any of the following:
      (1)   Compelling another to refrain from misconduct or to desist from
further misconduct;
      (2)   Preventing or redressing a wrong or injustice;
      (3)   Preventing another from taking action for which the actor
reasonably believed the other person to be disqualified; or
      (4)   Compelling another to take action which the actor reasonably
believed the other person to be under a duty to take.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of coercion, a misdemeanor of
the second degree.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      COMMUNITY CONTROL SANCTION has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      THREAT includes a direct threat and a threat by innuendo.
(R.C. § 2905.12) (Prior Code, § 9.03.03)
§ 139.03 ENDANGERING CHILDREN.
   (A)   No person, who is the parent, guardian, custodian, person having
custody or control or person in loco parentis of a child under 18 years of age
or a mentally or physically disabled child under 21 years of age, shall create
a substantial risk to the health or safety of the child by violating a duty of
care, protection or support. It is not a violation of a duty of care,
protection or support under this division when the parent, guardian, custodian
or person having custody or control of a child treats the physical or mental
illness or disability of the child by spiritual means through prayer alone, in
accordance with the tenets of a recognized religious body.
   (B)   No person shall do any of the following to a child under 18 years of
age or a mentally or physically disabled child under 21 years of age:
      (1)   Abuse the child;
      (2)   Torture or cruelly abuse the child;
      (3)   Administer corporal punishment or other physical disciplinary
measure, or physically restrain the child in a cruel manner or for a prolonged
period, which punishment, discipline or restraint is excessive under the
circumstances and creates a substantial risk of serious physical harm to the
child;
      (4)   Repeatedly administer unwarranted disciplinary measures to a child
when there is a substantial risk that such conduct, if continued, will
seriously impair or retard the child’s mental health or development;
      (5)   Entice, coerce, permit, encourage, compel, hire, employ, use or
allow the child to act, model or in any other way participate in, or be
photographed for, the production, presentation, dissemination or advertisement
of any material or performance that the offender knows or reasonably should
know is obscene, is sexually oriented matter or is nudity-oriented matter; and
      (6)   Allow the child to be on the same parcel of real property and
within 100 feet of, or, in the case of more than one housing unit on the same
parcel of real property, in the same housing unit and within 100 feet of, any
act in violation of R.C. § 2925.04 or 2925.041 when the person knows that the
act is occurring, whether or not any person is prosecuted for or convicted of
the violation of R.C. § 2925.04 or 2925.041 that is the basis of the violation
of this division.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle, as defined by R.C. § 4511.01,
within the municipality and in violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, when one or more children under
18 years of age are in the vehicle. Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
a person may be convicted at the same trial or proceeding of a violation of
this division and a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that constitutes the basis of the charge of the
violation of this division. For purposes of R.C. §§ 4511.191 through 4511.197
and all related provisions of law, a person arrested for a violation of this
division shall be considered to be under arrest for operating a vehicle while
under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse or a combination of them or for
operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled
substance or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath or urine.
      (2)   As used in division (C)(1) above:
         CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
         VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   (D)   (1)   Division (B)(5) below does not apply to any material or
performance that is produced, presented or disseminated for a bona fide
medical, scientific, educational, religious, governmental, judicial or other
proper purpose, by or to a physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist,
teacher, person pursuing bona fide studies for research, librarian, member of
the clergy, prosecutor, judge or other person having a proper interest in the
material or performance.
      (2)   Mistake of age is not a defense to a charge under division (B)(5)
above.
      (3)   In a prosecution under division (B)(5) above, the trier of fact may
infer that an actor, model, or participant in the material or performance
involved is a juvenile if the material or performance, through its title, text,
visual representation or otherwise, represents or depicts the actor, model or
participant as a juvenile.
      (4)   As used in this division and division (B)(5) above:
         MATERIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
         NUDITY-ORIENTED MATTER. Any material or performance that shows a minor
in a state of nudity and that, taken as a whole by the average person applying
contemporary community standards, appeals to the prurient interest.
         OBSCENE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
         PERFORMANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
         SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
         SEXUALLY ORIENTED MATTER. Any material or performance that shows a
minor participating or engaging in sexual activity, masturbation or bestiality.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of endangering children.
      (1)   If the offender violates division (A) or (B)(1) above, endangering
children is one of the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (E)(1)(b), (E)(1)(c) or
(E)(1)(d) below, a misdemeanor of the first degree;
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of an offense
under this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, or of any offense involving neglect, abandonment or contributing to
the delinquency of or physical abuse of a child, except as otherwise provided
in division (E)(1)(c) or (E)(1)(d) below, endangering children is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law;
         (c)   If the violation is a violation of division (A) above and
results in serious physical harm to the child involved, endangering children is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law; or
         (d)   If the violation is a violation of division (B)(1) above and
results in serious physical harm to the child involved, endangering children is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the offender violates division (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(5) or
(B)(6) above, endangering children is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the offender violates division (C) above, the offender shall be
punished as follows.
         (a)   Except as provided in (E)(3)(b) or (E)(3)(c) below, endangering
children in violation of division (C) above is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
         (b)   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the child
or if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this section
or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any
offense involving neglect, abandonment, or contributing to the delinquency of
or physical abuse of a child, except as otherwise provided in division (E)(3)
(c) above, endangering children in violation of division (C) above is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the child
and if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this
section, R.C. §§ 2903.06, 2903.08, 2919.22(C) or former R.C. § 2903.07 as it
existed prior to March 23, 2000, or R.C. § 2903.04, in a case in which the
offender was subject to the sanctions described in division (D) above,
endangering children in violation of division (C) above is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (d)   In addition to any term of imprisonment, fine or other sentence,
penalty or sanction it imposes upon the offender pursuant to divisions (E)(3)
(a), (E)(3)(b) or (E)(3)(c) above or pursuant to any other provision of law,
and in addition to any suspension of the offender’s driver’s license or
commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege under
R.C. Chapter 4506, 4509, 4510 or 4511, or any other provision of law, the court
also may impose upon the offender a class seven suspension of the offender’s
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating
privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
         (e)   In addition to any term of imprisonment, fine or other sentence,
penalty or sanction imposed upon the offender pursuant to division (E)(3)(a),
(E)(3)(b), (E)(3)(c) or (E)(3)(d) above or pursuant to any other provision of
law for the violation of division (C) above, if as a part of the same trial or
proceeding the offender also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a separate
charge charging the violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the charge of the
violation of division (C) above, the offender also shall be sentenced in
accordance with R.C. § 4511.19, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, for that violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (F)   (1)   If a person violates division (C) above and if, at the time of
the violation, there were two or more children under 18 years of age in the
motor vehicle involved in the violation, the offender may be convicted of a
violation of division (C) above for each of the children, but the court may
sentence the offender for only one of the violations.
      (2)   (a)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation
of division (C) above but the person is not also convicted of and does not also
plead guilty to a separate charge of violating R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the charge
of the violation of division (C) above, both the following apply:
            1.   For purposes of the provisions of R.C. § 4511.19, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that set forth the penalties and
sanctions for a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, the conviction of or plea of guilty to the violation of
division (C) above shall not constitute a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal; and
            2.   For purposes of the provisions of law that refers to a
conviction of or plea of guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and that is not described in
division (F)(2)(a)1. above, the conviction of or plea of guilty to the
violation of division (C) above shall constitute a conviction or plea of guilty
to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
         (b)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (C) above and the person also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
separate charge of violating R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the charge of the violation of
division (C) above, the conviction of or plea of guilty to the violation of
division (C) above shall not constitute, for the purposes of any provision of
law that refers to a conviction of or a plea of guilty to a violation of R.C. §
4511.19(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, a conviction of
or a plea of guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 2919.22(A) - (E), (H)) (Prior Code, § 9.08.01)
Statutory reference:
   Community service, requirements, see R.C. § 2919.22(F)
   License suspension, requirements, see R.C. § 2919.22(G)
   Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.15
§ 139.04 INTERFERENCE WITH CUSTODY.
   (A)   Interference with custody.
      (1)   No person, knowing that he or she is without privilege to do so or
being reckless in that regard, shall entice, take, keep or harbor a person
identified in division (A)(1)(a), (A)(1)(b) or (A)(1)(c) below from the parent,
guardian or custodian of the person identified in division (A)(1)(a), (A)(1)(b)
or (A)(1)(c) below:
         (a)   A child under the age of 18, or a mentally or physically
disabled child under the age of 21;
         (b)   A person committed by law to an institution for delinquent,
unruly, neglected, abused or dependent children; and
         (c)   A person committed by law to an institution for the mentally ill
or an institution for persons with intellectual disabilities.
      (2)   No person shall aid, abet, induce, cause or encourage a child or a
ward of the juvenile court who has been committed to the custody of any person,
department or public or private institution to leave the custody of that
person, department or institution without legal consent.
      (3)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of enticing or taking
under division (A)(1)(a) above that the actor reasonably believed that his or
her conduct was necessary to preserve the child’s health or safety. It is an
affirmative defense to a charge of keeping or harboring under division (A)(1)
above that the actor in good faith gave notice to law enforcement or judicial
authorities within a reasonable time after the child or committed person came
under his or her shelter, protection or influence.
      (4)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interference with
custody.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this subdivision, a violation of
division (A)(1)(a) above is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the child who
is the subject of a violation of division (A)(1)(a) above is removed from the
state or if the offender previously has been convicted of an offense under this
section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (A)(1)(a) above is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If the child who is the subject of a violation of
division (A)(1)(a) above suffers physical harm as a result of the violation, a
violation of division (A)(1)(a) above is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
         (b)   A violation of division (A)(1)(b) or (A)(1)(c) above is a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
         (c)   A violation of division (A)(2) above is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. Each day of a violation of division (A)(2) above is a separate
offense.
(R.C. § 2919.23)
   (B)   Interference with support orders.
      (1)   No person, by using physical harassment or threats of violence
against another person, shall interfere with the other person’s initiation or
continuance of, or attempt to prevent the other person from initiating or
continuing, an action to issue or modify a support order under R.C. Chapter
3115, or under R.C. §§ 2151.23, 2151.231, 2151.232, 2151.33, 2151.36, 2151.361,
2151.49, 3105.18, 3105.21, 3109.05, 3109.19, 3111.13, 3113.04, 3113.07 or
3113.31.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of interfering with an
action to issue or modify a support order, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a
violation of this division (B) or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, or R.C. § 3111.19, interfering with an action to issue or
modify a support order is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
(R.C. § 2919.231) (Prior Code, § 9.08.02)
§ 139.05 DOMESTIC VIOLENCE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cause or attempt to cause physical harm to a
family or household member.
   (B)   No person shall recklessly cause serious physical harm to a family or
household member.
   (C)   No person, by threat of force, shall knowingly cause a family or
household member to believe that the offender will cause imminent physical harm
to the family or household member.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of domestic violence,
and the court shall sentence the offender as provided in divisions (D)(2) to
(D)(5) below.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3), (D)(4) or (D)(5)
below, a violation of division (C) above is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree
and a violation of division (A) or (B) above is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(4) below, if the
offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted of domestic
violence, a violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or the United States that is substantially equivalent
to domestic violence, a violation of R.C. §§ 2903.14, 2909.06, 2909.07,
2911.12, 2911.211 or 2919.22 if the victim of the violation was a family or
household member at the time of the violation, a violation of an existing or
former municipal ordinance or law of this or any other state or the United
States that is substantially equivalent to any of those sections if the victim
of the violation was a family or household member at the time of the commission
of the violation, or any offense of violence if the victim of the offense was a
family or household member at the time of the commission of the offense, a
violation of division (A) or (B) above is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law, and a violation of division (C) above is a misdemeanor
of the second degree.
      (4)   If the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted
of two or more offenses of domestic violence or two or more violations or
offenses of the type described in division (D)(3) above involving a person who
was a family or household member at the time of the violations or offenses, a
violation of division (A) or (B) above is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law, and a violation of division (C) above is a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) or (D)(4) above, if
the offender knew that the victim of the violation was pregnant at the time of
the violation, a violation of division (A) or (B) above is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law, and a violation of division (C) above
is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no court or unit
of state or local government shall charge any fee, cost, deposit or money in
connection with the filing of charges against a person alleging that the person
violated this section or a municipal ordinance substantially equivalent to this
section or in connection with the prosecution of any charges so filed.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Any of the following:
         (a)   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
offender:
            1.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse as defined below or a
former spouse of the offender;
            2.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the offender, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the offender; and
            3.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse, or
former spouse of the offender, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
offender.
         (b)   The natural parent of any child of whom the offender is the
other natural parent or is the putative other natural parent.
      PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE. A person who is living or has lived with the
offender in a common law marital relationship, who otherwise is cohabiting with
the offender, or who otherwise has cohabited with the offender within five
years prior to the date of the alleged commission of the act in question.
(R.C. § 2919.25) (Prior Code, § 9.08.03)
Cross-reference:
   Violation of protection orders, see §
135.20
Statutory reference:
   Temporary protection orders, see R.C. § 2919.26
   Violation of protection order or consent agreement, factors to consider,
bail, see R.C. § 2919.251
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
152.   FLOOD DAMAGE REDUCTION
      
153.   ZONING
      
154.   SIDEWALK CAFÉS
      
155.   RENTAL PROPERTY
      
156.   VACANT PROPERTY
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Numbers
   
150.01   Title
   
150.02   Purpose
   
150.03   Authorization
   
150.04   House numbers
   
150.05   Specification for address numbers
   
150.06   Future address numbering
   
150.07   Modifications and adjustments
   
150.08   Applicability
   
150.09   Violations
   
150.10   Interpretation
Key Lock
   
150.25   Key lock box system
   
150.26   Applicability
   
150.27   Interpretation
BUILDING NUMBERS
§ 150.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the Building Numbering Ordinance for the
city, and will be referred to herein as “this subchapter”.
(Prior Code, § 13.01.01)
§ 150.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for the posting of building
numbers to enhance the easy and rapid location of properties for the delivery
of public safety and emergency services, postal delivery and business delivery
in the city.
(Prior Code, § 13.02.01)
§ 150.03 AUTHORIZATION.
   This subchapter is intended to provide for the health, safety and general
welfare of the public to enhance provisions of emergency services to the
citizens of the city.
(Prior Code, § 13.03.01)
§ 150.04 HOUSE NUMBERS.
   (A)   A house or building number shall be assigned to each dwelling,
commercial or industrial building in the city. The combination of such numbers
and the road or street name shall be the official address of such dwelling or
building. Such location shall serve as the official mailing address for postal
patrons receiving home or rural delivery. When each house or building has been
assigned it’s respective address, the owner, occupant or agent shall place, or
cause to be placed, upon each house or building controlled by him or her the
number or numbers assigned under the uniform numbering system within 60 days of
the notification of the assigned address.
   (B)   Such numbers shall be posted near the principal entrance to the
property and in a manner as to be legible from the road on which the property
is located. Owners of buildings, which are not visible from the road, shall
place the assigned number on a post or on a mailbox at the entrance to the
property.
   (C)   Such numbers shall be placed on new buildings prior to occupancy. The
cost of posting the address shall be the responsibility of the property owner.
Every person whose duty it is to display the assigned number or road name sign
shall remove any different number or name which might be mistaken for, or
confused with, the number or name assigned in conformance with this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.01) Penalty, see §
10.30
§ 150.05 SPECIFICATION FOR ADDRESS NUMBERS.
   (A)   Residences. Street address numbers for residences shall be in Arabic
numerals at least three inches in height and shall be of a durable and clearly
visible material, preferably reflective and of a contrasting color to the
background on which they are mounted. The numbers shall be conspicuously placed
on, above or at the side of the main entrance so that the number is discernible
from the street. Whenever a residence is more than 50 feet from the street, or
when the entrance is not visible from the street, the number shall be placed
along a walk, driveway or other suitable location so that address numbers shall
be visible from the street.
   (B)   Commercial. Street address numbers for commercial and industrial
structures shall be in Arabic numerals at least four inches in height and shall
be of a durable and clearly visible material, preferably reflective and of a
contrasting color to the background on which they are mounted, if located
within 50 feet of a roadway or at least ten inches in height and shall be of a
durable and clearly visible material, preferably reflective and of a
contrasting color to the background on which they are mounted, if located
greater than 50 feet from the street. The number shall be placed above or on
the main entrance to the structure when possible. If such number is not visible
from the street, the number shall be placed along a driveway or on a sign
visible from the street.
   (C)   Apartments, trailer parks and the like. Apartments and similar
complexes assigned a single building number shall display address numbers on
each assigned structure using Arabic numerals, having a minimum height of eight
inches and shall be of a durable and clearly visible material, preferably
reflective and of a contrasting color to the background on which they are
mounted. Trailer parks and similar complexes assigned a single building number
shall display the assigned number at the main entranceway using numbers having
a minimum height of eight inches, and shall be of a durable and clearly visible
material, preferably reflective and of a contrasting color to the background on
which they are mounted. Numbers or letters for individual apartments, trailers
or units within these complexes shall be displayed on, above or to the side of
the main doorway of each apartment, trailer or unit, and shall be in Arabic
numerals at least three inches in height and shall be of a durable and clearly
visible material, preferably reflective and of a contrasting color to the
background on which they are mounted.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.02) Penalty, see §
10.30
§ 150.06 FUTURE ADDRESS NUMBERING.
   Whenever any house, building or structure shall be erected or located after
the initial establishment of the uniform numbering system as provided herein,
it shall be the duty of the property owner to procure the correct number or
numbers for the said property and to affix said numbers to said building in
accordance with this subchapter. An application for a building permit for a new
building shall be considered an application for an address assignment. The
building official shall coordinate the application with the designated agent of
the City Manager responsible for the assignment of addresses and forward the
assigned address to the applicant not later than 60 days following issuance of
said permit. The applicant shall be required to furnish such measurements in
relation to other properties or be required to furnish such landmarks as shall
be deemed necessary for assignment of a valid address.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.03) Penalty, see §
10.30
§ 150.07 MODIFICATIONS AND ADJUSTMENTS.
   In applying the guidelines specified herein, the City Manager, or his or her
duly authorized agent, shall have the authority to make minor adjustments and
modifications to ensure logical and efficient street address system.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.04)
§ 150.08 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall be applicable in all areas of the
city.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.05)
§ 150.09 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever the City Manager, or his or her duly authorized agent, has
reason to believe there has been or there exists a violation of this
subchapter, he or she shall give written notice of such violation to the person
failing to comply, and order said person to take corrective measures within 30
days from the date of the notification. If such person fails to comply with the
duly issued order, the City Manager, or his or her agent, shall initiate
necessary actions to terminate the violation through criminal or civil
measures.
   (B)   Any violation of this subchapter shall constitute a class four
misdemeanor. Subsequent to the 30-day period following notification of
violation, each day of violation shall constitute a separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.06)
§ 150.10 INTERPRETATION.
   Interpretation of what may not be clear in this subchapter shall be
according to the intent of the subchapter and the comprehensive plan.
(Prior Code, § 13.04.07)
KEY LOCK
§ 150.25 KEY LOCK BOX SYSTEM.
   (A)   The following structures shall be equipped with a key lock box at or
near the main entrance or such other location required by the Fire Chief:
      (1)   Commercial or industrial structures protected by an automatic alarm
system or automatic suppression system, or such structures that are secured in
a manner that restricts access during an emergency, or such structures that
have mechanical or electrical rooms within the building that is denied access
through locked doors;
      (2)   Multi-family residential structures containing four or more
residential living units, multi-family residential complexes containing two or
more buildings and in which access to the building(s) or to common areas or
mechanical or electrical rooms within the building is denied through locked
doors;
      (3)   Governmental structures and nursing care facilities and hospitals;
      (4)   Any building or facility containing a quantity of hazardous
materials which would require compliance with Title III of SARA (Superfund
Amendment Reauthorization Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 1101 et seq.); and
      (5)   Buildings or structures used for public assembly including, places
of worship and private clubs.
   (B)   All newly constructed structures subject to this section shall have
the key lock box installed and operational prior to the issuance of occupancy
permit. All structures in existence on the effective date of this section and
subject to this section shall have one year from the effective date of this
section to have a key lock box installed and operational.
   (C)   The Fire Chief shall designate the type of key lock box system to be
implemented within the city and shall have the authority to require all
structures to use the designated system.
   (D)   The owner or operator of a structure required to have a key lock box
shall, at all times, keep a key in the lock box that will allow for access to
the structure.
   (E)   The Fire Chief shall be authorized to implement rules and regulations
for the use of the lock box system.
   (F)   Any person who owns or operates a structure subject to this section
shall be subject to penalties for any violation of this section. Whenever the
Fire Chief, or his or her duly authorized agent, has reason to believe there
has been or there exists a violation of this subchapter, he or she shall give
written notice of such violation to the person failing to comply, and order
said person to take corrective measures within 30 days from the date of the
notification. If such person fails to comply with the duly issued order, the
Fire Chief, or his or her agent, shall initiate necessary actions to terminate
the violation through criminal or civil measures. Any violation of this
subchapter shall constitute a class four misdemeanor. Subsequent to the 30-day
period following notification of violation, each day of violation shall
constitute a separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 19.01.01)
§ 150.26 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall be applicable in all areas of the
city.
(Prior Code, § 19.02.01)
§ 150.27 INTERPRETATION.
   Interpretation of what may not be clear in this subchapter shall be
according to the intent of the subchapter and the city’s comprehensive plan.
(Prior Code, § 19.03.01)
CHAPTER 151: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Title
   
151.002   Policy
   
151.003   Purpose
   
151.004   Authority
   
151.005   Public purpose
   
151.006   Jurisdiction
   
151.007   Relation to other laws
   
151.008   Definitions
Administration
   
151.020   Administration, enforcement and interpretation
   
151.021   Reservation and repeals
   
151.022   Amendments
   
151.023   Variances, exceptions and waiver of conditions
   
151.024   Expiration and extension
   
151.025   Voided application
   
151.026   Recording of plat
   
151.027   Revision of plat after approval
   
151.028   Fees
   
151.029   Appeal
Subdivision Application Procedures and Approval Process
   
151.040   Purpose
   
151.041   General procedure
   
151.042   Outline of conditions for minor subdivision
   
151.043   Administrative procedure and approval for minor subdivision
   
151.044   Submission requirements for minor subdivision
   
151.045   Large lot divisions
   
151.046   Submission requirements for large lot division
   
151.047   Standards for large lot divisions
   
151.048   Combining entire existing tax parcels, replat, subdivision vacancies,
plat of streets, common open spaces and easements for public utilities
   
151.049   Transfer of property between adjoining owners
   
151.050   Outline of conditions for major subdivisions
   
151.051   Pre-application conference and sketch plan
   
151.052   Submission requirements
   
151.053   Preliminary plan
   
151.054   Preliminary plan form
   
151.055   Preliminary plan content
   
151.056   Additional information for the preliminary plan
   
151.057   Public hearing
   
151.058   Filing
   
151.059   Review and approval of preliminary plans
   
151.060   Preliminary plan expiration
   
151.061   Preliminary plan recall
   
151.062   Submission to State Department of Transportation
   
151.063   Final plat procedures
   
151.064   Final plat form
   
151.065   Final plat contents
   
151.066   Additional information for final plat
   
151.067   Final plat filing
   
151.068   City Planning Commission action
   
151.069   Public improvements
   
151.070   Final plat expiration
   
151.071   Signing, recordation and transmittal of copies of final plat
   
151.072   Final plat amendments
Design and Construction Standards
   
151.085   General purpose
   
151.086   Suitability of land
   
151.087   Conformance to applicable rules and regulations
   
151.088   Subdivision and site design
   
151.089   Blocks
   
151.090   Lot improvements
   
151.091   Easements
   
151.092   Standards for nonresidential subdivisions
Street Design and Construction Standards
   
151.105   General
   
151.106   Conformity to development plans and zoning
   
151.107   Official thoroughfare design standards
   
151.108   Street names
   
151.109   Street and circulation system designs
   
151.110   Street vacation
   
151.111   Rights-of-way
   
151.112   Horizontal alignment
   
151.113   Vertical alignment
   
151.114   Special street types
   
151.115   Street design standards for all collector streets
   
151.116   Street design standards for local streets
   
151.117   Intersection design standards
   
151.118   Streets for commercial subdivisions
   
151.119   Streets for industrial subdivisions
   
151.120   Driveways
   
151.121   Off-street parking
   
151.122   Sidewalks and graded areas
   
151.123   Street and walkway lighting
   
151.124   Monuments, markers and pins
   
151.125   Culverts and bridges
   
151.126   Street improvements
   
151.127   Street width
   
151.128   Street sub-grade
   
151.129   Street base course
   
151.130   Street surface course
   
151.131   Portland cement concrete pavement
   
151.132   Full-depth asphalt pavement
   
151.133   Street curbs and gutters
   
151.134   Open ditches and slopes
   
151.135   Street construction standards
Utilities Design and Construction Standards
   
151.150   General
   
151.151   Water supply
   
151.152   Fire protection
   
151.153   Sanitary sewers
   
151.154   Drainage and storm sewers
   
151.155   Electric, gas and telephone improvements
   
151.156   Over-size and off-site improvements
Environmental and Landscaping Design and Construction Standards
   
151.170   Purpose
   
151.171   Public sites, open space and recreation
   
151.172   Flood areas and storm drainage ditches
   
151.173   Soil erosion requirements
   
151.174   Landscape plan
   
151.175   Site protection and general planting requirements
   
151.176   Shade trees
   
151.177   Buffering
   
151.178   Maintenance
   
151.179   Parking lots landscaping
   
151.180   Paving materials
   
151.181   Walls and fences
   
151.182   Street furniture
   
151.183   Lighting
Requirements for Construction of Improvements
   
151.195   Improvements and cost estimation information
   
151.196   Performance guarantee for installation and maintenance of
improvements
   
151.197   Temporary improvements
   
151.198   Extension of time
   
151.199   Failure to complete improvements
   
151.200   Progressive installation
   
151.201   Deferral or waiver of required improvements
   
151.202   Inspection of improvements
   
151.203   Acceptance of streets, storm drainage, sanitary sewer and water
distribution improvements for use and maintenance by the public
Planned Unit Developments
   
151.215   General statement
   
151.216   Purpose of planned unit development
   
151.217   Uses permitted
   
151.218   General requirements
   
151.219   Open space
   
151.220   Management of common property
   
151.221   Open space improvement guarantee
   
151.222   Conformity to existing street and thoroughfare plan
   
151.223   Public streets
   
151.224   Private streets
   
151.225   Staging of residential planned unit development
Hillside Regulations
   
151.240   General
   
151.241   Determination for average slope
   
151.242   Minimum lot requirements for single-family homes
   
151.243   Grading plans and controls
   
151.244   Cuts and fills
   
151.245   Compaction of fill
   
151.246   Retaining walls
   
151.247   Minimum hillside requirements
   
151.248   Street alignment
   
151.249   Driveways
Required Statements
   
151.260   Required statements
   
151.261   Deed reference
   
151.262   Certificate of ownership
   
151.263   Owner’s consent and dedication
   
151.264   Certificate of notary public
   
151.265   Certificate of surveyor
   
151.266   City Planning Commission approval
   
151.267   County Health Department
   
151.268   County Engineer
   
151.269   City Council approval
   
151.270   County Auditor’s transfer
   
151.271   County Recorder
   
151.272   Acceptance of public improvements for maintenance
 
   
151.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Schedule of Subdivision and Parcel Transfer Fees
   
Appendix B: Application for Minor Subdivision and Large Lot Division Regulated
by R.C. §§ 711.131 and 711.133
   
Appendix C: Application for Major Subdivision Approval Regulated by R.C.
Chapter 711
   
Appendix D: Application for Subdivision Variance
   
Appendix E: Preliminary Plan Checklist
   
Appendix F: Final Plat Checklist
   
Appendix G: Subdivision Environmental Review Checklist
PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 TITLE.
   These rules, guidelines and standards adopted by the City Council
hereinafter referred to as “the Council” shall be officially known as the
“Subdivision Regulations of the City of Nelsonville, Athens County, Ohio”, and
shall hereinafter be referred to as “this chapter”.
(Prior Code, § 23.01.01)
§ 151.002 POLICY.
   (A)   It is declared to be the policy of the city to consider the
subdivision of land and its subsequent development as subject to the control of
the city and administered by the City Planning Commission, hereinafter referred
to as “the Commission”, pursuant to the officially adopted comprehensive plan
of the city hereinafter referred to as “the Plan” for orderly, planned,
efficient and economical development.
   (B)   Land to be divided shall be of such character that it can be used
safely for building purposes, and shall not be subdivided until adequate
facilities and improvements such as drainage, water, sewerage and public open
space are provided or, a performance bond or guarantee is filed to assure that
the required improvements will be made by the sub-divider.
   (C)   The existing and proposed public improvements shall conform with and
be related to the proposals shown in the comprehensive plan, capital
improvement program and development programs of the city, and it is intended
that these regulations shall supplement and facilitate the enforcement of the
provisions and standards contained in building, housing, zoning and property
maintenance codes, the Plan and the capital improvement program of the city.
(Prior Code, § 23.01.02)
§ 151.003 PURPOSE.
   (A)   These regulations are adopted as minimum requirements for the
regulation and control of land subdivision within the city and within three
miles of the corporate limits in accordance with R.C. § 711.09.
   (B)   These regulations are intended to:
      (1)   Establish standards for logical, sound and economical development;
      (2)   To provide for adequate light, air and privacy; to secure safety
from fire, flood and other danger; to prevent population congestion and
overcrowding of the land; to provide orderly expansion and extension of
community services and facilities at minimum cost and maximum convenience;
      (3)   To provide for the proper arrangement of streets and highways in
relation to those existing or planned and to provide for the most beneficial
relationship between use of land, buildings, traffic and pedestrian movements;
      (4)   To improve the quality of life through protection of the total
environment, including the prevention of air, water, light and noise pollution;
the prevention of soil erosion; and the preservation of natural beauty and
topography; and
      (5)   To ensure appropriate surveying of land preparing and recording of
plats and the equitable handling of all subdivision plats by providing uniform
procedures and standards for observance by both the city and land sub-dividers.
(Prior Code, § 23.01.03)
§ 151.004 AUTHORITY.
   R.C. Chapter 711 enables the city and the Commission to adopt regulations
governing plats and subdivisions of land within its jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 23.01.04)
§ 151.005 PUBLIC PURPOSE.
   Regulation of the subdivision of land and the attachment of reasonable
conditions to land subdivision is an exercise of public police power delegated
by the state to the city pursuant to R.C. Chapter 711 and Article XVIII, § 3 of
the state constitution. A sub-divider has the duty of compliance with
reasonable conditions laid down by the city for design, dedication, improvement
and restrictive use of the land to conform to the physical and economic
development of the city and the health, safety and general welfare of the
future lot owners of the subdivision and of the city generally.
(Prior Code, § 23.01.05)
§ 151.006 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   These regulations shall be applicable to all subdivisions of land
located within the incorporated area of city and within three miles of the
corporate limits in accordance with R.C. § 711.09.
   (B)   Whenever the city has adopted a major thoroughfare, parks and public
open space plan for the territory within the city limits and for the territory
within three miles of the city, or any portion thereof, and has adopted
subdivision regulations shall exercise extraterritorial jurisdiction for a
distance of up to three miles from its corporate limits if county or township
zoning is not in effect within the area as provided in R.C. § 711.09. The
Commission may receive advice from the County Regional Planning Commission,
hereinafter referred to as “the ACRPC”, or the Hocking County Regional Planning
Commission, hereinafter referred to as “the HCRPC”, upon all subdivision plats
located within three miles of the corporate limits.
   (C)   The city and the ACRPC or HCRPC may agree, in writing, that the
approval of the plat by the city, as provided in R.C. § 711.09, shall be
conditioned upon receiving advice from or approval by the appropriate Regional
Planning Commission.
   (D)   The city may cooperate with the ACRPC or the HCRPC in the review of
subdivision plats occurring on lands adjoining the corporation line of the city
or within a reasonable distance of same. The city may, as a condition for such
cooperation, and in order to carry out these regulations more effectively, seek
an agreement with the ACRPC or the HCRPC. The terms of the agreement may permit
joint review by the city, the ACRPC or the HCRPC of subdivisions occurring next
to or within its corporate limits.
   (E)   Regional and Municipal Planning Commissions with subdivision approval
authority will have to reach agreement on review of lands, proposed for
subdivision, which lie partially within and partially outside of the three mile
limit area.
(Prior Code, § 23.01.06)
§ 151.007 RELATION TO OTHER LAWS.
   (A)   The provision of these regulations shall supplement the laws of the
state, other resolutions adopted by the City Council or the rules and
regulations promulgated by authority of such law or resolution relating to the
purpose and scope of these regulations.
   (B)   No subdivision plat shall be approved for recording until the
requirements of these regulations have been met and certification thereof has
been endorsed upon the plat by the appropriate reviewing authorities.
   (C)   Whenever the requirements of these regulations are at variance with
the requirements of other lawfully adopted rules, regulations, ordinances or
resolutions, the most restrictive or that imposing the highest standard shall
govern. These regulations shall be interpreted as minimum requirements.
   (D)   Whenever a county or township or part thereof has adopted a zoning
plan, under R.C. Chapters 303 or 519, all proposed subdivisions shall meet the
requirements of said zoning plan, as well as the provisions of these
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 23.01.07)
§ 151.008 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. See THOROUGHFARE.
   BLOCK. The property abutting one side of a street and lying between the two
nearest intersecting streets, or between the nearest such street and railroad
right-of-way, unsubdivided acreage, river or live stream, or between any of the
foregoing and any other barrier to the continuity of development.
   BLOCK FRONTAGE. Property abutting on one side of a street, and lying between
the two nearest intersecting or intercepting streets, or between the nearest
intersecting or intercepting street and railroad right-of-way, waterway or
other definite barrier.
   BUILDING. A structure designed to be used as a place of occupancy, storage
or shelter.
   BUILDING SITE. A parcel under separate deed or description containing less
than five acres, having road frontage, and, in the opinion of the City Planning
Commission, having attributes whereby a residence or business could be feasibly
constructed.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM. A plan for expenditures of funds for making
improvements to local infrastructure. The plan includes a project list, cost
estimates, construction schedule and financing methods.
   CITY. Where used, shall mean the City of Nelsonville adopting these
regulations and its legal entities.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN OR COMPREHENSIVE DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A plan, or any portion
thereof, adopted by the City Planning Commission and the City Council, showing
the general location and extent of present and proposed physical facilities,
including housing, industrial and commercial uses; major streets; parks;
schools; and other community facilities. This plan establishes the goals,
objectives and policies of the community.
   CONDOMINIUM. The land, together with all buildings, improvements and
structures thereon; all easements, rights and appurtenances belonging thereto;
and all articles of personal property which have been submitted to the
provisions of R.C. Chapter 5311 and which is subject to said R.C. Chapter 5311.
   CORNER LOT. See LOT TYPES.
   COVENANT. A written promise or pledge.
   CUL-DE-SAC. See THOROUGHFARE.
   CULVERT. A transverse drain that channels under a bridge, street or
driveway.
   DEAD-END STREET. See THOROUGHFARE.
   DENSITY. A unit of measurement; the number of dwelling units per acre of
land.
      (1)   GROSS DENSITY. The number of dwelling units per acre of the total
land to be developed.
      (2)   NET DENSITY. The number of dwelling units per acre of land when the
acreage involved includes only the land devoted to residential uses.
      (3)   DENSITY, LOW RESIDENTIAL. Land to be utilized for residential
purposes, including public housing, and industrialized units, which does not
exceed two dwelling units per gross acre.
      (4)   DENSITY, MEDIUM-LOW RESIDENTIAL. Land to be utilized for
residential purposes, including public housing and industrialized units, which
does not exceed four dwelling units per gross acre. For the purpose of street
design requirements, the MEDIUM-LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL classification shall be
considered as medium density.
      (5)   DENSITY, MEDIUM RESIDENTIAL. Land to be utilized for residential
purposes, including public housing and industrialized units, which does not
exceed eight dwelling units per gross acre.
      (6)   DENSITY, MEDIUM-HIGH RESIDENTIAL. Land to be utilized for
residential purposes, including public housing and industrialized units, which
does not exceed 16 dwelling units per gross acre. For the purposes of street
design requirements, the medium-high density residential classification shall
be considered as high density.
      (7)   DENSITY, HIGH RESIDENTIAL. Land to be utilized for residential
purposes, including public housing and industrialized units, which does not
exceed 32 dwelling units per gross acre.
   DEVELOP. To make a development; also to do any grading or filling of land,
whether undeveloped or already subdivided, so as to change the drainage or the
flow of water, or to do any work upon the land that is capable of serving as a
subdivision or development of building sites in the future.
   DEVELOPER. Any individual, sub-divider, firm, association, syndicate,
partnership, corporation, trust or any other legal entity commencing
proceedings under these regulations to effect a subdivision of land hereunder
for himself or herself or for another.
   DRIPLINE. An imaginary curved line on the ground that is vertically below
the outermost limit of leaves or needles on trees and shrubs.
   DRIVEWAY. A vehicular travelway used to provide access from a street to
dwelling units or commercial or industrial activities. DRIVEWAYS are designed
for low travel speeds and are often used as, or are integral with, parking
areas for vehicles.
   DWELLING UNIT. Space within a building comprising living, dining, sleeping
and storage rooms as well as space and equipment for cooking, bathing and
toilet facilities, all used by only one family and its household employees.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner of the use of a strip of land by the
public, a corporation or other persons for specified purposes.
   ENGINEER. Any person registered to practice professional engineering by the
State Board of Registration, as specified in R.C. § 4733.14.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY. The Ohio Environmental Protection Agency
(O.E.P.A.).
   ENVIRONMENTALLY SENSITIVE AREA. An area within a subdivision’s borders that
possesses unique environmental characteristics that may be destroyed if
disturbed by construction activity. Examples are wetland areas or locations
containing rare or endangered flora or fauna.
   EROSION. The wearing away of the earth’s soil surface by water, wind,
gravity or any other natural process.
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FINAL PLAT. A revised version of the preliminary plan showing exact
locations of lot lines, rights-of-way, easements and dedicated areas. The FINAL
PLAT is recorded in the office of the County Recorder.
   FLOOD. An overflowing of water from watercourses onto land which is normally
dry.
   FLOOD, 1% CHANCE/100-YEAR. The temporary inundation of normally dry land
areas by a flood that is likely to occur once every 100 years (i.e., that has a
1% chance of occurring each year, although the flood may occur in any year).
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to be inundated by water from the base
flood. The term refers to that area designated as subject to flooding from the
base flood (1% chance/100-year flood) on the “flood insurance rate map” (FIRM)
prepared by F.E.M.A.
   GRADE. The amount of rise or descent of a sloping land surface, usually
measured as a percent where the numbered percent represents the amount of
vertical rise or fall, in feet, for every 100 feet horizontally. For example, a
one-foot vertical rise over 100 horizontal feet represents a 1% slope.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The City-County Health District of Athens or Hocking
County, whichever has jurisdiction.
   HIGHWAY DIRECTOR. The Director of the Department of Transportation.
   HISTORICAL SITE. Structures and/or premises having historical or cultural
significance, including, but not limited to, structures and districts
recognized in 1996 by the National Registry of Historic Places District
#96000672.
   IMPROVEMENTS. Street pavement or resurfacing, curbs, gutters, sidewalks,
water lines, sewer lines, storm drains, street lights, flood control for
drainage facilities, utility lines, landscaping and other related matters
normally associated with the development of raw land into building sites.
   LAND CONTRACT. A legal agreement between a landowner and another person or
persons interested in purchasing real property owned by the landowner, wherein
the landowner agrees to receive regular payments, at specified intervals for a
specified period of time, from the purchaser and at the end of the specified
time period agrees to transfer ownership of the property to the purchaser.
   LETTER OF CREDIT. A written statement from a bank or loan company, written
against the good standing of a sub-divider, guaranteeing necessary funds, the
amount to equal a professional engineer’s cost estimate for subdivision
improvements, to complete such improvements should the sub-divider fail to
complete them within the timeframe and conditions as specified in the
subdivision approval agreements. (See also PERFORMANCE BOND or SURETY BOND.)
   LIGHT POLLUTION. Exterior light that goes beyond the area or object that is
intended to be illuminated.
   LOCATION MAP. See VICINITY MAP.
   LOT.
      (1)   For purposes of these regulations, a LOT is a parcel of land that
is:
         (a)   A single lot of record;
         (b)   A portion of a lot of record; and
         (c)   A combination of complete lots of record, of complete lots of
record and portions of lots of record or of portions of lots of record.
      (2)   Includes the words PLOT or PARCEL.
   LOT AREA. The area of a lot computed exclusive of any portion of the right
(s)-of-way of any public or private street.
   LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lines of
a lot.
   LOT FRONTAGE. The front of a lot shall be constructed to be the portion
nearest the street. For the purpose of determining yard requirements on corner
lots and through lots, all sides of a lot adjacent to streets shall be
considered FRONTAGE, and yards shall be provided as indicated under the
definition for YARDS in this section.
   LOT MEASUREMENTS. A lot shall be measured as follows:
      (1)   Depth of a lot shall be considered to be the distance between the
mid-points of straight lines connecting the foremost points of the side lot
lines in front and the rearmost points of the side lot lines in the rear; and
      (2)   Width of a lot shall be considered to be the distance between
straight lines connecting front and rear lot lines at each side of the lot,
measured at the building setback line; provided, however, that the width
between side lot lines at their foremost points (where they intersect with the
street line) shall not be less than 80% of the required lot width.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision recorded in the office
of the County Recorder, or a lot or parcel described by metes and bounds, the
description of which has been so recorded.
   LOT TYPES. Terminology used in these regulations with reference to corner
lots, interior lots and through lots is as follows:
      (1)   CORNER LOT. A lot located at the intersection of two or more
streets. A lot abutting on a curved street or streets shall be considered a
CORNER LOT if straight lines drawn from the foremost points of the side lot
lines to the foremost point of the lot meet at an interior angle of less than
135 degrees.
      (2)   FLAG LOT. A lot whose only frontage on a public street is through a
narrow strip of land which is generally wide enough to accommodate a driveway,
but too narrow to accommodate any structures. The narrow strip of land is
referred to as the PANHANDLE.
      (3)   INTERIOR LOT. A lot other than a corner lot with only one frontage
on a street.
      (4)   REVERSED FRONTAGE LOT. A lot on which frontage is at right angles
to the general pattern in the area. A REVERSED FRONTAGE LOT may also be a
corner lot.
      (5)   THROUGH LOT. A lot other than a corner lot with frontage on more
than one street. THROUGH LOTS abutting two streets may be referred to as double
frontage lots.
   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between side lot lines measured along the
required building setback line. When the street line is curved, the measurement
shall be made on the arc, on or parallel to the curve of the street line.
   MAINTENANCE BOND. An agreement by a sub-divider or sub-divider with the city
guaranteeing the maintenance of physical improvements for a period of two years
from the release of the performance bond.
   MINOR SUBDIVISION. A division of a parcel of land that does not require a
plat to be approved by a planning authority, according to R.C. § 711.131, known
also as a LOT SPLIT or PARCEL SPLIT.
   MONUMENTS. Iron bases or iron pipes which will be set at all lot or parcel
corners within the subdivision.
   OFFICIAL MAP. The map established by the City Planning Commission showing
the streets, highways and parks theretofore laid out, adopted and established
by law and any amendments thereto adopted by the City Council and the City
Planning Commission or additions thereto resulting from the approval of
subdivision plats by the City Manager and the subsequent filing of such
approved plans.
   OPEN SPACE. An area open to the sky which may be on the same lot with a
building. The area may include, along with the natural environmental features,
swimming pools, tennis courts and any other recreational facilities that the
City Planning Commission deems permissive. Streets, structures for habitation
and the like shall not be included.
   OUT LOT. Property shown on a subdivision plat outside of the boundaries of
the land which is to be developed and which is to be excluded from the
development of the subdivision.
   OWNER. Any individual, firm, association, syndicate, co-partnership,
corporation, trust or any other legal entity having sufficient proprietary
interest in the land sought to be subdivided to commence and maintain
proceedings to subdivide the same under this chapter.
   PAD. A building site prepared by artificial means, including, but not
limited to, grading, excavation or filling, or any combination thereof.
   PARCEL. Any piece of land described by a current deed.
   PARKING SPACE, OFF-STREET. For the purpose of these regulations, an OFF-
STREET PARKING SPACE shall consist of an area adequate for parking an
automobile with room for opening doors on both sides, together with properly
related access to a public street or alley and maneuvering room, but shall be
located totally outside of any street or alley right-of-way.
   PERFORMANCE BOND or SURETY BOND. An agreement by a sub-divider with the city
for the amount of the estimated construction cost (as approved by City Council
and the City Manager) guaranteeing the completion of physical improvements
according to plans and specifications within the time prescribed by the sub-
divider’s agreement. (See also LETTER OF CREDIT.)
   PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE. Any security that may be accepted by a municipality
as a guarantee that the improvements required as part of an application for
development that are satisfactorily completed.
   PERSON. An individual, trustee, executor, other fiduciary, corporation,
firm, partnership, association, organization, trust, company, corporation or
other entity acting as a unit.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   An area of land in which a variety of housing types and/or related
commercial and industrial facilities are accommodated in a pre-planned
environment under more flexible standards, such as lot size and setbacks, than
those restrictions that would normally apply under these regulations.
      (2)   The procedure for approval of such development contains
requirements in addition to those of the standard subdivision, such as building
design principles and landscaping plans.
   PLAT. The map, drawing or chart on which the sub-divider’s subdivision is
presented to the City Planning Commission for approval, and the County Recorder
for recording.
   PRELIMINARY PLAN. The initial proposal, including both narrative and site
design information, intended to provide the City Planning Commission with an
understanding of the manner in which the site in question is to be developed.
   PUBLIC WAY. An alley, avenue, boulevard, bridge, channel, ditch, easement,
expressway, freeway, highway, land, parkway, right-of-way, road, sidewalk,
street, subway, tunnel, viaduct, walk or other ways in which the general public
entity have a right, or which are dedicated, whether improved or not. (See also
RIGHT-OF-WAY.)
   REPLAT. A subdivision or plat, the site of which has heretofore been platted
or subdivided with lots or parcels of land. It may include all or any part of a
previous subdivision or plat.
   RESERVE STRIP. An area of land adjacent to a public right-of-way retained in
ownership by the sub-divider or sub-divider for the purpose of denying access
to the adjacent land.
   RESIDUAL PARCEL. The property remaining in the original deed description
after a more recently surveyed parcel has been separated from the original deed
description.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land taken or dedicated for use as a public way. In
addition to the roadway, it normally incorporates the curbs, lawn strips,
sidewalks, lighting and drainage facilities, and may include special features
(required by the topography of treatment) such as grade separation, landscaped
areas, viaducts and bridges. (See also PUBLIC WAY.)
   SETBACK LINE. A line established by the subdivision regulations generally
parallel with and measured from the lot line, defining the limits of a yard in
which no building or structure, other than an accessory building, may be
located above ground.
   SEWERS, CENTRAL OR GROUP. An approved sewage disposal system which provides
a collection network and disposal system and central sewage treatment facility
for a single development, community or region.
   SEWERS, ON-SITE. A septic tank or similar installation on an individual lot
which utilizes an aerobic bacteriological process, or an equally satisfactory
process, for the elimination of sewage, and provides for the proper and safe
disposal of the effluent, subject to the approval of health and sanitation
officials having jurisdiction.
   SHALL is a mandatory requirement, the word MAY is a permissive requirement
and the word SHOULD is a preferred requirement.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the road right-of-way outside the roadway, which is
improved for the use of pedestrian traffic. (See also WALKWAY.)
   SKETCH PLAN. An informal drawing which shows how a sub-divider proposes to
subdivide a property and which gives sufficient site information for the City
Planning Commission representatives to offer suggestions for site development.
   SLIPPAGE POTENTIAL. The potential which land has to move, under the force of
gravity, should it be disturbed during construction activity.
   STOPPING SIGHT DISTANCE. The distance down a roadway for which a motorist is
able to have unobstructed sight. STOPPING SIGHT DISTANCE is reduced by vertical
and horizontal road curvature, fixed objects on the side of the road and
overhanging vegetation.
   SUB-DIVIDER. Any individual, sub-divider, firm, association, syndicate,
partnership, corporation, trust or any other legal entity commencing
proceedings under these regulations to affect a subdivision of land hereunder
for himself or herself or for another.
   SUBDIVISION.
      (1)   The division of any parcel of land shown as a unit or as contiguous
units on the last preceding general tax list and duplicate of real and public
utility property, into two or more parcels, sites or lots, any one of which is
less than five acres, for the purpose, whether immediate or future of transfer
of ownership; provided, however, that the following are exempt:
         (a)   A division or partition of land into parcels of more than five
acres not involving any new streets or easements of access;
         (b)   The sale or exchange of parcels between adjoining lot owners,
where such sale or exchange of parcels between adjoining lot owners, where such
sale or exchange does not create additional building sites; and
         (c)   As the planning authority has adopted a rule in accordance with
R.C. § 711.133 that exempts from division (B)(1) of that section, any parcel of
land that is more than four acres and less than 20 acres.
      (2)   The improvement of one or more parcels of land for residential,
commercial or industrial structures or groups of structures involving the
division or allocation of land for the opening, widening or extension of any
street or streets except private streets serving industrial structures; the
division or allocation of land as open spaces for common use by owners,
occupants or lease holders, or as easements for the extension and maintenance
of public sewer, water, storm drainage or other public facilities. (See also
MINOR SUBDIVISION.)
   SURVEYOR. Any person registered to practice surveying by the State Board of
Registration, as specified in R.C. § 4733.02.
   TRACT. The term is used interchangeably with the term LOT, particularly in
the context of subdivisions, where one “tract” is subdivided into several
“lots”.
   TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTEE. A committee of representatives of the City
Manager’s office, the applicable County Health Department, the City Planning
Commission and the City Council who shall meet with sub-dividers or property
owners proposing a major subdivision, a commercial or industrial subdivision or
a minor subdivision on which a technical review member requires additional
information. The TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTEE shall offer advice and assistance
to the City Planning Commission.
   TERRAIN CLASSIFICATION. Terrain within the entire area of the preliminary
plat is classified as level, rolling, hilly or hillside for street design
purposes. The classifications are as follows:
      (1)   HILLSIDE. Land which has a cross slope range of more than 15%;
      (2)   HILLY. Land which has a cross slope range of more than 8% but not
more than 15%;
      (3)   LEVEL. Land which has a cross slope range of 4% or less; and
      (4)   ROLLING. Land which has a cross slope range of more than 4% but not
more than 8%;
   THOROUGHFARE, STREET or ROAD. The full width between property lines bounding
every dedicated travelway, with a part thereof to be used for vehicular traffic
and designated as follows:
      (1)   ALLEY. A minor street used primarily for vehicular service access
to the back or side of properties abutting on another street. Design speed is
ten mph;
      (2)   ARTERIAL STREET. A general term denoting a highway primarily for
through traffic, carrying heavy loads and large volume of traffic, usually on a
continuous route. Design speed is generally 55 mph. ARTERIAL STREETS may be
differentiated as major arterials or minor arterials;
      (3)   COLLECTOR STREET. A thoroughfare, whether within a residential,
industrial, commercial or other type of development, which primarily carries
traffic from local streets to arterial streets, including the principal
entrance and circulation routes within residential subdivisions. Design speed
is generally 35 mph; and
      (4)   CUL-DE-SAC. A local street of relatively short length with one end
open to traffic and the other end terminating in a vehicular turnaround. Design
speed is generally 25 mph.
      (5)   DEAD-END STREET. A street temporarily having only one outlet for
vehicular traffic and intended to be extended or continued in the future.
      (6)   LOCAL STREET. A street primarily for providing access to
residential, commercial or other abutting property. Design speed is generally
25 mph.
      (7)   LOOP STREET. A type of local street each end of which terminated at
an intersection with the same arterial or collector street, and whose principal
radius points of the 180 degree system of turns are not more than 3,000 feet
from said arterial or collector street, nor normally more than 600 feet from
each other.
      (8)   MARGINAL ACCESS STREET. A local or collector street, parallel and
adjacent to an arterial or collector street, providing access to abutting
properties and protection from arterial or collector streets. (Also called
FRONTAGE STREET.)
   THROUGH LOT. See LOT TYPES.
   USED or OCCUPIED. Include the words INTENDED, DESIGNED or ARRANGED TO BE
USED OR OCCUPIED.
   VARIANCE. A modification of the strict terms of the relevant regulations
where such modification will not be contrary to the public interest and where
owing to conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the action
of the applicant, a literal enforcement of the regulations would result in
unnecessary and undue hardship.
   VICINITY MAP. A drawing located on the plat which sets forth, by dimensions
or other means, the relationship of the proposed subdivision or use to other
nearby developments or landmarks and community facilities and services within
the city in order to better locate and orient the area in question.
   WATERSHED. The drainage basin in which the subdivision drains or that land
whose drainage is affected by the subdivision.
   WETLAND. An area of land, as defined by the federal definition at the time
of preliminary plan submission, inundated by water for a portion of each year
resulting in the land possessing unique soil and vegetative types.
   YARD. A required open space other than a court unoccupied and unobstructed
by any structure from three feet above the general ground level of the graded
lot upward; provided accessories, ornaments and furniture may be permitted in
any YARD, subject to height limitations and requirements limiting obstructions
of visibility.
      (1)   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending between side lot lines across the
front of a lot and from the front lot line to the front of the principal
building.
      (2)   YARD, REAR. A yard extending between side lot lines across the rear
of a lot and from the rear lot line to the rear of the principal building.
      (3)   YARD, SIDE. A yard extending from the principal building to the
side lot line on both sides of the principal building between the lines
establishing the front and rear yards.
   ZONING OFFICER. Shall mean the Zoning Officer of the City of Nelsonville.
(Prior Code, § 23.12)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.020 ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT AND INTERPRETATION.
   These regulations shall be administered by the City Planning Commission. The
Planning Commission, assisted by other government agencies, legal counsel and
through other advice it may solicit, shall administer these regulations.
Discretionary, conflicting or disputed aspects of these regulations shall be
interpreted by the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 23.02.01)
§ 151.021 RESERVATION AND REPEALS.
   Upon adoption of these regulations, according to the law, any ordinance
previously approved and regulating the subdivision of land within the city are
hereby repealed.
(Prior Code, § 23.02.02)
§ 151.022 AMENDMENTS.
   The Planning Commission may recommend changes to these regulations. Such
changes will only take effect after public hearings and approval by the City
Council, as directed in the Ohio Revised Code.
(Prior Code, § 23.02.03)
§ 151.023 VARIANCES, EXCEPTIONS AND WAIVER OF CONDITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Where, due to exceptional topographic or other physical
conditions, the Planning Commission finds that extraordinary and unnecessary
hardship may result from strict application of these regulations, or the
purpose of these regulations may be served to a greater extent by an
alternative proposal, it may recommend to the City Council approval of
variances, exceptions and waivers of conditions; provided that they will not be
detrimental to the public health, safety or welfare or injurious to other
properties.
      (2)   Such variances shall not have the effect of nullifying the intent
and purpose of these regulations, the comprehensive plan or the zoning
resolution. In recommending variances to the City Council, the Planning
Commission may require such conditions as will, in its judgment, secure
substantially the objective of the standards or requirements so varied or
modified.
   (B)   An application for relief may be denied if an owner requests it merely
for his or her own convenience, such as when the land is not usable due to
error or poor assumptions on the owner’s part, or when the only supporting
evidence is that compliance would add to development costs.
(Prior Code, § 23.02.04)
§ 151.024 EXPIRATION AND EXTENSION.
   (A)   Failure to comply with stated time periods of these regulations shall
result in the expiration of the application and associated Planning Commission
and City Council approvals. Before expiration, the sub-divider may provide a
letter stating why these time periods cannot be met in requesting their
extension.
   (B)   The sub-divider is solely responsible for knowing expiration dates and
meeting or extending them in accordance with these regulations. Neither the
Planning Commission nor the City Council shall have the duty, obligation or
responsibility to remind or notify sub-dividers of approaching expiration
dates.
(Prior Code, § 23.02.05)
§ 151.025 VOIDED APPLICATION.
   An application shall become void and have no rights, standing or status
under these regulations, upon expiration, withdrawal or disapproval.
(Prior Code, § 23.02.06)
§ 151.026 RECORDING OF PLAT.
   No plat of any subdivision shall be recorded by the applicable County
Recorder or have any validity until said plat has received a final approval in
the manner prescribed in these regulations.
(Prior Code, § 23.02.07)
§ 151.027 REVISION OF PLAT AFTER APPROVAL.
   No change, modification or revision shall be made in any plat of a
subdivision after approval has been given by the City Council, and endorsed, in
writing, on the plat, unless said plat is first resubmitted for review and
approval by the Planning Commission and the City Council, or its designated
representative.
(Prior Code, § 23.02.08)
§ 151.028 FEES.
   (A)   The City Council shall establish, by these regulations or by separate
ordinance, a schedule of fees, charges, expenses and collection procedures for
administration of these regulations. The schedule of fees shall be posted in
the office of the City Manager.
   (B)   Until all applicable fees, charges and expenses have been paid in
full, no action shall be taken on any application or appeal. The sub-divider
shall be solely responsible for submittal of the plat and payment of fees to
the local agency having jurisdiction regarding review and/or approval of
proposed improvements, including water and sanitary sewage facilities.
Inspection fees may be assessed by the city for any construction inspections
performed by city personnel.
(Prior Code, § 23.02.09)
§ 151.029 APPEAL.
   Any person who believes he or she has been aggrieved by these regulations or
the actions of the Planning Commission has all rights to appeal to the City
Council or to appeal as set forth in R.C. Chapter 711 or any other applicable
section of the Ohio Revised Code.
(Prior Code, § 23.02.11)
SUBDIVISION APPLICATION PROCEDURES AND APPROVAL PROCESS
§ 151.040 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish the procedure for review and
approval of subdivisions, as authorized under R.C. Chapter 711. The procedure
is intended to provide orderly and expeditious processing of such applications.
(Prior Code, § 23.03.01)
§ 151.041 GENERAL PROCEDURE.
   Before any land is subdivided, the owner of the property, or his or her
authorized agent, shall apply for and secure approval of the proposed
subdivision in accordance with the following procedures.
   (A)   Minor subdivision, lot split or parcel split. A minor subdivision is
one which meets the criteria listed in §
151.042. These shall be handled by the Planning Commission, or its designated
representative, and require a survey drawing, a deed with a legal description
and any fees that may be in effect. It is recommended that prior to any survey
work, a site visit be conducted with the Planning Commission, or its
representative, in order to ensure compatibility with these regulations.
   (B)   Major subdivision or platted subdivision. These divisions of land
involve approval actions by the Planning Commission before plat signature by
its representative. The approval process for a major subdivision includes three
principal steps: an optional sketch plan, an optional preliminary plan and a
final plat.
(Prior Code, § 23.03.02)
§ 151.042 OUTLINE OF CONDITIONS FOR MINOR SUBDIVISION.
   Approval of a minor subdivision may be granted by the Planning Commission,
or its designated representative, if the proposed subdivision of the parcel of
land meets all of the following conditions.
   (A)   The proposed division of a parcel of land involves no more than five
tracts, after the original parcel has been completely subdivided (inclusive of
the remainder parcel).
   (B)   The proposed subdivision is along an existing public street, and
involves no opening, widening or extension of any street or road or public
utility.
   (C)   The proposed subdivision is not contrary to applicable subdivision or
zoning regulations or, if so, has received any necessary variances.
   (D)   The property has been surveyed and a survey drawing, in the form as
provided in §
151.044, and a legal description of the property is submitted with the
application.
   (E)   The proposed subdivision is approved by the City Water and Sewer
Distribution and Collection Department, appropriate County Health Department or
the State Environmental Protection Agency (for special sanitary districts) for
sanitary sewage disposal, the office of the appropriate County Engineer for
mathematical accuracy of the survey of plat and others as may be applicable.
(Prior Code, § 23.03.03)
§ 151.043 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE AND APPROVAL FOR MINOR SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   A minor subdivision application available at the City Manager’s office
shall be filed by the landowner, or designated representative. A complete
application shall contain a survey drawing as described in §
151.044, a proposed deed with a legal description for each lot being created
that is approved by the county or the Hocking County Engineer for math
accuracy, the fee as set forth in these regulations and a certification of
approval by the Health Department of jurisdiction, and others as may be
applicable.
   (B)   (1)   After the split has been approved by the County Engineer of
jurisdiction and the Health Department, or authority of jurisdiction, the deed
and a copy of the survey drawing shall then be checked by the Commission, or
its representative, for conformity with these regulations.
      (2)   A property inspection may be conducted. The President of the City
Planning Commission, or his or her representative, shall stamp and sign the
deed “approved-minor subdivision, no plat required as per R.C. § 711.131”
within seven working days after submission if the lot in question meets all
requirements as stipulated above.
   (C)   The deed shall then be taken to the County Auditor of jurisdiction for
the transfer of property and then to the County Recorder of jurisdiction where
it will become a legal lot of record. Minor subdivision requests expire if not
recorded within one year of approval by the Planning Commission.
   (D)   Incomplete or deficient proposals shall be disapproved and the sub-
divider notified in writing of reasons for the disapproval.
(Prior Code, § 23.03.04)
§ 151.044 SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR SUBDIVISION.
   The application for minor subdivision shall include the following:
   (A)   The survey shall conform to the minimum standards for boundary surveys
in the state (O.A.C. § 4733-37). Also refer to the County Auditor’s most recent
edition of Requirements for all Instruments of Conveyance in the county;
   (B)   All dimensions shall be shown in feet and hundredths of feet and
presented legibly;
   (C)   Location of monuments and their descriptions;
   (D)   Approximate locations, sizes and types (i.e., commercial, residence or
outbuilding) of all existing buildings;
   (E)   Approximate areas within the 1% chance/100-year floodplain and within
floodways, as determined by mapping provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency, hereinafter referred to as “FEMA”, to the appropriate
participating community in the national flood insurance program, hereinafter
referred to as “the NFIP”; and
   (F)   Approval of the applicable Health Department or sewerage jurisdiction
for centralized or private, on-site sewage disposal systems.
(Prior Code, § 23.03.05)
§ 151.045 LARGE LOT DIVISIONS.
   Pursuant to R.C. § 711.133, if the proposed division of land meets the
following criteria, then it shall be considered a large lot division for the
purposes of these regulations.
   (A)   The proposed division has required road frontage of at least 50 feet
along an existing or previously dedicated public street or other dedicated
right-of-way. In addition, such division shall not involve the opening,
widening, extension or improvement of any existing roadway.
   (B)   The proposed division shall consist of lots more than four acres in
area and not greater than 20 acres in area.
   (C)   Large lot divisions shall not be considered a subdivision and shall be
subject to the rules as cited in §§
151.047 and §
151.048.
(Prior Code, § 23.03.06)
§ 151.046 SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS FOR LARGE LOT DIVISION.
   The items to be submitted for approval of a large lot division shall be the
same as for a minor subdivision as specified in §
151.044.
(Prior Code, § 23.03.07)
§ 151.047 STANDARDS FOR LARGE LOT DIVISIONS.
   A large lot division shall be approved when the division meets the following
standards.
   (A)   The proposed lot, including the remainder of the parent tract, is
consistent with these rules and any applicable rules of authorities of
jurisdiction.
   (B)   The proposed division has been reviewed and approved by the Health
Department or sewerage district of jurisdiction.
   (C)   The proposed division has been reviewed by the applicable County
Engineer, Township Trustees, State Department of Transportation or the City
Manager for access to an existing road, highway or right-of-way.
   (D)   The proposed division and its use are compatible with the applicable
flood damage reduction mapping and regulations.
   (E)   Action on the proposed division shall occur within seven working days
after submission or in a time considered reasonable given the scope or size of
the proposal.
   (F)   Parcels which shall only be used for agricultural or personal
recreational purposes shall be exempt from these regulations and the conveyance
instrument clearly marked: “no approval or plat required as per R.C. § 711.133
for agricultural or personal recreational use only”.
(Prior Code, § 23.03.08)
§ 151.048 COMBINING ENTIRE EXISTING TAX PARCELS, REPLAT, SUBDIVISION VACANCIES,
PLAT OF STREETS, COMMON OPEN SPACES AND EASEMENTS FOR PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   (A)   Combining entire existing tax parcels can be accomplished by the
County Auditor of jurisdiction without Planning Commission involvement if the
existing parcels have the same deed reference, are adjacent to each other, are
not separated by a public roadway and acreage of all parcels is combined into a
single tax parcel.
   (B)   A sub-divider proposing the re-subdivision of a plat previously
recorded by the appropriate County Recorder shall follow the same procedures
required for a major subdivision.
   (C)   Proposals of subdivision abandonment; platting of street openings,
widenings and extensions; platting of open spaces for common use by owners,
occupants or leaseholders; and easements for the extension and maintenance of
public sewer, storm drainage or other public utility shall follow the same
procedures required for a major subdivision.
   (B)   Provisions for the subdivision of land for use by utility companies
shall be considered on the basis of special conditions in each case. Primary
consideration of any proposed use shall be that it is not detrimental to the
public health, safety or welfare.
(Prior Code, § 23.03.09)
§ 151.049 TRANSFER OF PROPERTY BETWEEN ADJOINING OWNERS.
   (A)   Where a transfer of property between adjoining owners results in a
residual parcel which is less than five acres, said residual parcel shall be
subject to the requirements of these regulations, and the transfer of property
shall be approved only if the residual meets these regulations. A property
containing a building site that is transferred to an adjoining owner shall only
be approved if it meets the standards of these regulations. The grantees’ names
on the deed shall match the names on the deed of the adjacent parcel being
enlarged by the transfer. Deeds for combining acreage shall include the
notation: “not to be used as a separate building site or transferred as an
independent parcel without planning commission approval”.
   (B)   If the transfer of property is within a recorded subdivision, it shall
be submitted to the Planning Commission, or its representative, for approval if
it involves the elimination or creation of any subdivision lot as a separate
building tract.
(Prior Code, § 23.03.10)
§ 151.050 OUTLINE OF CONDITIONS FOR MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   A proposal involving any of the following shall be subject to major
subdivision procedures:
   (A)   Creation of more than five lots, any one of which is less than five
acres, including the original tract;
   (B)   Creation, widening or extension of a street or access easement;
   (C)   Division or allocation of land as a utility or drainage easement; and
   (D)   Subdividing platted land to create additional building lots in a
recorded subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 23.03.11)
§ 151.051 PRE-APPLICATION CONFERENCE AND SKETCH PLAN.
   (A)   Prior to preparing a sketch plan, the sub-divider may meet with
Planning Commission representatives, in a pre-application conference, in order
to discuss the procedure for approval of the subdivision plan and to
familiarize the sub-divider with the comprehensive plan, the zoning plan, the
thoroughfare plan, drainage and sewerage requirements, fire protection and the
availability of existing utility services.
   (B)   It is recommended that five copies of a sketch plan be brought to the
pre-application conference.
(Prior Code, § 23.03.12)
§ 151.052 SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   Sketch plans submitted to the Planning Commission, prepared in pen or
pencil, shall be drawn to a convenient scale of not more than 100 feet to an
inch and shall show the following information:
   (A)   Location or vicinity map;
   (B)   Ownership of property and adjacent properties;
   (C)   Existing and proposed public roads and easements (approximate);
   (D)   Existing structures (approximate);
   (E)   North arrow;
   (F)   Outline of areas to be subdivided;
   (G)   Proposed lot lines;
   (H)   Important natural features and drainage ways (approximate); and
   (I)   A written statement about plans for storm drainage, sewage disposal,
water supply, telephone, electric service and other utilities.
(Prior Code, § 23.03.13)
§ 151.053 PRELIMINARY PLAN.
   The sub-divider may submit a preliminary plan for review and approval prior
to submission of a final plat and detailed construction drawings. The
preliminary plan submittal and review is conducted for the sub-divider’s
benefit and, at his or her discretion, its submission does not constitute a
formal subdivision review pursuant to R.C. § 711.10. With the submission of the
preliminary plan, the sub-divider waives any rights to an approval under R.C. §
711.10 until such time as application is made for final subdivision plat review
and is submitted to the Planning Commission for review and approval as detailed
in these regulations.
(Prior Code, § 23.03.14)
§ 151.054 PRELIMINARY PLAN FORM.
   The preliminary plan application shall contain:
   (A)   Complete application form available from the City Manager’s office;
   (B)   Signed variance application form if a variance is requested;
   (C)   The fee set forth in the appendix (application fee will only be
assessed one time); and
   (D)   Five copies of the preliminary plan containing all required
information. The preliminary plan shall be submitted in the following form:
      (1)   On one or more sheets 24 inches by 36 inches or 18 inches by 24
inches in size, clearly and legibly drawn; and
      (2)   The original shall be drawn on mylar material. Copies shall be blue
or black line paper prints.
(Prior Code, § 23.03.15)
§ 151.055 PRELIMINARY PLAN CONTENT.
   The preliminary plan shall contain the following information:
   (A)   Proposed name of the subdivision, location by section, range, township
or other survey;
   (B)   Boundaries and acreage;
   (C)   Name, address and telephone number of the owner, sub-divider,
professional surveyor and professional engineer with appropriate numbers and
seals;
   (D)   Date of survey, scale of the plat, north point, legend and a vicinity
map of a scale not less than 2,000 feet to an inch;
   (E)   Name of adjacent subdivisions, owners of adjoining parcels and
location of common boundary lines, extended to 200 feet beyond the boundary of
the subdivision;
   (F)   Topographic contours, within and adjacent to the plat for a minimum
distance of 200 feet, with intervals no greater than two feet at 5% slope, no
greater than five feet for slopes over 5% and less than or equal to 15% and no
greater than ten feet for slopes greater than 15%;
   (G)   Location, width and names of existing and proposed streets, railroad
rights-of-way, easements, parks, buildings, corporation and township lines,
wooded areas, watercourses, drainage patterns, water bodies and topographic
features within and adjacent to the plat for a minimum distance of 200 feet;
   (H)   Location of floodways and floodplains;
   (I)   A good-faith effort to identify the location of environmentally
sensitive areas;
   (J)   Layout, number, dimensions of each lot and setback lines (a note
listing setback dimensions may be added in lieu of showing setback lines if the
plan will be made more legible);
   (K)   Parcels of land reserved for public use or reserved by covenant for
residents of the subdivision;
   (L)   Potential streets or common access drive layouts for adjacent land
under sub-dividers control intended for future development;
   (M)   Type of water supply and wastewater disposal proposed, approximate
locations and dimensions of all proposed utilities and sewer lines, easements,
drainage tiles, water mains, culverts or other underground utilities within the
tract or adjacent thereto;
   (N)   Known cemeteries, historical or archeological sites; and
   (O)   A schedule outlining the order of development of each section or phase
of the subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 23.03.16)
§ 151.056 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FOR THE PRELIMINARY PLAN.
   The following information does not apply to all projects and may be
requested during the site review or required during review and approval of
applications:
   (A)   Statements of proposed use of lots, giving type and number of dwelling
units and/or type of business or industry;
   (B)   Conceptual plan for commercial and industrial development, showing
proposed parking, loading areas, alleys, pedestrian walkways, streets, points
of vehicular ingress/egress to the development and landscape features;
   (C)   A drawing of all present and proposed grades and facilities for storm
water drainage, in cases where natural drainage is altered, and proposals to
abate erosion and storm water damage;
   (D)   Screening, buffering and/or noise abatement measures;
   (E)   Soil types, derived from the United States Department of Agriculture,
hereinafter referred to “the USDA”, Soil Survey of Athens County, Ohio. For
property located in the county, an interpretive soil report, prepared by the
County Soil and Water Conservation District, hereinafter referred to as “the
ACSWCD” is recommended;
   (F)   Typical cross sections and centerline profiles for each proposed
street and preliminary engineering designs of any new bridges or culverts
proposed in the project; and
   (G)   Other information, studies, items or provisions deemed necessary or
prudent to create buildable sites and to promote public health, safety and
welfare.
(Prior Code, § 23.03.17)
§ 151.057 PUBLIC HEARING.
   The Planning Commission, prior to acting on a preliminary plan of a
subdivision, may hold a public hearing at such time and upon such notice as the
Planning Commission may designate.
(Prior Code, § 23.03.18)
§ 151.058 FILING.
   The preliminary plan shall be considered officially filed after it is
examined by the City Manager, hereinafter referred to as “the City Manager”, or
his or her designee (minor subdivision, lot splits, parcel splits and large lot
divisions) or the Planning Commission (major subdivisions), and is found to be
in full compliance with the formal provisions of these regulations. The sub-
divider shall be notified by mail within five working days from the date that
the City Manager received the preliminary plan, as to whether the plan
submitted is in compliance with these regulations. If the preliminary plan is
in compliance, the notice to the sub-divider shall state the official filing
date that begins the 45-day review period for major subdivisions and the date
and time of a meeting at which the preliminary plan shall be reviewed. If the
preliminary plan is not in compliance, the notice shall provide explanations
for the sub-divider. If the sub-divider is not notified within five working
days, the plan will be considered officially filed. If the preliminary plan is
in compliance, the City Manager, or his or her designee (minor subdivisions,
lot splits, parcel splits and large lot divisions) or the Planning Commission
(major subdivisions), shall schedule a meeting to consider the preliminary
plan.
(Prior Code, § 23.03.19)
§ 151.059 REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PLANS.
   The City Manager shall forward copies of the preliminary plan to such
officials and agencies as may be necessary for the purposes of study and
recommendation. After receipt of reports from such officials and agencies, the
Planning Commission shall determine whether the plan will be approved, approved
with modifications or disapproved. The reasons for disapproval shall be stated
in a letter sent to the sub-divider. The Planning Commission shall act on the
preliminary plan for a major subdivision within 45 working days after filing,
unless such time is extended by agreement with the sub-divider.
(Prior Code, § 23.03.20)
§ 151.060 PRELIMINARY PLAN EXPIRATION.
   The approval of the preliminary plan by the Planning Commission shall be
effective for a maximum period of one year from the date of its approval,
unless an extension of the approval has been granted, in writing, by the
Planning Commission. If the final plat application is not accepted within one
year, the preliminary plan approval shall expire and become void.
(Prior Code, § 23.03.21)
§ 151.061 PRELIMINARY PLAN RECALL.
   (A)   The Planning Commission, or its representative, may recall unplatted
portions of the preliminary plan for consideration, and reapproval,
modification or disapproval.
   (B)   A recall may occur if:
      (1)   Incomplete, inaccurate or fraudulent information influenced
approval;
      (2)   The sub-divider has failed to satisfactorily pursue final platting
or conditions of approval; or
      (3)   Previously unknown or new health, safety or environmental concerns
arise.
   (C)   The sub-divider shall be notified by letter no later than 30 days
before the recall is scheduled for consideration.
(Prior Code, § 23.03.22)
§ 151.062 SUBMISSION TO STATE DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION.
   Any subdivision plan within 300 feet of the centerline of a proposed new
state highway or a state highway for which changes are proposed, or any land
within a radius of 500 feet from the point of intersection of said centerline
with any public road or highway requires that the Commission, or its
representative, give notice by registered or certified mail to the State
Department of Transportation, hereinafter referred to as “ODOT”. If ODOT
notifies the city that it shall proceed to acquire the land needed, the
application shall be refused.
(Prior Code, § 23.03.23)
§ 151.063 FINAL PLAT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Having received approval of the preliminary plan, if applicable, the
sub-divider shall submit a final plat application containing all changes in the
preliminary plan, as required by the Planning Commission. The final plat shall
be prepared by a qualified registered surveyor and the design for construction
of improvements prepared by a professional engineer licensed to practice in the
state.
   (B)   (1)   The final plat shall be considered officially filed after it is
examined by the Planning Commission, or its representative, and is found to be
in full compliance with the formal provisions of these regulations. The sub-
divider shall be notified by mail within five working days from the date that
the Planning Commission received the final plat, as to whether the plat
submitted is in compliance with these regulations. If the final plat is in
compliance, the notice to the sub-divider shall state the official filing date
that begins the 45-day review period and the meeting at which the final plat
shall be reviewed. If the final plat is not in compliance, the notice shall
provide explanations for the sub-divider. If the sub-divider is not notified
within five working days, the plat will be considered officially filed.
      (2)   A complete application shall contain:
         (a)   Complete and signed application form available from the City
Manager’s office with the fee, as set forth in the appendix;
         (b)   Original plat document signed by the sub-divider and lien holder
with notary and seal and the surveyor with seal;
         (c)   Five sets of copies of the final plat and one reproducible
tracing of the plat, construction drawings and specifications and supplementary
or additional information specified herein;
         (d)   Five sets of approved grading, street, storm water management,
waterline and sanitary sewer improvement plans;
         (e)   Professional engineer’s (licensed in the state) certified cost
estimate for all improvements; and
         (f)   A letter from the City Manager stating that all improvements are
built to specification and a maintenance guarantee in an amount of 10% of the
professional engineer’s cost estimate. If improvements are not built, a
performance guarantee that meets the requirements of §
151.196 shall be submitted.
(Prior Code, § 23.03.24)
§ 151.064 FINAL PLAT FORM.
   The final plat shall be submitted in the following form:
   (A)   Drawn at a scale between 100 feet to the inch and ten feet to the
inch, inclusively;
   (B)   Plats shall be on one or more sheets 24 inches by 36 inches or 18
inches by 24 inches in size and shall be clearly and legibly drawn. The
original shall be drawn on reproducible material capable of producing blue or
black line paper prints;
   (C)   No ditto marks or abbreviations shall be used on the final plat and a
legend of all symbols and abbreviations used shall be placed on the plat; and
   (D)   The Planning Commission may also require the final plat to be filed in
a digital or computer format.
(Prior Code, § 23.03.25)
§ 151.065 FINAL PLAT CONTENTS.
   The final plat shall contain the following information:
   (A)   Subdivision name, location by section, range, township or other
accepted survey district. The minimum standards for boundary surveys in the
state and the measurement specifications as presented in O.A.C. Chapter 4733-37
shall be used as minimum standards;
   (B)   Date, scale, north point and acreage;
   (C)   Name, address and telephone number of owner, sub-divider, professional
surveyor and professional engineer with appropriate numbers and seals;
   (D)   Plat boundaries, based on accurate traverse, with angular and linear
dimensions determined by an accurate control survey in the field. All lot lines
shall be shown with accurate dimensions in feet and hundredths;
   (E)   Building front, rear and side yard setback lines shown with
dimensions;
   (F)   Outline of areas to be dedicated or reserved for public or common use
of property owners within the plat, and previous lots or blocks and their
numbers indicated by contrasting line style in the case of a replat;
   (G)   Bearings and distances to the nearest established street lines, and
accurate location and description of all monuments;
   (H)   Names, locations, dimensions, rights-of-way of all existing and
proposed streets and railroads within and adjoining the plat. Radii, internal
angles, points of curvature, tangent bearings, length of arcs and lengths and
bearing of chords of all streets;
   (I)   Locations and dimensions of all easements and rights-of-way, with
dimensions, purposes and wording addressing the uses of such easements or
rights-of-way;
   (J)   Location of all streams, rivers, canals or lakes, and flood hazard
boundaries of the area. Base flood elevations shall be determined by the sub-
divider’s professional engineer, in areas where such information has not been
made available by other means, for subdivisions greater than five acres in
size;
   (K)   The owners of record, size and deed book and page references for all
abutting tracts, and the name of all abutting subdivisions, with lot lines, lot
numbers and plat book and page references; and
   (L)   A copy of any restrictive covenants, and other notes, items,
restrictions or provisions required by these regulations, the Planning
Commission, the City Manager or other plat-signing authority.
(Prior Code, § 23.03.26)
§ 151.066 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FOR FINAL PLAT.
   The following information shall be supplied in addition to the above
required data:
   (A)   If a zoning change is involved, certification from the City Council
Clerk or the appropriate-township or County Zoning Officer shall be required
indicating that the change has been approved and is in accordance with the
requirements of the local zoning resolution;
   (B)   A letter from the appropriate County Engineer, Township Trustee, City
Manager or ODOT district office indicating that a driveway permits may be
issued onto the existing public road or roads; and
   (C)   If a homeowners’ association or an improvements maintenance agreement
is proposed, include sample association bylaws and/or copies of the proposed
maintenance agreement.
(Prior Code, § 23.03.27)
§ 151.067 FINAL PLAT FILING.
   If a preliminary plan was approved, the final plat shall be filed with the
Planning Commission not later than one year after the date of approval of the
preliminary plan; otherwise, it will be considered void unless an extension is
requested by the sub-divider and granted, in writing, by the Planning
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 23.03.28)
§ 151.068 CITY PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall act on the final plat within 45 days
after filing, unless such time is extended by agreement with the sub-divider,
the final plat is withdrawn or a delay-of-action is requested and granted. If
disapproved, the reason shall be stated in the record of the Planning
Commission. Failure of the Planning Commission to act upon the final plat
within such time shall be deemed an approval of the plat. If disapproved, the
sub-divider shall make the necessary corrections and resubmit the final plat,
within 30 days, to the Planning Commission for its final approval. If a final
plat is refused by the Planning Commission, the sub-divider may file a petition
within 60 days after such refusal in the County Court of Common Pleas of the
county in which the land described in said plat is situated to reconsider the
action of the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Within five days after the submission of the final plat for approval,
the Planning Commission shall schedule a meeting to consider the plat and, if
applicable, send a written notice by certified mail, return receipt requested,
to the Clerk of the Board of Township Trustees of the township in which the
proposed plat is located. The notice shall inform the Trustees of the
submission of the proposed plat and of the date, time and location of any
meeting at which the Planning Commission will consider or act upon the proposed
plat.
(Prior Code, § 23.03.29)
§ 151.069 PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   Prior to the granting of approval of the final plat, the Planning Commission
shall require that either all public improvements be installed and dedicated
prior to the signing of the final plat by the Planning Commission President or
his or her designee, or shall require that the sub-divider furnish a
performance guarantee for the ultimate installation of said improvements. The
requirements, approval and length of term for the performance guarantee shall
be administered by the Planning Commission, and are described in §§
151.195 through
151.203.
(Prior Code, § 23.03.30)
§ 151.070 FINAL PLAT EXPIRATION.
   The sub-divider shall record the final plat within 90 days of receiving all
required signatures; otherwise, the final plat approval shall expire and become
void.
(Prior Code, § 23.03.31)
§ 151.071 SIGNING, RECORDATION AND TRANSMITTAL OF COPIES OF FINAL PLAT.
   When a final plat has been approved and all conditions for approval have
been satisfied, the President, or designated representative of the Planning
Commission, shall sign the certificate of approval on the original tracing,
forward a copy to the City Council and return the original to the sub-divider.
In accordance with §
4.08(f) of the Charter, hereinafter referred to as “the Charter”, final
approval by the City Council shall be obtained by ordinance. The sub-divider
shall, within 90 days of City Council approval, submit a copy of the approved
plat for processing by the County Tax Map Department, County Auditor and filing
with the County Recorder. It shall be the responsibility of the sub-divider to
gain all necessary certifications before filing the plat with the appropriate
County Recorder. The sub-divider shall provide the Planning Commission with a
paper copy of the approved plat. After the plat is recorded, the original plat
or an archival quality reproducible reproduction shall be filed with the
appropriate County Recorder. Any county office may require the submission of
the final plat in digital or computer format.
(Prior Code, § 23.03.32)
§ 151.072 FINAL PLAT AMENDMENTS.
   Procedures and requirements for changing a Planning Commission-approved
final plat (signed, unsigned, recorded or unrecorded) shall be specified by the
Planning Commission in keeping with the spirit, intent and purpose of these
regulations. Amendment fees are set forth in the appendix. Changes to recorded
plats involving resubdivision or other changes which may adversely impact
owners of lots within a subdivision may require signatures of such lot owners,
according to R.C. § 711.24.
(Prior Code, § 23.03.33)
DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
§ 151.085 GENERAL PURPOSE.
   The purpose of good subdivision and site design is to create a functional
and attractive development, minimize adverse impacts and ensure that a project
will be an asset to the city. To promote this purpose, the subdivision shall
conform to this subchapter’s standards which are designed to result in a well-
planned community without adding unnecessarily to development costs. These
design controls shall help ensure creation of convenient and safe streets,
usable lots, allocation of space for public purposes and will minimize the
undesirable features of unplanned, haphazard growth. The Planning Commission
has the responsibility for reviewing the design of each future subdivision
early in its design development to ensure that all the requirements of these
regulations are addressed.
(Prior Code, § 23.04.01)
§ 151.086 SUITABILITY OF LAND.
   If the Planning Commission finds that land proposed to be subdivided is
unsuitable for subdivision development due to poor drainage, flood hazard,
topography, inadequate water supply, landslip potential or other such
conditions which may endanger health, life, safety or property; and if, by any
public agencies concerned, it is determined that in the best interest of the
public the land should not be developed for the purpose proposed, the Planning
Commission shall not approve the subdivision unless adequate methods for
solving the problems are advanced by the sub-divider.
(Prior Code, § 23.04.02)
§ 151.087 CONFORMANCE TO APPLICABLE RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   In addition to the requirements established in these regulations, all
subdivisions shall comply with the following:
   (A)   All applicable laws of the city or of governments in which the
subdivision is located;
   (B)   A comprehensive plan, public utility plan and capital improvement
program, including plans for all streets, drainage systems and parks shown in
any comprehensive plan as adopted by the city;
   (C)   The special requirements of these regulations and any rule of the
Health Department of jurisdiction and/or appropriate state agencies;
   (D)   The rules of ODOT if the subdivision or any lot contained therein
abuts a state highway or connected street; and
   (E)   The standards and regulations adopted by the City Council, and all
boards, agencies and officials of the city.
(Prior Code, § 23.04.03) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.088 SUBDIVISION AND SITE DESIGN.
   (A)   (1)   Design of the subdivision shall take into consideration any
existing applicable comprehensive plans, and shall be based on a site analysis.
      (2)   To the maximum extent practicable, development shall be located to
preserve the natural features of the site, to avoid environmentally sensitive
areas and to minimize the negative impacts that may occur by altering natural
features.
   (B)   The following specific areas shall be preserved as undeveloped open
space, to the extent consistent with the reasonable utilization of land and in
accordance with applicable state or federal regulations:
      (1)   Unique and/or fragile areas, including wetlands, as may be defined
in the Water Pollution Control Act, § 404, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., as
amended; and in State Environmental Protection Agency, hereinafter referred to
as “the OEPA”, standards;
      (2)   Land in the floodway as identified and mapped using the NFIP flood
hazard boundary maps;
      (3)   Steep slopes in excess of 15% unless appropriate engineering
measures concerning slope stability, erosion and resident safety are taken into
account;
      (4)   Habitats of endangered flora and fauna, as identified on federal
and state lists of endangered species; and
      (5)   Historically and culturally significant structures and sites as
listed on the National Register of Historical Places.
   (C)   The development shall be laid out to avoid adversely affecting
groundwater and aquifer recharge; to reduce cut and fill; to avoid unnecessary
impervious cover; to prevent flooding; to minimize disturbance of riparian
areas; to provide adequate access to lots and sites; and to mitigate adverse
effects of noise, odor, traffic, drainage and utilities on neighboring
properties. Lot design for building sites shall take into consideration
topography, privacy, building height, orientation and drainage and aesthetics.
(Prior Code, § 23.04.04) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.089 BLOCKS.
   The following regulations shall govern the design and layout of blocks.
   (A)   The arrangements of blocks shall conform to the street design criteria
set forth in these regulations.
   (B)   Blocks shall be arranged to accommodate lots and building sites of the
size and character required by these regulations and any applicable zoning
resolution to provide for adequate community facilities and with regard to the
limitations and opportunities of topography.
   (C)   Irregularly shaped blocks, blocks intended for cul-de-sacs and loop
streets and blocks containing interior parks and playgrounds may be approved by
the Planning Commission if properly designed and located.
   (D)   No block shall be larger than 1,400 feet or less than 800 feet. Cross
streets shall be provided between blocks.
   (E)   Where blocks are more than 900 feet in length, a walkway easement not
less than ten feet in width at or near the halfway point of the block may be
required.
   (F)   Through lots (extending from one street to the other) shall be
discouraged to avoid problems between adjoining owners and to reduce the number
of streets.
(Prior Code, § 23.04.05) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.090 LOT IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Lot arrangement and dimensions.
      (1)   Lot arrangement, design and dimensions shall be such that all lots
will provide satisfactory building sites. Driveway access to buildings on the
lot shall be from an existing approved street, shall be properly related to
topography and the character of the surrounding development and shall be in
compliance with all local regulations.
      (2)   Where a county or township zoning resolution is not in effect, the
minimum lot size, width and frontage shall be as specified in Table 1 in
division (A)(4) below. Where soils conditions are of such a nature that proper
operation of wells and septic tanks may be impaired, the Planning Commission,
upon recommendation from the appropriate Health Department, may increase the
size of any or all lots in the subdivision, or may deny approval of the
subdivision.
      (3)   Dimensions of corner lots shall be large enough to allow the
erection of buildings, observing the minimum front-yard setback from both
streets.
      (4)   The maximum depth of any lot shall not be greater than four times
its width.
Table 1: Minimum Lot Areas and Width Requirements
                                                Minimum      Front     Setback
            Public    Central   Minimum Lot     Requirements (feet)            Side    Rear
Development Water     Sewage    Lot     Area                           Local   Setback Setback
Type        Available Treatment Width   (square Arterial     Collector and     (feet)  (feet)
                      Available (feet)  feet)   Street       Street    Cul-de-
                                                                       sac
Table 1: Minimum Lot Areas and Width Requirements
                                                   Minimum      Front     Setback
            Public    Central   Minimum    Lot     Requirements (feet)            Side    Rear
Development Water     Sewage    Lot Width  Area                           Local   Setback Setback
Type        Available Treatment (feet)     (square Arterial     Collector and     (feet)  (feet)
                      Available            feet)   Street       Street    Cul-de-
                                                                          sac
Commercial  Yes       No        100        1 acre  40           30        30      10 or 0 50
Use or C-   No        Yes       100        20,000  40           30        30      with 2- 50
1 and C-    Yes       Yes       70         9,450   10           10        0       hour    20
2 Zone      No        No        200        1 acre  50           50        50      fire    100
                                                                                  rating
            Yes       No        150        1 acre  40           30        30      10 or 0 50
Industrial  No        Yes       100        20,000  40           30        10      with 2- 50
Use or I-   Yes       Yes       70         9,450   10           10        10      hour    20
Zone        No        No        200        1 acre  50           50        50      fire    100
                                                                                  rating
Multi-      Yes       No        90                 30           25        25      10      25
Family Use  No        Yes       90         20,000  30           25        25      10      25
or R-2 Zone Yes       Yes       70         9,450   30           25        25      10      25
            No        No        Prohibited
Single-     Yes       No        90         20,000  30           25        25      10      25
Family Use  No        Yes       90         20,000  30           25        25      10      25
or R-1 Zone Yes       Yes       70         9,450   30           25        25      10      25
            No        No        Prohibited
Note: Lot area does not include road right-of-way. Lot areas may be increased by recommendation
of the appropriate County Health Department. For slope areas where the average topographic slope
is 15% or greater, refer to §§
151.240 through
151.249.
 
   (B)   Lot design.
      (1)   Residential lots shall front on a dedicated public street (existing
or proposed).
      (2)   Side lot lines shall be at right angles to street lines or radial
to curving street lines, unless a variation from these rules will give a better
street or lot plan. However, side lot lines shall not deflect more than 30
degrees from the perpendicular in relation to street centerlines. A side lot
line shall maintain the same angle of deflection between the front lot line and
the minimum building setback line as established by the zoning resolution or
these regulations.
   (C)   Double frontage lots and access to lots.
      (1)   Double frontage and reversed frontage lots shall be avoided except
where necessary to provide separation of residential development from traffic
arterials or to overcome specific disadvantages of topography and orientation.
Residential lots abutting arterial or collector streets, where marginal access
streets are not desirable or possible to attain, shall be designed as reverse
lots or with side lot lines parallel to the major traffic streets. These
requirements may be waived by mutual consent of the Planning Commission and the
City Manager.
      (2)   Lots may not be created by dividing land at the end of stub streets
in adjacent subdivisions, such stub-streets being intended to promote
continuity of street systems in adjoining subdivisions.
      (3)   A minimum 50 foot rear yard setback may be required where a
residential lot in a subdivision backs up to a railroad right-of-way, a high
pressure gasoline or natural gas line, an arterial street or interstate
highway, an industrial area or other existing land use which may have a
detrimental effect on the residential use of the property, and where no local
street is provided at the rear of such lot.
(Prior Code, § 23.04.06) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.091 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Easements for utilities may be located along front, rear or side lot
lines as necessary. Location of utility easements, including drainage ditches,
within the road right-of-way shall be located outside of the improved portion
of the roadway. Easements shall give access to every lot, park or public
grounds. Such easements shall be a total of not less than 20 feet wide.
   (B)   Recommendations on the proposed layout of telephone, electric company
and water line easements shall be sought from all of the utility companies
serving the area. It shall be the responsibility of the sub-divider to submit
copies of the preliminary plan to all appropriate public utility companies.
   (C)   (1)   Easements shall be provided for storm drainage purposes. Such
easements shall conform substantially with the lines of any natural
watercourse, channels, streams or creeks which traverse the subdivision or for
any new channel which is established to substitute for an existing natural
watercourse, channel, stream or creek.
      (2)   Such easements shall be of sufficient width to provide adequate
area for maintenance; however, shall not be less than 20 feet. Provision of
easements in no way makes any political subdivision responsible for maintenance
of storm water facilities.
   (D)   Utilities may be placed underground, according to the standards of the
appropriate utility company.
   (E)   The location of mailboxes and similar structures in the right-of-way
of a public or private street shall be constructed so as to not create a hazard
to the public. The City Manager shall determine what constitutes a hazard.
(Prior Code, § 23.04.07) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.092 STANDARDS FOR NONRESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   In addition to the principles and standards in these regulations, the
applicant shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Planning Commission that
the streets, parcels, blocks and lot patterns proposed are specifically adapted
to the uses anticipated and take into account other uses in the vicinity.
   (B)   Proposed industrial parcels shall be suitable in areas and dimensions
to the types of industrial development anticipated.
   (C)   Every effort shall be made to protect adjacent residential areas from
potential nuisance from a proposed commercial or industrial subdivision,
including the provision of extra depth in parcels backing up on existing or
potential residential development and provisions for a permanently landscaped
buffer strip when necessary.
   (D)   Blocks intended for commercial and industrial subdivisions shall be
designed specifically for such purposes and shall include adequate provisions
for parking, loading and delivery services. Such blocks shall not be less than
250 feet in width and not less than 500 feet in length.
   (E)   Lots intended for purposes other than residential use shall be
specifically noted and designed for such purposes, and shall have adequate
provisions for off-street parking, setbacks and loading and unloading areas.
(Prior Code, § 23.04.08) Penalty, see §
151.999
STREET DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
§ 151.105 GENERAL.
   These regulations shall control the manner in which the road system is
arranged on the land to permit the safe, efficient and orderly movement of
traffic; to meet the needs of the present and future population; to have a
simple and logical pattern; to minimize impact to natural features and
topography; and to present an attractive streetscape.
(Prior Code, § 23.05.01)
§ 151.106 CONFORMITY TO DEVELOPMENT PLANS AND ZONING.
   (A)   No subdivision shall be approved unless the area to be subdivided has
frontage on and access from an existing street on the official thoroughfare
map, or if there is no official thoroughfare map, unless such street is an
existing state, county or township highway or a street shown upon a plat
approved by the Planning Commission and recorded in the appropriate County
Recorder’s office. Such street or highway must be suitably improved, as
required by these regulations, or guaranteed, with a performance bond, to be
improved as required by these regulations.
   (B)   In addition, no final plat of land within an existing zoning district
shall be approved unless it conforms to all requirements of the zoning
district.
(Prior Code, § 23.05.02)
§ 151.107 OFFICIAL THOROUGHFARE DESIGN STANDARDS.
    Design standards and required improvements to arterial streets and roads
are contained in Table 2 below. Construction design criteria of these streets
are to be determined by the City Manager when such streets abut or cross the
proposed subdivision. Certain improvements may be waived upon recommendation of
the City Manager and after review and approval by the Commission. In all cases,
right-of-way dedications shall be required for streets leading to new
subdivisions.
 
Table 2: Street Design Width Standards for Arterial Roads
R/W (feet) Sidewalks (feet) Planting Strip (feet) Median (feet) Pavement (feet)
70         5                8                     None          44
82         5                5                     14            48
90         5                9                     14            48
120        5                12                    14            72
 
(Prior Code, § 23.05.03) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.108 STREET NAMES.
   (A)   Names of new streets are subject to the approval of the county or
Hocking County Emergency Communications/911 office. Such names shall not
duplicate or be similar to those of existing or platted streets, regardless of
the use of the suffix “street”, “avenue”, “lane” and the like.
   (B)   When a new street is a direct extension of an existing street, the
name shall remain the same.
   (C)   Street names shall be displayed at each street intersection with
street signs of the type established by the county. The sub-divider is
responsible for the cost of purchasing and installing all signage.
(Prior Code, § 23.05.04) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.109 STREET AND CIRCULATION SYSTEM DESIGNS.
   (A)   The arrangement, character, extent and location of all streets shall
conform to the thoroughfare plan of the city; such streets shall be considered
in their relation to existing and planned streets, topographic conditions,
public convenience and safety, and in their relation to the proposed uses of
land to be served by such streets. The Planning Commission reserves the right
to disapprove any street plan which does not represent good design or does not
ensure continuity of the existing street system.
   (B)   The road system shall be designed to serve the need of the
neighborhood and to discourage through-traffic in the interior of such
subdivision. Residential driveway access shall not be permitted onto principal
arterials. Major subdivisions shall be designed to discourage residential
driveway access onto major arterial and collector roadways by using access
roads. Minimizing driveway access points or curb cuts by using access roads
shall be encouraged.
   (C)   There shall be no private streets, lanes, roads, ways or private
easements used for the purpose of primary access to any subdivision, including
subdivisions exempt from platting under R.C. § 711.131 unless constructed and
maintained to county road specifications and standards.
(Prior Code, § 23.05.05) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.110 STREET VACATION.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall not recommend to the City Council the
vacation of any street dedicated to and accepted by the public if such vacation
will adversely affect the proper functioning of the existing street system or
any future street plan prepared by, or approved by, the Planning Commission.
   (B)   The procedure to vacate a street or alley may be found in R.C. §§
5553.01 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 23.05.06)
§ 151.111 RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   The right-of-way, hereinafter referred to as “the R/W”, shall be
measured from lot line to lot line at a width recommended in accordance with
Table 3 in division (C) below and shall be sufficient in width to contain the
roadway, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, utilities, graded areas and shade trees.
   (B)   The R/W of a new road that is a continuation of an existing road shall
in no case be continued at a width less than that of the existing street.
   (C)   The R/W for roads shall be in accordance with the major thoroughfare
plan, and shall provide for future development.
Table 3: Right-of-Way Recommended Standards
Street Type R/W Width (feet)
Table 3: Right-of-Way Recommended Standards
Street Type            R/W Width (feet)
Alley                  20 - 28
Cul-de-sac             50
Local industrial       60 - 80
Local street/road      50 - 60
Major arterial         120 - 300
Major collector        64 - 80
Marginal access street 50
Minor arterial         80 - 100
Minor collector        60 - 80
 
(Prior Code, § 23.05.07) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.112 HORIZONTAL ALIGNMENT.
   When there is an angle of deflection of more than one degree between two
centerline tangent sections of a street, the following conditions shall be met:
For residential streets:
   (A)   The preferred maximum degree of curvature (D) is 16°00’.
   (B)   The maximum allowable degree of curvature shall be 23°00’, where
degree of curvature is defined as:
      (1)   D=5730.28 feet/R; and
      (2)   Where R= radius of the curve.
   (C)   Sight conditions shall be such that minimum stopping sight distance is
between 150 and 250 feet, depending upon whether the terrain is level, rolling
or hilly, as defined in these regulations. This minimum required distance may
be increased by the City Manager based upon analysis of site conditions. A
minimum tangent length of 100 feet shall be introduced between reverse curves.
Design criteria for other than residential streets shall meet with the approval
of the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 23.05.08) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.113 VERTICAL ALIGNMENT.
   All changes in grade in residential streets shall be connected by vertical
curves, the minimum length of which satisfies the following requirements:
   (A)   Twenty times (measured in feet) the algebraic difference in the rates
of grade;
   (B)   A minimum stopping sight distance of between 150 and 250 feet
depending upon whether the terrain is level, rolling or hilly, as defined in
these regulations. The City Manager may increase minimum site distance based
upon an analysis of site conditions;
   (C)   The appropriate maximum gradient as specified in the Table shall not
be exceeded; and
   (D)   No street grade shall be less than 0.6% and in no case shall a street
grade on a collector or arterial street be more than 5% within 100 feet of an
intersection. Lesser classification of streets shall in no case have a street
grade in excess of 10% within 100 feet of an intersection. For slopes, refer to
§§
151.240 through
151.249.
(Prior Code, § 23.05.09) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.114 SPECIAL STREET TYPES.
   The following requirements shall apply to special street types.
   (A)   One-way streets are permitted in new subdivisions if the Planning
Commission determines that such streets are properly integrated with the
existing and proposed street systems in the area.
      (1)   Permanent dead-end streets shall not be permitted. Temporary dead-
end streets shall be permitted only as a segment of a continuing street plan
subject to extension into undeveloped acreage. Temporary dead-end streets shall
extend to the boundary of such undeveloped acreage and shall be provided with
an interim turnaround satisfactory to the Planning Commission.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall reserve the right to limit the length
of such a dead-end street based on principles of proper planning, and the
Planning Commission may require R/W dedication along the boundary between a
proposed subdivision and the undeveloped acreage to provide for future
development.
      (3)   Cul-de sac streets shall not exceed a length of 1,000 feet measured
to the center of the radius of the turnaround. The terminus may be circular
with a minimum radius of 55 feet measured from a point on the street
centerline. Other termini types, such as “Ts” or vegetated islands, are
acceptable and subject to review and approval by the City Manager and the
Planning Commission. Cul-de-sacs that exceed 1,000 feet in length may be
approved by the Planning Commission if there is no other feasible way to
provide access to the lots.
   (B)   The dedication of new half-streets shall not be permitted. If a parcel
to be subdivided exists adjacent to a dedicated or platted and recorded half-
width street or alley, the other half-width of such street or alley falling
within the proposed subdivision shall be platted; provided that, in the opinion
of the Planning Commission, such right-of-way is necessary for the proper
development of the area.
   (C)   Where a subdivision adjoins a major thoroughfare, a marginal access
street shall be designed to control access to the thoroughfare from lots
fronting on it. Points of access to the arterial street shall be spaced at a
minimum of 1,320 feet. A planting strip having a minimum width of 20 feet shall
be provided between the pavement of the marginal access street. The minimum
width of the marginal access right-of-way shall be 50 feet. In addition, the
Planning Commission may also require the provision of buffer planting strips,
the platting of loop streets or cul-de-sacs connected to such parallel streets
or any combination of such.
   (D)   Easements or reserve strips controlling access to streets shall be
prohibited except where deemed necessary by the Commission and where their
control is definitely placed with the city.
   (E)   In subdividing land along existing streets or roads and within a
proposed subdivision, provisions for the dedication of land for one or more
access streets to undeveloped land not fronting on an existing street or road
shall be incorporated. Said access streets shall be spaced not less than 800
feet nor more than 1,400 feet apart.
   (F)   Alleys may be approved in residential subdivisions, when justified by
subdivision street design, to provide vehicular access to parking areas. Alleys
may be approved in commercial and industrial subdivisions if no other
provisions can be made for adequate service access. The minimum width for an
alley R/W shall be 20 feet and they shall be dedicated to the public. Alley
intersections, sharp changes in alignment and dead-ends shall not be permitted
unless extreme conditions would warrant such permission.
(Prior Code, § 23.05.10) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.115 STREET DESIGN STANDARDS FOR ALL COLLECTOR STREETS.
   The design and improvements standards contained herein Table 4 below are
minimums for all collector streets.
Table 4: Street Design Standards for Collector
                       Collector Street
Terrain Classification Level Rolling Hilly
Table 4: Street Design Standards for Collector
                                                            Collector Street
Terrain Classification                                      Level Rolling Hilly
Berms (total both sides)                                    4     4       4
Pavement width (feet)                                       28    28      28
Maximum grade                                               4%    8%      12%
Minimum center line radius                                  350   350     350
Minimum center line radius of streets with an angle of/turn
of                                                          -     -       -
(1) Between 80 and 100                                      -     -       -
(2) Less than 80 or more than 100
Minimum spacing when intersecting with an arterial (feet)   1,320 1,320   1,320
Minimum stopping sight distance (feet)                      250   200     150
Right-of-way (feet)                                         60    60      60
*A utility easement ten feet in width may be required along each side of the
street right-of-way for these streets.
Note: Exceptions to the standards contained in this table are permitted under
certain conditions for large lots. Hillside lots with grades of more than 15%
are also subject to exceptions as provided under §§
151.240 through
151.249.
 
(Prior Code, § 23.05.11) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.116 STREET DESIGN STANDARDS FOR LOCAL STREETS.
   The design and improvement standards contained herein are minimums for local
streets in residential subdivisions. All such streets shall be designed and
constructed in accordance with standards as specified in the following table.
Cul-de-sacs are required whenever a street is intended to be permanently dead-
ended.
Table 5: Street Design Standards for Local Streets, including Cul-de-sacs
Terrain Classification Level Rolling Hilly
Table 5: Street Design Standards for Local Streets, including Cul-de-sacs
Terrain Classification                                 Level Rolling Hilly
Berms (total both sides)                               4     4       4
Maximum cul-de-sac length                              1,000 1,000   1,000
Maximum grade                                          4%    8%      15%
Minimum centerline radius of streets with an angle of: 50    50      50
(1) Between 80 and 100                                 200   200     200
(2) Less than 80 or more than 100
Minimum cul-de-sac radius (pavement)                   45    45      45
Minimum cul-de-sac radius (R/W)                        55    55      55
Minimum stopping sight distance (feet)                 250   200     150
Pavement width (feet)                                  22    22      22
Right-of-way (feet)                                    50*   50*     50*
*A utility easement 10 feet in width may be required along each side of the
street right-of-way for these streets.
Note: Exceptions to the standards contained in this table are permitted
under certain conditions for large lots. Hillside lots with grades of more
than 15% are also subject to exceptions as provided under §§
151.240 through
151.249.
Note: See Drawing 1 for a typical section of a local street.
 
(Prior Code, § 23.05.12) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.117 INTERSECTION DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   The design and improvement standards are suggested minimums for all
street intersections in subdivisions. All such intersections shall be designed
in accordance with standards as specified in Table 6 below.
   (B)   Multiple intersections involving junctions of more than two streets
shall not be permitted. Proposed streets shall intersect one another as nearly
at right angles as topography or other limiting factors will permit.
   (C)   No intersection of streets on angles less than 60 degrees shall be
approved unless justified by extreme topographical conditions. In such a case,
special provisions as deemed necessary by the Commission shall be made.
 
Table 6: Intersection Design Standards
Terrain Classification                          Level   Rolling    Hilly
Clear sight distance length along each approach 90 feet 90 feet    70 feet
leg
Maximum approach speed                          25 mph  25 mph     25 mph
Vertical alignment with intersection            Crown   5% maximum 5% maximum
Minimum angle of intersection shall remain in the angle of intersection for
at least 100 feet beyond the point of intersection: 60 degrees considered an
absolute minimum (90 degrees preferred)
Minimum Curb Radius (Feet)
Minimum Curb Radius (Feet)
(a) Local-local                         20 - all classes
(b) Local-collector                     30 - all classes
(c) Collector-collector                 35 - all classes
(d) Collector, marginal access-arterial 40 - all classes
Minimum Centerline Offset of Adjacent Intersection (Feet)
(a) Local-local                         150 - all classes
(b) Local-collector                     150 - all classes
(c) Collector-collector                 200 - all classes
(d) Collector, marginal access-arterial 1,320 - all classes
 
(Prior Code, § 23.05.13) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.118 STREETS FOR COMMERCIAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   Streets serving business developments and accessory parking areas shall be
planned to connect with arterial streets so as not to generate traffic on local
streets. The intersection of driveways from parking areas with arterial or
collector streets shall be located so as to cause the least possible
interference with traffic movement on the streets, and shall be located not
less than 100 feet from the intersection of an arterial or collector street
with any other street, and shall be spaced not less than 200 feet from each
other. The Commission may require marginal access streets to provide maximum
safety and convenience.
(Prior Code, § 23.05.14) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.119 STREETS FOR INDUSTRIAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   Collector streets for industrial subdivisions shall be planned to serve
industrial areas exclusively and shall connect with arterial streets so that no
industrial traffic will be directed into any residential streets. Intersections
with service streets shall be at least 100 feet away from all other
intersections. Streets shall be planned to be extended to the boundaries of any
adjoining land planned for industry, except if severe physical conditions
prevent this or if the Commission finds such extension is not in accord with
the approved plan of the area.
(Prior Code, § 23.05.15) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.120 DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   (1)   A private driveway right-of-way may be used only by approved
variance to provide vehicular access to no more than four single-family
detached dwelling units. If approved, a homeowners’ association shall be formed
to provide for the long-term maintenance of any private driveway.
      (2)   Common driveways shall have a maintenance agreement acceptable to
the Commission. The maintenance agreement shall specifically state that
adequate access for fire and emergency vehicles shall be maintained at all
times. The minimum standard for a private driveway right-of-way serving less
than four lots shall be a graded and drained driveway at least ten feet in
width with a minimum depth of four inches of crushed stone. Any driveway
serving more than four single-family dwelling units shall be considered a
street and shall be designed and constructed according to this chapter.
   (B)   Access roads or vehicular ways within subdivisions containing single-
family attached dwelling units or multi-family dwellings shall be considered
streets and designed and constructed according to these regulations.
   (C)   A driveway permit shall be obtained from the office of the City
Manager, County Engineer, Township Trustee or ODOT prior to construction of a
driveway by the homeowner.
   (D)   When adequate frontage is available on a non-limited access highway,
two driveways to a property used for a single purpose may be permitted.
   (E)   (1)   Driveways shall have a maximum grade of 15% within the right-of-
way.
      (2)   Driveways and curb cuts shall be located not less than three feet
from the side lot line. Curb cuts for straight curbs and the flare for rolled
curbs shall be three feet wider than the driveway on each side.
      (3)   The sub-divider shall place the approved drainage structures under
intersecting driveways. Driveways shall be designed so as to drain into the
roadside ditch and not into the roadway surface. See Drawing 2 for a typical
section of a local street/driveway intersection.
 
Table 7: Recommended Driveway Dimensions
                              Residential Commercial Industrial
Maximum width                 30          40         40
Minimum angle of intersection 45          45         45
Minimum width                 10          15         20
Turn radius maximum           25          50         50
Turn radius minimum           10          15         25
Table 8: Recommended Parking Standards
Type of Uses Off-Street Parking Requirements
Table 8: Recommended Parking Standards
Type of Uses                         Off-Street Parking Requirements
Churches and temples                 1 space for each 3 seats
Fast-food establishment              1 per 30 square feet of usable floor
                                     area
Industrial uses                      1 space for each employee in the largest
                                     working shift
Medical center                       1 per 250 square feet of usable floor
                                     area
Mobile homes                         2 space per unit
Office uses                          2 spaces plus 1 space for each 200
                                     square foot of usable floor area
Office uses                          1 space for each 100 square feet of
                                     usable floor area
One-/two-family dwellings            2 space/DU
Restaurant                           1 per 3 seats
Retail store                         1 per 200 square feet of usable floor
                                     area
School                               2 per classroom, but not less than 1 per
                                     teacher and staff member
Shopping center under 400,000 square 4 per 1,000 square feet of usable floor
feet                                 area
Shopping center 400,000 - 599,999    4.5 per 1,000 square feet of usable
square feet                          floor area
Shopping center 600,000+ square feet 5 per 1,000 square feet of usable floor
                                     area
Townhouses and multiple family       2 space/DU
Note: Where and if these standards conflict with applicable zoning
regulations, the zoning regulations’ standards shall apply. Each off-street
parking space shall measure nine feet in width by 20 feet in length and be
permanently hard surfaced with asphalt or concrete within the city. Parking
spaces for the physically handicapped shall measure 12 feet in width. For
every 25 spaces, there must be at least one handicapped accessible space,
labeled and signed as such.
 
(Prior Code, § 23.05.16) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.121 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   (A)   Off-street parking areas shall be located within a reasonable walking
distance of the buildings they are designed to serve and must be located on the
same parcel of land as the intended use.
   (B)   Access to parking areas shall be designed so as not to obstruct free
flow of traffic. There shall be adequate provision for ingress and egress, in
the opinion of the City Manager, from all parking spaces to ensure ease of
mobility, ample clearance and emergency vehicle and pedestrian access.
   (C)   Parking lots containing ten or more spaces shall be planted with at
least one tree per eight spaces, no smaller than two-inch caliper (tree trunk
diameter at chest height).
   (D)   Parking areas shall be screened along lot lines bordering
institutional or residential uses and along streets. Native trees and shrubs
shall be planted wherever possible.
   (E)   The width of all aisles providing direct access to individual parking
stalls shall be in accordance with the requirements specified below. Only one-
way traffic shall be permitted in aisles serving single-row parking spaces
placed at an angle other than 90 degrees.
   (F)   Parking spaces within the corporate limits of the city shall comply
with the requirements of the zoning code or other applicable parking ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 23.05.17) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.122 SIDEWALKS AND GRADED AREAS.
   (A)   Sidewalks may be required in all subdivisions. Where the average lot
line frontage is 100 feet or less, sidewalks may be required on both sides of
the street. Where the average lot line frontage is greater than 100 feet,
sidewalks may only be required on one side of the street. Where the average lot
line frontage is greater than 150 feet, sidewalks may not be required.
   (B)   In conventional developments, sidewalks shall be placed in the right-
of-way, parallel to the street, unless an exception has been permitted to
preserve topographical or natural features or to provide visual interest, or
unless the applicant shows that an alternative pedestrian system provides safe
and convenient circulation. In commercial and in high-density residential
areas, sidewalks may abut the curb.
   (C)   Pedestrian-way easements ten feet wide may be required by the
Commission through the center of blocks to provide circulation or access to
schools, playgrounds, shopping or other community facilities.
   (D)   Sidewalks shall measure four feet in width; wider widths may be
necessary near pedestrian generators and employment centers. Where sidewalks
abut the curb and parked cars overhang the sidewalk, widths shall be five feet.
The width of graded areas shall be the same as for sidewalks.
   (E)   Sidewalks and graded areas shall be constructed according to the
specifications set forth in these regulations.
   (F)   Public sidewalks may be required for industrial lots, subject to the
approval of the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 23.05.18) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.123 STREET AND WALKWAY LIGHTING.
   The Planning Commission may require the sub-divider to install street lights
in accordance with standards and specifications of the City Manager, with
consultation provided by the local electric utility company, in each
residential subdivision which contains a majority of lots with an individual
lot width of 100 feet or less at the front property line. Such lights shall be
located at each street intersection within the subdivision and at other
locations deemed necessary by the City Manager. Street lights shall be
designed, with appropriate lamps and reflectors, to minimize light pollution.
(Prior Code, § 23.05.19) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.124 MONUMENTS, MARKERS AND PINS.
   Monuments shall be set at all subdivision corners and iron pins at lot
corners. The City Manager may require other monuments or iron pins to be set in
the subdivision. For lot corners, reinforcing bars five-eighths by 30 inches
will be acceptable. Other types of markers may be used if approved by the City
Manager. Subdivision corner and benchmark monuments shall be encased with
concrete at least six inches in diameter and 30 inches in depth. All monuments
and iron pins shall be identified on the final plat, and shall be in place at
the time the roads and other improvements are inspected for acceptance by the
City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 23.05.20) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.125 CULVERTS AND BRIDGES.
   (A)   Where natural drainage channels intersect any street right-of-way, it
shall be the responsibility of the sub-divider to have satisfactory bridges
and/or culverts constructed. The drainage channel is then to be maintained by
the property owner and not modified, filled or diverted without the consent of
the City Manager.
   (B)   Where culverts are required, minimum requirements shall be observed as
follows: All culverts shall extend for an adequate distance to accommodate the
required roadway embankment slopes. The cover over the culvert and its capacity
shall be determined by the sub-divider’s professional engineer and approved by
the City Manager. The minimum diameter of the culvert pipe shall be 12 inches.
Depending on the existing drainage conditions, head walls may be required.
Where driveway culverts are wholly or partially in the street right-of-way,
they shall have a minimum length of 20 feet and minimum diameter of 12 inches.
The driveway culverts shall be placed so as to maintain the flow lines of the
ditch or gutter.
(Prior Code, § 23.05.21) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.126 STREET IMPROVEMENTS.
   All streets and thoroughfares shall be graded to their full width, including
side slopes, and improved in conformance with the standards given or referred
to in these regulations. These standards are considered minimum and are subject
to change where deemed necessary. All materials and construction procedures
shall be in accordance with the current Construction and Materials
Specifications of ODOT or the specifications on file in the appropriate County
Engineer’s office, whichever are more stringent.
(Prior Code, § 23.05.22) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.127 STREET WIDTH.
   Minimum street pavement widths shall conform to the standards of these
regulations. Where pavement widths greater than those specified are deemed
necessary by the City Manager and approved by the Commission, the city shall
bear the extra cost of providing the width beyond the requirements of these
regulations. Street widths are specified in Tables 4 in §
151.115 and Table 5 in §
151.116.
(Prior Code, § 23.05.23) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.128 STREET SUB-GRADE.
   (A)   The sub-grade shall be free of sod, vegetative or organic matter, soft
clay and objectionable materials for a depth of at least two feet below the
finish surface.
   (B)   The sub-grade shall be properly rolled, shaped and compacted to the
satisfaction of the City Manager and in accordance with the current edition of
ODOT’s Construction and Material Specifications.
   (C)   All soft areas shall be removed and replaced with suitable granular
approved by the City Manager. Backfills over sewers, culverts and underground
utilities in the roadway shall also meet the specifications in the current
edition of ODOT’s Construction and Material Specifications.
   (D)   Sub-base grade tolerance shall be no more than one inch in 16 feet,
and shall be subject to the approval of the City Manager.
   (E)   Where granular subbase is not a part of the pavement design, and rock,
shale or coal is encountered; the sub-grade shall be excavated to a depth of
two feet below the surface of the sub-grade for the cross section width of the
roadway between points one foot beyond the shoulders. The additional excavation
shall be filled with suitable embankment material.
   (F)   Where granular sub-base is a part of the pavement design, and rock,
shale or coal is encountered; the sub-grade shall be excavated to a depth of 18
inches below the sub-base for the cross section width of the roadway between
points one foot beyond the shoulders. The additional excavation shall be filled
with suitable embankment material.
   (G)   Approval of the sub-grade shall be obtained from the City Manager
prior to the application of the base course.
(Prior Code, § 23.05.24) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.129 STREET BASE COURSE.
   (A)   The sub-divider has the option of using any of the following base
courses, based on recommendations of the City Manager as to soil and traffic
conditions: aggregate, bituminous aggregate, asphalt concrete or equally
suitable base course.
   (B)   Thickness shall be as listed in Table 9 in §
151.135, based upon the physical properties of the base course used and the
physical properties of the roadbed.
(Prior Code, § 23.05.25)
§ 151.130 STREET SURFACE COURSE.
   (A)   The surface course shall be constructed using either two layers of
sealed aggregate, asphalt concrete, bituminous mix or Portland concrete cement.
Specific material and thickness recommendations shall be determined, as listed
in Table 9 in §
151.135.
   (B)   The City Manager may waive surface course requirements in cases where
streets within a proposed subdivision plat connect to a public road whose
surface is of lesser material than that required by these regulations and where
no specific plan, within two years of approval of final plat, exists for
upgrading said public road surface. However, streets within the proposed
subdivision shall meet or exceed the surface material of said public road.
Waiver may not be granted where the proposed density meets or exceeds medium-
low density residential, as defined in these regulations.
(Prior Code, § 23.05.26)
§ 151.131 PORTLAND CEMENT CONCRETE PAVEMENT.
   (A)   If the sub-divider elects to construct streets totally out of Portland
cement concrete or if such pavement is required by the City Manager,
thicknesses of seven inches for local and collector streets; seven and one-half
inches for minor arterial streets; and eight inches for major arterial,
commercial and industrial streets shall be required, and shall meet the current
Plain Portland Cement Concrete Pavement Specifications of ODOT.
   (B)   The Commission may require pavements of greater thickness, upon the
recommendation of the City Manager, based upon his or her evaluation of the
sub-grade, traffic and wheel load conditions.
(Prior Code, § 23.05.27) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.132 FULL-DEPTH ASPHALT PAVEMENT.
   Table 9 in §
151.135 states required thickness for full-depth asphalt pavement.
(Prior Code, § 23.05.28)
§ 151.133 STREET CURBS AND GUTTERS.
   The requirements for curbs and gutters will vary according to the character
of the area and the density of development. In areas with substantial flash
flooding or heavy rain run-off, curbs shall be required on all streets designed
for areas where the existing or anticipated residential density of the area
surrounding the proposed subdivision equals or exceeds three dwelling units per
net acre. In commercial developments, or where other similar intensive urban
uses exist or are anticipated, curbs shall be required. Where curbs exist on
abutting properties, their extension shall be required throughout the proposed
subdivision. Curbs and gutters shall be constructed in conformance with the
current Construction and Material Specifications of ODOT.
(Prior Code, § 23.05.29) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.134 OPEN DITCHES AND SLOPES.
   Open ditch construction for roadside drainage shall be permitted in low-
density development and constructed according to ODOT specifications. Minimum
depth of ditches shall be two feet below the edge of pavement, and one foot
minimum at the top of hill and toe of bank. All ditches shall be protected
against erosion. Ditches shall be designed according to standards and
specifications in Rainwater and Land Development, Second Edition, 1996, State
Department of Natural Resources, hereinafter referred to as “ODNR”, or any
later version that is published as an update.
(Prior Code, § 23.05.30) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.135 STREET CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   Street construction design is based upon the California bearing ratio,
hereinafter referred to as “CBR”, value of the soil sub-grade. Where more than
one soil type of varying CBR value occurs on the proposed street, design shall
be made on the basis of the lowest CBR. While actual on-site testing is
recognized as a proper method of determining CBR values, the use of soil types
may be utilized in lieu of on-site testing as a satisfactory substitute. For
purpose of street construction standards, Table 9 below shows three
classifications of soil with its engineering design calculation.
Table 9: Minimum Pavement Composition (Thickness Expressed in Inches)
    Local Street Collector Street Minor Arterial Street  Major Arterial and
    (n=5)*       (n=10)           (n=35)                 Industrial (n=75)
CBR 3-6 6-10 10+ 3-6 6-10 10+     3-6 6-10 10+           3-6 6-10 10+
Table 9: Minimum Pavement Composition (Thickness Expressed in Inches)
                 Local Street      Collector Street  Minor Arterial    Major Arterial
                 (n=5)*            (n=10)            Street (n=35)     and Industrial
                                                                       (n=75)
CBR              3-6   6-10  10+   3-6   6-10  10+   3-6   6-10  10+   3-6   6-10  10+
Pavement    ODOT
Composition Item
Aggregate   304  6”  6”  5”  9”  5”  5”
Base        301  3.5”3”  3”  3”  3”  1.5”
            448                    1.5”1.5”
Deep        301  5”  4.5”4.5”                                    8.5”7”  6”
Strength    402  1.5”1.5”1.5”7.5”5.5”4.5”7.5”5.5”4.5”1.251.251.25”
Asphalt     448  1.5”1.5”1.5”1.5”1.5”1.5”1.5”1.5”1.5”1.251.251.25”
Base
Concrete    305  6”  6”  6”  6”  6”  6”  6”  6”  6”  6”  6”  6”
Base        448  1.251.251.251.251.251.251.501.251.251.501.501.50”
Concrete    452  7”  7”  7”  7”  7”  7”  7.5”7.5”7.5”8”  8”  8”
Pavement
Note: The number in parentheses (after the street type) is the design traffic number and
is the “n” number of 18,000 pound equivalent loads per day. When it is possible this
loading will be exceeded, the County Engineer or City Manager may elect to change the
roadway design specifications.
LEGEND
C.B.R. = California bearing ratio (a measure of soil bearing capacity)
301 = Bituminous aggregate base
304 = Aggregate base
305 = Portland cement concrete base (5.5 bag mix)
448 = Asphalt concrete
407 = Tack coat (RS-1)
408 = Prime coat (RC-30, MC-70, RT-2, RS-1 or RS-2)
452 = Plain Portland cement concrete pavement (6.5 bag mix)
*The sub-divider may elect to place 8 inches of 304 and a sealed surface that meets the
following specifications:
Bottom seal - 40 pounds #67 stone per SY, rolled and compacted
0.6 gallon of 150XL emulsion or equivalent per SY
Top seal - 25 pounds #8 stone per SY, rolled and compacted
0.4 gallon of 150 XL emulsion or equivalent per SY
Berms shall consist of ODOT 617
 
(Prior Code, § 23.05.31) Penalty, see §
151.999
UTILITIES DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
§ 151.150 GENERAL.
   A professional engineer, licensed in the state, shall design any plans for
public water supply, storm water control and disposal and wastewater collection
and disposal facilities.
(Prior Code, § 23.06.01)
§ 151.151 WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   Where a public water supply is reasonably accessible or required
because of groundwater pollution problems, the subdivision shall be provided
with a complete water distribution system including a connection for each lot.
Public water distribution and public well systems shall meet the requirements
of the OEPA, as cited in the Ohio Revised Code.
   (B)   Where public water supply is not available, as determined by the
city’s and the county’s Health Department, or not required, the sub-divider
shall supply acceptable evidence of the availability of water. The sub-divider
may be required to drill one or more test wells in the area to be platted.
Location and construction of a private water supply shall meet the requirements
of the Ohio Revised Code and the Ohio Administrative Code. Wells located in
floodplain areas shall be constructed so as to be sealed from the entry of
floodwaters. In all cases where it has been determined that individual water
supplies from private wells are not feasible, a public water distribution
system shall be required.
   (C)   Private water wells and other water distribution systems may be
accepted for maintenance and operation by the city if the ownership is vested
to the city and if the water distribution system has been constructed according
to the specifications and approved by the city.
(Prior Code, § 23.06.02) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.152 FIRE PROTECTION.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ADEQUATE PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. Any existing water system that is within a
reasonably accessible distance as determined by the city. Adequate water lines
consist of six-inch or larger diameter piping. A four-inch line may be adequate
but only if the local water authority and the Fire Chief determine that minimum
fire flow can be met.
      BLOCK. Any continuous road frontage in excess of 500 feet, or any
continuous road frontage between two perpendicular roads.
      DRY HYDRANT. A 1,000 GPM drafting connection tied into a pond, cistern or
other suitable body of water. These devices shall be installed according to
NRCS and NFPA standards and include a four and one-half inch port with a four
and one-half inch to tow and one-half inch adapter and cap.
      FIRE HYDRANT. A device with two two and one-half inches outlets and one
four and one-half inch outlet, with all threads being right hand NST.
      FLUSHING PORT. A device with a two and one-half inch outlet with right
hand NST threads.
      MINIMUM FIRE FLOW. For residential subdivisions, the minimum flow must be
at least 500 gallons per minute (GPM) with a residual pressure of at least 20
pounds per square inch (PSI). For commercial and industrial subdivisions, the
minimum flow must be at least 1,000 GPM, additional hydrant flow may be
required due to fireloading of the structure. Hydrant spacing for commercial
and industrial subdivisions shall be no more than 300 feet between hydrants or
as determined by the Fire Chief.
      NATIONAL FIRE PROTECTION ASSOCIATION. Herein referred to as “NFPA”.
      NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE. Herein referred to as “NRCS”.
   (B)   Requirements.
      (1)   Fire hydrants shall be provided by the sub-divider in all
subdivisions with adequate water supplies. Dry hydrants and flushing devices
shall also be provided by the sub-divider when deemed appropriate by the city.
      (2)   The make of control valves, lines, connections and the installation
procedure shall conform to the requirements of the local water authority. The
minimum size of any line serving a fire hydrant shall not be less than six
inches in diameter, and should be a looped, circulating line. In the event that
a four-inch line has been determined to be adequate in accordance with division
(A)(2) above, then the minimum size shall be four inches.
      (3)   The proposed fire protection plan shall require the written
approval of the Fire Chief or person responsible for fire protection in the
political subdivision in which the plat is located.
      (4)   Size and location of water lines shall be approved by the Fire
Chief and the City Manager.
   (C)   Placement of hydrants and specifications.
      (1)   Fire hydrants should be located between property lines and curbs.
The large outlet shall be facing or parallel to the street with the center of
the opening not less than 16 inches above grade level.
      (2)   All hydrants should be no more than six feet from the edge of an
improved road surface. In the event that damage from traffic is a serious
concern, the sub-divider may be required to erect a barricade to protect the
hydrant.
      (3)   All inhabited residences and all commercial and industrial
structures shall be within 500 feet of a hydrant as measured along the roadways
or a distance determined by the Fire Chief.
      (4)   Hydrants shall be placed at the corners of all blocks exceeding 500
feet in length. For blocks that exceed 1,000 feet in length, hydrants shall be
spaced so as to maintain the 500-foot coverage area. For blocks less than 500
feet in length, a hydrant shall be placed at the corner most accessible to the
nearest fire station. Hydrants shall also be required at the entrance of all
cul-de-sacs exceeding 500 feet in length.
      (5)   A dry hydrant may replace a fire hydrant whenever possible. Dry
hydrants must at least meet division (A) above, division (B) above, this
division (C) but division (D) below may be slightly varied to accommodate
terrain limitations.
      (6)   Fire hydrants will conform to the following specifications:
         (a)   One and one-half inch pentagon operating nut;
         (b)   Turn to the left to open hydrant;
         (c)   Two two and one-half inch outlets on each side with national
standard threads and caps chained to the hydrant;
         (d)   One four and one-half inch outlet on the front with national
standard threads and caps chained to the hydrant;
         (e)   Five and one-quarter inch piping from the water line to the
hydrant;
         (f)   Six inch mechanical joint base;
         (g)   Self draining when hydrant is turned off, with drain hole;
         (h)   Have a working pressure of 200 psi and test pressure of 400 psi;
and
         (i)   Upper barrel can be rotated 360 degrees.
   (D)   No adequate public water.
      (1)   When adequate public water is not available, and/or the minimum
fire flow cannot be met, then the minimum spacing between inhabited residences
and commercial or industrial structures shall not be less than 100 feet.
      (2)   Within a 500 foot range of a dry hydrant, the minimum spacing may
be reduced to 30 feet.
      (3)   For smaller public water supplies that do not meet minimum fire
flows, the installation of flushing devices shall be located as outlined in
Placement of Hydrants and Specifications, 1-4.
      (4)   If a commercial building of more than 3,000 square feet is erected
and there is no public water source, the building will have a cistern or pond
on the site at a location authorized by the local Fire Department. The cistern
or pond will have a capacity of 15,000 gallons of water and a dry hydrant
connection will be installed for the Fire Department use. The specifications
for the dry hydrant connection will conform to the definition for DRY HYDRANT
in division (A) above. The cistern or pond will be constructed so that the
local Fire Department can also discharge water into the cistern or pond for use
during a fire.
(Prior Code, § 23.06.03) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.153 SANITARY SEWERS.
   (A)   Where an adequate public sanitary sewer system is reasonably
accessible in the determination of the County Health District; public sanitary
sewers shall be installed to adequately serve all lots. Public sewer system
extensions, including lateral connections, shall meet the requirements and
standards of the OEPA and the city. Sanitary sewers and storm sewers shall not
be combined in the same line.
   (B)   Where a public sanitary sewer system is not reasonably accessible, the
sub-divider may provide a central treatment plant for the subdivision, provided
that such central treatment plant is installed in accordance with OEPA and
county health requirements. Lots may be served by individual disposal systems
only with approval of appropriate OEPA and county health officials. Where the
installation of individual disposal systems is considered, the absorptive
ability of the soil, surface drainage, groundwater level and topography shall
be the criteria used for determining whether or not the installation of
individual systems is permissible.
   (C)   When individual, on-lot sewage systems are approved; each lot so
served shall be of a size and shape to accommodate the necessary length of a
leach field at a safe distance from and at a lower elevation than the proposed
building(s). Adequate area for replacement leach fields will usually be
required. On-lot systems shall be designed to retain effluent on the lot as
much as possible. Easements across abutting landowners may be required for the
necessary drainage of treated sewage effluent.
(Prior Code, § 23.06.04) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.154 DRAINAGE AND STORM SEWERS.
   All storm drainage design shall be planned and executed so as to preserve
natural topographic features and vegetative cover, to minimize change to
existing topography and to preserve natural drainage systems.
   (A)   Where an adequate public storm sewer is available at the plat
boundary, the sub-divider shall construct a storm sewer system and connect with
such storm sewer line. If such a storm sewer system is not accessible, natural
drainage channels with easements of at least 30 feet in width shall be
provided, as determined by the City Manager and approved by the Planning
Commission. Storm drainage from lots, including drain tile around basements,
shall not be permitted to discharge into any sanitary sewer facility, but shall
connect to an adequate drainage outlet.
   (B)   The sub-divider shall construct all necessary facilities including
underground pipe, inlets, catch basins or open drainage ditches, as determined
by the City Manager, to provide for the adequate disposal of subsurface and
surface water and maintenance of natural drainage courses. The best available
technology shall be used to minimize off-site storm water runoff, increase on-
site filtration, simulate natural drainage systems and minimize off-site
discharge of pollutants to ground and surface water. Best available technology
may include measures such as retention basins, recharge trenches, porous paving
and piping, contour terraces and swales. Storm water management shall follow
the standards established in Rainwater and Land Development, Second Edition,
1996, ODNR, or any later version that is published as an update. Subdivision
development shall not increase the rate of runoff and an increase in the volume
of runoff shall require a reduction in the rate of runoff. NRCS TR-55, or other
suitable engineering method, shall be used to determine flow rate. Manning’s
equation, or other suitable engineering method, shall be used to determine
velocity.
   (C)   When necessary, outlet ditches of closed sewers of an approved type
and size shall be required as part of the construction. If the same is across
private property, rights-of-way or easements shall be obtained by the sub-
divider for construction and future maintenance. These rights-of-way or
easements shall be shown on the construction plans. The channel downstream of
the subdivision shall be improved adequately by the sub-divider to convey the
storm runoff from the subdivision and across the adjacent property owner so
that damages from flooding are minimized. Whenever possible, post-development
drainage patterns shall be the same as pre-development drainage patterns.
   (D)   The sub-divider shall guard against the creation or continuation of
swampy areas or stagnant pools, unless they are a component of a designed
wetlands open space. The City Manager may require fill, swale and/or channel
improvements in order to forestall such problems.
(Prior Code, § 23.06.05) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.155 ELECTRIC, GAS AND TELEPHONE IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Electric and telephone service shall be provided within each
subdivision. Gas service may be required where reasonably accessible.
Telephone, electric and street lighting wires, conduits and cables shall be
constructed underground except in cases where the City Manager determines that
topographic, bedrock or underground water conditions would result in excessive
costs to the sub-divider.
   (B)   Overhead utility lines, where non-existent and where permitted, shall
be located in an area mutually agreed to by the City Manager, utility company
and sub-divider. The width of the easement per lot shall be not less than ten
feet and the total easement width shall be not less than 20 feet.
   (C)   Whenever any two or more of the following: water line, storm water
line, sanitary sewer line, electric line or telephone line are placed
underground in the same utility easement, the total easement width shall be not
less than 20 feet.
   (D)   Whenever a major gas transmission line is on or adjacent to property
proposed to be subdivided, adequate measures shall be taken to ensure that all
buildable sites are at a minimum safe distance from the transmission line
easement, as recommended by the gas transmission company and the State Public
Utilities Commission, hereinafter referred to as “PUCO”.
(Prior Code, § 23.06.06) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.156 OVER-SIZE AND OFF-SITE IMPROVEMENTS.
   The City Manager may require that utilities, pavements and other land
improvements for the proposed subdivision be designed over-sized, and/or with
extensions provided, to serve nearby land which is an integral part of the
neighborhood service or drainage area. For all utility systems within the city,
the city shall pay the difference between the cost of the utility necessary to
service the platted area and any larger sized utility connection required to
service the area beyond the limits of the plat.
(Prior Code, § 23.06.07)
ENVIRONMENTAL AND LANDSCAPING DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
§ 151.170 PURPOSE.
   Protection of existing environmental features and provision of landscaping
provides for an attractive development. Minimization of soil loss, flood
hazard, noise pollution and visual nuisance can be accomplished through good
site planning. Additionally, protection of existing vegetation, drainage
patterns and topography can help reduce construction costs. Planned landscaping
features will add to property values and provide benefits to future residents
of the subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 23.07.01)
§ 151.171 PUBLIC SITES, OPEN SPACE AND RECREATION.
   (A)   Where a park, playground, school, public access to water frontage or
other proposed public property is located in whole or in part in a proposed
subdivision, the Planning Commission may request the dedication of such area
within the subdivision or that provision be made for the acquisition of such
area by the proper agency within a mutually acceptable period.
   (B)   The Planning Commission, in conjunction with the City Manager, may
require that land be conveyed to the city for park purposes. The Planning
Commission may require the sub-divider to provide for creation of a homeowners’
association that will be responsible for dedicated open space maintenance. All
subdivision residents will be members of the homeowners’ association. The
Planning Commission will review proposed association bylaws as part of the
subdivision review process.
   (C)   Where a large-scale subdivision or planned unit development is
proposed, the Planning Commission shall require that consideration be given to
sites for schools, parks, playgrounds and other such areas for common use, and
that provisions be made for such reservation or acquisition by the proper
agency.
   (D)   The Planning Commission reserves the right to deny approval to a
subdivision if such subdivision disregards the preservation of natural features
such as wooded areas, watercourses, geologic formations, riparian areas and
areas of natural, historical or prehistorical significance which add value to a
residential development and the community.
(Prior Code, § 23.07.02)
§ 151.172 FLOOD AREAS AND STORM DRAINAGE DITCHES.
   (A)   All subdivisions shall comply with Chapter 152 on file in the City
Manager’s office or the flood damage reduction standards of the political
subdivision of jurisdiction. Appropriate measures shall be taken to elevate
buildings to required levels. A proposed subdivision may be denied if access to
the subdivision is periodically blocked by floodwaters.
   (B)   Flood control or storm drainage facilities shall be provided as
follows.
      (1)   Access to flood control or storm drainage ditches and channels
shall be provided by easements of not less than 30 feet in width, 20 feet of
which is located on one side of the flood control or drainage ditch, channel or
similar facilities.
      (2)   Flood control or storm drainage easements containing only
underground facilities shall have a minimum width of 20 feet.
(Prior Code, § 23.07.03) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.173 SOIL EROSION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In the development of a subdivision, the sub-divider shall apply best
management practices, with both temporary and permanent measures, during all
phases of clearing, grading and construction in order to minimize the amount of
sediment flowing into a public or private surface ditch, subsurface drainage,
stream, river or lake, or onto an adjoining property. Sediment control shall
follow the standards and specifications in Rainwater and Land Development,
Second Edition, 1996, ODNR, or any later version that is published as an
update.
   (B)   When a proposed development area consists of one or more acres of
earth-disturbing activities, the owner of record shall develop and submit to
the OEPA for review and approval, a soil erosion and sedimentation control
plan. Such a plan shall contain sufficient information, drawings and notes to
describe how soil erosion and off-site sedimentation will be kept to a minimum,
both during and after construction. The soil and erosion control plan shall
have OEPA approval before the final plat is submitted to the Planning
Commission.
   (C)   When a proposed development area involves less than one acre of earth-
disturbing activities, it is not necessary to submit a soil erosion and
sedimentation control plan; however, the sub-divider shall comply with the
standards and specifications in Rainwater and Land Development, Second Edition,
1996, ODNR, or any later version that is published as an update. Upon request,
submittal of specific soil erosion and sedimentation prevention measures to be
or being implemented may be required to determine compliance.
   (D)   Soil erosion and sedimentation control plans shall be certified by a
professional engineer registered in the state before being submitted to the
City Manager for review and approval.
(Prior Code, § 23.07.04) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.174 LANDSCAPE PLAN.
   A landscape plan shall be submitted for planned unit developments and
commercial, industrial, medium-low, medium, medium-high and high-density
residential subdivisions, unless an exception is granted by the Planning
Commission pursuant to these regulations. The landscape plan shall identify
existing and proposed trees, shrubs and ground covers; natural features such as
rock outcroppings; and other landscaping elements. Where existing plants are to
be retained, the applicant shall include in the plans proposed methods of
protecting them during construction. Careful thought shall be given as to how
best to preserve existing plant material at the site. Landscaping may include
plant materials such as trees, shrubs, ground covers, perennials and annuals,
and other materials such as rocks, water, sculpture, art, walls, fences, paving
materials and street furniture.
(Prior Code, § 23.07.05)
§ 151.175 SITE PROTECTION AND GENERAL PLANTING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Topsoil preservation. Topsoil shall be temporarily stored and later
redistributed on all regraded surfaces so as to provide at least four inches of
even topsoil cover to all disturbed areas of the development and shall be
stabilized by seeding or planting.
   (B)   Removal of debris. All stumps and other tree parts, litter, brush,
weeds, excess or scrap building materials or other debris shall be removed from
the site and disposed of in accordance with the law. If trees and limbs are
reduced to chips, they may be used as mulch in landscaped areas, subject to
approval by the City Manager.
   (C)   Protection of existing plantings. Maximum effort should be made to
save fine or exceptional plant specimens. No material or temporary soil
deposits shall be placed within the dripline of shrubs and trees designated on
the landscape plan to be retained. Protective barriers or tree wells shall be
installed around each plant and/or group of plants that are to remain on the
site. Barriers shall not be supported by the plants they are protecting, but
shall be self-supporting. They shall be a minimum of four feet high and
constructed of a durable material that will last until construction is
completed. Snow fences and silt fences are examples of acceptable barriers.
   (D)   Slope plantings. Landscaping of all cuts and fills and/or terraces
shall be sufficient to prevent erosion, and all roadway slopes steeper than one
foot vertical to three feet horizontal shall be planted with ground cover
appropriate for the land use and for the soil conditions and water
availability.
   (E)   Additional landscaping. In residential developments, besides the
screening and street trees required, additional plantings or landscaping
elements may be required throughout the subdivision where necessary for climate
control, privacy or other reasons in accordance with the landscape plan
approved by the Planning Commission taking cost constraints into consideration.
In nonresidential developments, all areas of the site not occupied by buildings
and required improvements shall be landscaped by the planting of grass or other
ground cover, shrubs and trees as part of the landscape plan approved by the
Planning Commission.
   (F)   Planting specifications. Deciduous trees shall have at least a two-
inch caliper at planting. Size of evergreens and shrubs shall be allowed to
vary depending on setting and type of shrub. Only nursery-grown plant materials
shall be acceptable, and all trees, shrubs and ground covers shall be planted
according to accepted horticultural standards. Dead and dying plants shall be
replaced by the sub-divider during the following planting season.
   (G)   Plant species. The plant species selected shall be hardy for the
climate in the city and appropriate in terms of function and size.
(Prior Code, § 23.07.06) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.176 SHADE TREES.
   (A)   Shade trees shall be installed on both sides of all streets in
accordance with the approved landscape plan. Subdivisions planned for wooded
sites will not need shade trees planted along roadways. When trees are planted
at predetermined intervals along streets, spacing shall depend tree size at
maturity as follows in Table 10 below:
 
Table 10: Spacing Between Shade Trees
Growth Diameter (Feet) Planting Interval (Feet)
Large trees (40+)      50 - 70
Medium trees (30 - 40) 40 - 50
Small trees (to 30)    30 - 40
 
   (B)   When the spacing interval exceeds 40 feet, small ornamental trees can
be placed between the larger trees. If a street canopy effect is desired, trees
may be planted closer together, following the recommendations of a registered
landscape architect, or an ODNR urban forester. Tree plantings shall be
coordinated with utilities, roadways, sidewalks, sight easements or
streetlights. Tree location, landscaping design and tree spacing shall be
approved by the Commission as part of the landscape plan.
(Prior Code, § 23.07.07) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.177 BUFFERING.
   (A)   Buffering is the provision of an area between different land uses that
attempts to minimize negative environmental impacts, such as noise and light
pollution, from one to the other. Buffers shall provide a year-round visual
screen in order to minimize adverse impacts. They may consist of fencing,
evergreens, berms, rocks, boulders, mounds or combinations thereof to achieve
the same objectives.
   (B)   Every sub-divider shall provide sufficient buffering when
topographical or other barriers do not provide reasonable screening and when
the Planning Commission determines that there is a need to shield:
      (1)   Neighboring properties from any adverse external effects of a
development; or
      (2)   The development from negative impacts of adjacent uses such as
commercial developments, streets or railroads.
   (C)   In medium-low to high-density developments, when building design and
siding do not provide visual and audio privacy, the Planning Commission may
require landscaping, fences or walls to screen dwelling units for privacy.
Buffers shall be measured from side and rear property lines, excluding
driveways. Plant materials shall be sufficiently large and planted in such a
fashion that a year-round screen at least eight feet in height shall be
produced within three growing seasons. All plantings shall be installed
according to accepted horticultural standards.
 
Table 11: Buffer Strip Width
All other land uses                                 25 feet width minimum
Parking lots, garbage collection, utility areas and 5 feet width minimum
loading and unloading areas
 
(Prior Code, § 23.07.08) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.178 MAINTENANCE.
   Plantings shall be watered regularly and in a manner appropriate for the
specific plant species through the first growing season, and dead and dying
plants shall be replaced by the applicant during the next planting season. No
buildings, structures, storage of materials or parking shall be permitted
within any buffer area. Buffer areas shall be maintained and kept free of all
debris, rubbish, weeds and tall grass.
(Prior Code, § 23.07.09) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.179 PARKING LOTS LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   In parking lots, at least 5% of the interior parking area shall be
landscaped with plantings and shall include at least one tree for each eight
spaces. Parking lot street frontage screening and perimeter screening shall be
a minimum of five feet wide. Planting required within the parking lot is
exclusive of other planting requirements, such as shade trees planted along the
street.
   (B)   Landscaping should be located in protected areas, such as along
walkways, in center islands, at the ends of bays or between parking stalls. All
landscaping in parking areas and on the street frontage shall be placed so that
it will not obstruct sight distance. Plantings in parking areas and on streets
shall pay particular attention to sun position during the summer months so that
maximum cooling effects can be gained from well-placed trees.
   (C)   A mixture of hardy flowering and/or decorative evergreen and deciduous
trees may be planted. The evergreens should be used along the perimeter of the
lot for screening, and the deciduous trees for shade within the lot. The area
between trees shall be mulched or planted with shrubs or ground cover. Any area
that will be under the overhang of vehicles shall be mulched or covered with
paving material.
(Prior Code, § 23.07.10) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.180 PAVING MATERIALS.
   (A)   Design and choice of paving materials used in pedestrian areas shall
consider such factors as function, climate, user characteristics, availability,
cost, maintenance, glare, drainage, noise, appearance and compatibility with
surroundings.
   (B)   Acceptable materials shall include, but are not limited to, concrete,
brick, cement pavers, asphalt and stone.
(Prior Code, § 23.07.11) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.181 WALLS AND FENCES.
   Walls and fences may be erected for privacy, screening, separation, security
or erosion control. The design and materials used shall be functional and
compatible with existing and proposed site architecture. No fence or wall shall
be so constructed or installed as to constitute a hazard to traffic or safety.
(Prior Code, § 23.07.12) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.182 STREET FURNITURE.
   Street furniture, such as trash receptacles, benches and phone booths, shall
be located and sized in accordance with their function. The different street
furniture components shall be compatible in form, material and finish. Design
and materials shall be coordinated with existing and proposed site
architecture. Selection of street furniture shall take into consideration
functionality and durability.
(Prior Code, § 23.07.13) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.183 LIGHTING.
   Exterior lighting shall be directed towards the ground with shields that
prevent light from escaping away from the intended object or area to be lit.
(Prior Code, § 23.07.14) Penalty, see §
151.999
REQUIREMENTS FOR CONSTRUCTION OF IMPROVEMENTS
§ 151.195 IMPROVEMENTS AND COST ESTIMATION INFORMATION.
   (A)   Before the signing of the final plat, all applicants shall be required
to complete, to the satisfaction of the city and the appropriate County Health
Department or other appropriate agency, all the streets, sanitary improvements
and other public improvements, including lot improvements on the individual
lots, as listed on the final plat and engineering plans. When required
improvements are not completed, the sub-divider shall ensure their completion
with a performance guarantee acceptable to the Planning Commission and the City
Manager.
   (B)   All required improvements shall be made by the sub-divider, at his or
her expense, and cost estimates for materials and labor shall be provided by a
professional engineer licensed in the state.
   (C)   The sub-divider shall dedicate public improvements to the city, free
and clear of all liens and encumbrances on the dedicated property and public
improvements.
(Prior Code, § 23.08.01) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.196 PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE FOR INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE OF
IMPROVEMENTS.
   To guarantee the construction and/or maintenance of required improvements
prior to the approval and recording of the final plat, the sub-divider shall be
required to provide a performance guarantee in one or a combination of the
following arrangements.
   (A)   Performance bond, certified check or irrevocable letter of credit.
      (1)   The sub-divider shall post a bond, executed by a surety company or
a certified check or irrevocable letter of credit equal to the estimated cost
plus 10% of the required improvements. The bond shall be in favor of the city
and shall guarantee construction of the improvements according to the plans and
specifications approved by the Planning Commission. The term of the bond shall
not exceed one year plus a two-year maintenance period for a total of three
years. The City Manager may grant an extension where due cause can be shown.
      (2)   Failure of the developer to maintain the bond until released shall
not void the bonding requirement.
      (3)   Under no circumstances shall the required performance bond, cash
deposit or irrevocable letter of credit be tied to or be considered a portion
of the sub-divider’s financing for the development.
   (B)   Deposit. The sub-divider may make a deposit with the County Treasurer,
with a responsible escrow agent or with a trust company. The deposit shall be
money or negotiable bonds in an amount equal to the estimated cost plus 10% of
the required improvements. If a cash deposit is made, an agreement may be
executed to provide payments to the contractor or the sub-divider from the
deposit as the work progresses and is approved by the responsible county
official.
(Prior Code, § 23.08.02)
§ 151.197 TEMPORARY IMPROVEMENTS.
   The applicant shall build and pay for all temporary improvements required by
the Planning Commission and shall maintain those temporary improvements for the
period specified by the Planning Commission. Prior to construction of any
temporary facility or improvement, the sub-divider shall file with the City
Manager a separate performance guarantee in an amount equal to the estimated
cost of the temporary facilities, which shall ensure that the temporary
facilities will be properly constructed, maintained and removed.
(Prior Code, § 23.08.03)
§ 151.198 EXTENSION OF TIME.
   If the construction or installation of any improvements or facility, for
which guarantee has been made by the sub-divider in the form of a performance
bond, cash deposit or irrevocable letter of credit, is not completed within one
year from the date of final plat recording, the sub-divider may request the
City Manager to grant an extension of six months, provided he or she can show
reasonable cause for inability to complete said improvements within the
required one year. The request shall be accompanied by a revised cost estimate
of construction.
(Prior Code, § 23.08.04)
§ 151.199 FAILURE TO COMPLETE IMPROVEMENTS.
   In case the sub-divider fails to complete the required public improvements
work within such time period as required by the conditions or guarantees as
outlined above, the City Manager may proceed to have such work completed and
reimburse itself for the cost thereof by appropriating the cash deposit,
certified check, surety bond or by drawing upon the letter of credit, or shall
take the necessary steps to require performance by the bonding company.
(Prior Code, § 23.08.05)
§ 151.200 PROGRESSIVE INSTALLATION.
   After the preliminary plan of a proposed subdivision has been approved by
the Planning Commission, the sub-divider may improve a part of the entire area
and submit a final plat for that improved portion to the Planning Commission
for approval.
(Prior Code, § 23.08.06)
§ 151.201 DEFERRAL OR WAIVER OF REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission may defer or waive, at the time of final plat
approval and subject to appropriate conditions, the provision of any or all
public improvements as, in its judgment, are not requisite in the interest of
the public health, safety or welfare, or which are inappropriate because of the
inadequate or nonexistence of connecting facilities. Any determination to defer
or waive the provision of certain public improvements must be expressly made on
the record.
   (B)   Whenever it is deemed necessary by the Planning Commission to defer
the construction of any improvement, the sub-divider shall pay his or her share
of the costs of the future improvements to the local government prior to the
signing of the final subdivision plat by the City Council. The sub-divider may
provide a separate performance bond, cash deposit or irrevocable letter of
credit for the completion of the deferred improvements upon demand of the local
government.
(Prior Code, § 23.08.07)
§ 151.202 INSPECTION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   The City Manager shall coordinate with the appropriate County
Health Department or other appropriate agency to provide for inspection of
required improvements during construction and ensure their satisfactory
completion. A professional engineer, licensed in the state and under contract
with the sub-divider, shall supervise inspection of the construction
improvements and shall sign and certify inspection reports provided by the City
Manager.
      (2)   The City Manager shall be notified at least 24 hours in advance of
placement of road base material, culvert cover material and road surface
material. The City Manager may assess fees for any inspection performed by his
or her staff. An inspection schedule shall be finalized by the City Manager and
sub-divider before any work begins.
      (3)   If, in the opinion of the City Manager, installations are improper
or inadequate, the Inspector shall issue a stop order.
   (B)   Failure to comply with the City Manager’s recommendations during
construction shall be deemed a violation of these regulations, subject to
having the approved final plat invalidated by the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 23.08.08)
§ 151.203 ACCEPTANCE OF STREETS, STORM DRAINAGE, SANITARY SEWER AND WATER
DISTRIBUTION IMPROVEMENTS FOR USE AND MAINTENANCE BY THE PUBLIC.
   (A)   Upon completion of all improvements, the sub-divider shall request
that the City Manager perform an
inspection.
   (B)   After the inspection, the City Manager will do one of the following:
      (1)   Issue a letter to the City Council, with a copy to the sub-divider,
recommending the start of a two-year maintenance period;
      (2)   Issue a letter to the sub-divider, with a copy to the City Council,
listing items of work necessary to accomplish satisfactory completion of the
improvements;
      (3)   (a)   The two-year maintenance period begins when the City Manager
officially acknowledge the receipt of the maintenance guarantee. During the
two-year maintenance period, the sub-divider shall be responsible for
maintenance of all improvements, including snow removal and grass mowing, and
shall repair all failures due to faulty construction as soon as they become
apparent. The sub-divider shall also make repairs due to erosion or abuse by
utility companies installing utilities and shall repair all failure, for all
other reasons, during the two-year maintenance period. The sub-divider shall
restore the improvements at the end of the maintenance period. The maintenance
guarantee shall remain in effect until final acceptance of improvements by the
City Manager. Before the City Manager will release the maintenance guarantee,
the sub-divider shall submit a sworn statement that all bills and financial
obligations incurred for maintenance or restoration of the subdivision
improvements have been fully paid. After the two-year maintenance period, the
sub-divider shall, after restoring all improvements to an acceptable condition,
and after all monies are paid to contractors, request that the City Manager
perform an inspection for final acceptance.
         (b)   After the inspection, the Planning Commission will do one of the
following:
            1.   Issue a letter to the City Council, with a copy to the sub-
divider, recommending final acceptance of the improvements and release of
maintenance guarantee; and
            2.   Issue a letter to the sub-divider, with a copy to the City
Council, listing items of work necessary to accomplish before the
recommendation for final acceptance can be made.
      (4)   The City Council will vote to accept the improvements after the
City Manager has recommended final acceptance. Upon acceptance of the public
improvements, the City Manager will file an affidavit with the appropriate
County Recorder stating the public improvements on the referenced plat have
been accepted. The County Recorder will record the affidavit and note it on the
referenced plat.
(Prior Code, § 23.08.09)
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
§ 151.215 GENERAL STATEMENT.
   The planned unit development is a contiguous area to be planned, developed,
operated and maintained as a single entity containing one or more structures to
accommodate residential, commercial and/or industrial uses. The procedures for
approval of planned unit developments are subject to the approval procedure
specified by §§
151.040 through
151.072.
(Prior Code, § 23.09.01)
§ 151.216 PURPOSE OF PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   Planned unit development of land may be permitted in order to provide a
means for a more desirable physical development pattern than would be possible
through the strict application of zoning regulations and subdivision
regulations. The Planning Commission will permit variety and flexibility in
land development to encourage the sub-divider to adjust design to irregular
topography, economize in the construction of utilities and create architectural
variation as well as attractive and usable buildings and building sites.
(Prior Code, § 23.09.02)
§ 151.217 USES PERMITTED.
   (A)   Compatible residential, commercial, industrial, public and quasi-
public uses may be combined; provided that the proposed location of the
commercial or industrial uses will not adversely affect or disregard adjacent
property, public health, safety and the general welfare.
   (B)   A variety of housing and building types is encouraged by permitting a
higher per acre housing density and a reduction in lot dimensions and yard and
building setbacks, compared with conventional development standards.
(Prior Code, § 23.09.03)
§ 151.218 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The gross area of the tract to be developed under the planned unit
development approach shall comprise not less than ten acres, unless otherwise
approved by the Planning Commission.
   (B)   The total ground area occupied by buildings and structures shall not
exceed 80% of the total ground area, unless previous development in the
neighborhood has a greater ground coverage, in which case the plan may increase
the ground coverage of buildings and structures to correspond with the average
coverage in the neighborhood.
   (C)   A minimum of 10% of the land developed shall be reserved for open
space and similar uses such as an internal park network, recreational
facilities and preservation of natural features.
   (D)   The minimum lot size shall be not less than 70% of the lot area per
family or used otherwise required under these regulations. Lot widths and
required yards may be reduced to 80% of the requirements of these regulations.
   (E)   The design of the internal circulation system shall provide convenient
access to dwelling units and nonresidential facilities, separation of vehicular
and pedestrian traffic and shall be adequate to carry anticipated traffic,
including access for emergency vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 23.09.04)
§ 151.219 OPEN SPACE.
   The amount of open space reserved in the planned unit development shall
either be held in corporate ownership by the owners of the project area, for
the use of those who buy property; be held by an association of property owners
within the development; or be dedicated to city and retained as open space or
related uses. All land dedicated to the city shall meet the requirements of the
Planning Commission. Public utility easements and easements for watercourses
are not acceptable for open space dedication unless such land is usable as a
trail and approved by the Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 23.09.05)
§ 151.220 MANAGEMENT OF COMMON PROPERTY.
   (A)   A homeowners’ association, or in the case of nonresidential
development, an owners’ association, shall be established to provide for the
maintenance of all facilities and/or properties held in common within planned
unit developments. These shall include, but not be limited to, private streets
and walkways, private recreational facilities and common lots and open space
areas.
   (B)   The sub-divider shall submit evidence as to the financial ability of
the homeowners’ association to maintain any property or facilities held in
common ownership, including the estimated annual cost of maintaining all common
properties and facilities; the estimated monthly fee that shall be assessed to
each residential property; and an estimate of the value of the dwelling units
that will be constructed within the planned unit development. Any homeowners’
association and accompanying regulations shall be reviewed and approved by the
City Attorney.
(Prior Code, § 23.09.06)
§ 151.221 OPEN SPACE IMPROVEMENT GUARANTEE.
   (A)   At the time of the application for final plat approval, the sub-
divider shall provide a performance guarantee, in accordance with §§
151.195 through
151.203, in the amount of the estimated cost of the proposed open space
improvements.
   (B)   When the improvements are satisfactorily completed, the performance
guarantee may be reduced to 10% of its original amount to be used as a
maintenance guarantee for a one-year period. Improvements will then be
inspected by the City Manager and, if acceptable, will be thereafter managed as
open space by the city.
(Prior Code, § 23.09.07)
§ 151.222 CONFORMITY TO EXISTING STREET AND THOROUGHFARE PLAN.
   Whenever a planned unit development abuts or contains an existing or
proposed major thoroughfare or minor existing street, the roadway standards as
contained in these regulations shall be applicable.
(Prior Code, § 23.09.08)
§ 151.223 PUBLIC STREETS.
   The Planning Commission may require certain streets within the planned unit
development be public if it determines that the project density necessitates
the use of public streets for adequate circulation.
(Prior Code, § 23.09.09)
§ 151.224 PRIVATE STREETS.
   Private streets may be permitted in planned unit developments and shall meet
the construction requirements of these regulations. Private streets shall be
owned and maintained by abutting property owners and other persons to whom the
streets provide access.
(Prior Code, § 23.09.10)
§ 151.225 STAGING OF RESIDENTIAL PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Each stage of a planned unit development must be so designed so as to
stand independently of future related stages, in the event future stages are
not constructed. The construction and provision of all the common open spaces
and public and recreational facilities that are shown on the final development
plat must proceed at the same rate as the construction of dwelling units.
   (B)   If a planned unit development contains nonresidential uses, these uses
may be constructed first if the Planning Commission so approves.
(Prior Code, § 23.09.11)
HILLSIDE REGULATIONS
§ 151.240 GENERAL.
   These regulations apply to all hillside areas. A HILLSIDE is defined as
sloping ground with an average slope of more than 15%. The sub-divider shall
submit detailed information concerning geologic conditions, soil types and
undergroundwater level in order that a determination can be made by the City
Manager as to the safety of the particular site. New development shall maintain
existing levels of slope stability and not increase the potential for slope
failure. Development in hillside areas shall follow the technical standards and
specifications in Rainwater and Land Development, Second Edition,1996, ODNR, or
any later version that is published as an update.
(Prior Code, § 23.10.01)
§ 151.241 DETERMINATION FOR AVERAGE SLOPE.
   The average slope for any hillside development shall be determined by the
Planning Commission during the time of preliminary subdivision design.
Determination will be on an area-by-area basis with each lot sized according to
the average topographic change falling within each area.
(Prior Code, § 23.10.02)
§ 151.242 MINIMUM LOT REQUIREMENTS FOR SINGLE-FAMILY HOMES.
   The minimum lot requirements shall be used to determine the minimum lot area
for a single-family home (Table 12 omitted). The average percent of slope is
determined by the sub-divider’s registered engineer and approved by the City
Manager. The lot area in thousands of square feet shall then be determined by
charting the average natural ground slope and the minimum lot area. Rounding
shall be made to the nearest five foot frontage interval.
(Prior Code, § 23.10.03)
§ 151.243 GRADING PLANS AND CONTROLS.
   The grading plan shall show contour lines at the same intervals as required
in the preliminary plan. Lot layout and the approximate dimensions shall be
shown for each lot and each building site. Engineering data shall show the
existing topography and the approximate finished grades, location and size of
each building site, lot layout and lot dimensions and finished grade of streets
prior to consideration of the final plat.
(Prior Code, § 23.10.04)
§ 151.244 CUTS AND FILLS.
   (A)   Cut and fill slopes shall be designed, constructed and maintained in a
manner that will maximize stability and minimize erosion. Consideration shall
be given to length and steepness of slope, soil type, upslope drainage area and
groundwater conditions when determining appropriate drainage management and
slope stabilization measures.
   (B)   Rock or similar irreducible material with a maximum dimension greater
than eight inches, organic materials and construction and demolition debris
shall be prohibited from fills, unless such fills are intended and approved by
the City Manager as mass rock fills or disposal fills.
   (C)   Fills shall be compacted in eight-inch lifts to a density that is
appropriate for the intended use. That density shall be determined by
laboratory analysis of the fill material prior to its placement. The sub-
divider shall be responsible for this laboratory analysis.
   (D)   The horizontal distance from the top and from the toe of an existing
or proposed unrestrained cut or fill slope to the nearest existing or proposed
structure, property line or paved surface shall be at least one-half the
vertical height of the cut or fill, unless local geology or character of
materials indicates that a different distance is appropriate. No land shall be
graded, divider’s engineer and the County Engineer.
   (E)   The sub-divider shall have fill material tested by a responsible
testing company at his or her expense. No land shall be graded, cut or filled
so as to create a slope exceeding a vertical rise of one foot for each two and
one-half feet of horizontal distance between abutting lots, unless a retaining
wall, designed by a professional engineer, registered in the state, is provided
to retain the graded bank.
(Prior Code, § 23.10.05) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.245 COMPACTION OF FILL.
   All fill underlying a proposed roadway shall be compacted to a density of
95% or greater. Inspection of fill shall be conducted by the sub-divider’s
engineer and the City Engineer or County Engineer. The sub-divider shall have
the material tested by a responsible testing company at his or her expense.
(Prior Code, § 23.10.06) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.246 RETAINING WALLS.
   Retaining walls may be required whenever topographic conditions warrant or
where necessary to retain fill or cut slopes within the right-of-way. Such
improvements shall require the approval of the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 23.10.07) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.247 MINIMUM HILLSIDE REQUIREMENTS.
    The following regulations shall govern the front yard, side yard, street
right-of-way and pavement requirements in hillside subdivisions:
 
Table 13: Minimum Hillside Requirements
Group Slope      Front Yard Setback Side Yard Percentage Right-of-Way Pavement
                                    of Lot Width
1     15 - 25%   25 feet            10%                  50 feet      24 feet
2     26 - 30%   23 feet            10%                  45 feet      22 feet
3     31% - over 20 feet            10%                  40 feet      20 feet
 
(Prior Code, § 23.10.08) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.248 STREET ALIGNMENT.
   The following regulations shall govern street alignment.
   (A)   Vertical profile grades shall be connected by vertical curves up to
15%, but for only short, straight stretches.
   (B)   Waiver of visibility requirements may be given subject to the approval
of the Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 23.10.09) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.249 DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   The maximum grade on that portion of a driveway within a public right-
of-way shall not exceed 15%. Each driveway shall provide sufficient space and
distance to turn around prior to entering the street.
   (B)   When the average slope on a lot will exceed 15%, the driveway location
will be shown on the preliminary plan (or final plat if no preliminary plan was
submitted).
   (C)   Driveways shall be designed and constructed so as to drain into the
roadway ditch and not onto the roadway surface. The area of the driveway
adjacent to the roadway shall drain away from the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 23.10.10) Penalty, see §
151.999
REQUIRED STATEMENTS
§ 151.260 REQUIRED STATEMENTS.
   The following statements shall be affixed on the subdivision plat. The
Planning Commission may require modifications to the statements. All signatures
shall be obtained prior to approval of the subdivision plat by the Planning
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 23.11.01) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.261 DEED REFERENCE.
 
Situated in Section ______________, ______________ Township, City of
Nelsonville, Ohio, containing _____ acres and being (part or) the same tract as
conveyed to ___________ and described in the deed recorded in Deed Book
(Official Records) _____ Page _____, City of Nelsonville, Ohio.
 
(Prior Code, § 23.11.01)
§ 151.262 CERTIFICATE OF OWNERSHIP.
 
We, the undersigned, do hereby certify that we are the owners of the property
described in the above caption and that all legally due taxes have been paid,
and that as such owners, we have caused the said above described property to be
surveyed and subdivided as shown.
____________________________ Seal
____________________________ Seal
County         {'}'}
State of Ohio   {'}'} SS
 
(Prior Code, § 23.11.01)
§ 151.263 OWNER’S CONSENT AND DEDICATION.
 
We, the undersigned, being all the owners and lien holders of the lands herein
platted, do hereby voluntarily consent to the execution of the said plat and do
dedicate the streets, parks or open space as shown hereon to the public use
forever, unless such areas are specifically marked “private” on the final plat.
Easements shown on this plat, unless designated for a specific purpose, are for the
construction, operation, maintenance, repair, replacement or removal of water,
sewer, gas, electric, telephone, cable television, or other utility lines or
services, storm water disposal and to the free use of said easements or adjacent
streets and for providing ingress and egress to the property for said purposes and
are to be maintained as such forever. No buildings or other structures may be built
within said easements, nor may the easement area be physically altered so as to (1)
reduce clearances of either overhead or underground facilities; (2) impair the land
support of said facilities; (3) impair ability to maintain the facilities or (4)
create a hazard.
The undersigned further agrees that any use of improvements made on this land shall
be in conformity with all existing valid zoning, platting, health or other lawful
rules and regulations for the benefit of himself or herself and all other
subsequent owners or assigns taking title from, under, or through the undersigned.
In witness thereof this ______ day of ______, ______.
Witness: _________________________________________________________________________
Signed: _________________________________________________________________________
 
(Prior Code, § 23.11.01)
§ 151.264 CERTIFICATE OF NOTARY PUBLIC.
 
State of Ohio, S.S.
Be it remembered that on this ______ day of ______, ______ before me the
undersigned, a Notary Public in and for said State, personally came
__________________________________, who acknowledged the signing and execution
of the foregoing plat to be their voluntary act and deed for the purpose
therein expressed.
In testimony whereof, I have set my hand and Notary Seal on the day and date
above written.
By: _________________________________________________________________________
 
NOTARY PUBLIC
State of Ohio
My commission expires
_________________________________________________________________________
 
(Prior Code, § 23.11.01)
§ 151.265 CERTIFICATE OF SURVEYOR.
 
I hereby certify that this map is a true and complete survey made by me (under
my supervision) on ________________ (date) and that all monuments and lot
corner pins are (or will be) set as shown.
By: _________________________________________________________________________
(Print name and registration number here)
_________________________________________________________________________
Registered Surveyor
 
(Prior Code, § 23.11.01)
§ 151.266 CITY PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVAL.
 
Nelsonville City Planning Commission
This plat is recommended for Nelsonville City Council approval by the
Nelsonville City Planning Commission on this _________ day of _________,
_______.
_________________________________________________________________________
President
 
(Prior Code, § 23.11.01)
§ 151.267 COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT.
 
COUNTY HEALTH DISTRICT
I hereby approve this plat on this _________ day of _________, _______.
_________________________________________________________________________
County Health Administrator
 
(Prior Code, § 23.11.01)
§ 151.268 COUNTY ENGINEER.
 
Mathematical accuracy approved this _________ day of _________, 20 _______.
_________________________________________________________________________
County Engineer
Construction of road improvements as per City of Nelsonville Subdivision
Regulations:
Approved this _________ day of _________, 20 _______.
_________________________________________________________________________
Nelsonville City Manager
 
(Prior Code, § 23.11.01)
§ 151.269 CITY COUNCIL APPROVAL.
 
Acceptance of the dedication of the right-of-way does not constitute an
obligation on the part of any government entity to maintain and/or improve said
right-of-way. Approval of this plat for recording does not constitute an
acceptance of the dedication of any public street, road, or highway dedicated
on such plat. (Ohio Revised Code Chapter 711)
 
NELSONVILLE CITY COUNCIL
 
We hereby approve this plat on this _________ day of _________, _______.
_________________________________________________________________________
Nelsonville City Council (President)
 
(Prior Code, § 23.11.01)
§ 151.270 COUNTY AUDITOR’S TRANSFER.
 
COUNTY AUDITOR
 
Transferred on this _________ day of _________, _______.
By _________________________________________________________________________
County Auditor
 
(Prior Code, § 23.11.01)
§ 151.271 COUNTY RECORDER.
 
COUNTY RECORDER
File No. ________
Received on this _________ day of _________, _______ at _______ .M.
Recorded on this _________ day of _________, _______ at _______ .M.
Recorded in plat book No. _________, Page _________.
Fee $ ____________.
By _________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________
Deputy County Recorder
 
(Prior Code, § 23.11.01)
§ 151.272 ACCEPTANCE OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS FOR MAINTENANCE.
 
Be it resolved by the Nelsonville City Council that infrastructure improvements
have been inspected and approved for permanent maintenance by the City Manager
on this ______________ day of ______________, ______________.
_________________________________________________________________________
Nelsonville City Council (President)
 
(Prior Code, § 23.11.01)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.30 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever transfers, offers for sale or leases for a period of
more than five years any lot, parcel or tract of land from a plat of a
subdivision before such plat has been recorded in the office of the County
Recorder shall forfeit and pay the sum of not less than $100 nor more than $500
or as established by separate ordinance for each lot, parcel or tract of land
so sold. The description of such lot, parcel or tract by metes and bounds in
the deed or transfer shall not serve to exempt the seller from the forfeiture
provided in this division (B).
      (2)   The city shall not have any obligation to provide services to any
parcel of land created in violation of these regulations.
      (3)   A County Recorder who records a plat contrary to the provisions of
these regulations shall forfeit and pay not less than $100 nor more than $500
or as established by separate ordinance, to be recovered with costs in a civil
action by the prosecuting attorney in the name and for the use of the city.
(Prior Code, § 23.02.10)
APPENDIX A: SCHEDULE OF SUBDIVISION AND PARCEL TRANSFER FEES
Lot Splits, parcel splits and large lot division:
$25
Minor subdivision where one to four lots are proposed by variance with new
access easements/private street: no fee for initial site visit.
Major subdivision platting:
$100 for first 5 acres, $10 for each acre or portion thereof thereafter.
Note: Payment is due at time of preliminary plan filing. If preliminary plan
phases were not performed, the fee for the final plat will include the fees
that would have been charged for preliminary plan review.
Other subdivision fees:
One, two, three and four lot major subdivisions with private access easement:
$100 (if approved by variance).
Note: Variance application fee applied to fee if approved
Preliminary plan amendment: $25
Final plat amendment: $25
Subdivision appeal or variance: $50
Inspection rates: $50 per visit
(Includes additional site visits for subdivision inspections)
City subdivision regulations purchase: $10
(Prior Code, Chapter 23.12, Appendix A)
APPENDIX B: APPLICATION FOR MINOR SUBDIVISION APPROVAL AND LARGE LOT DIVISION
REGULATED BY R.C. §§ 711.131 AND 711.133
   Three completed and executed copies of this application supplemented with
applicable required information must be filed with the City Manager’s office.
Such applications will be assigned a file number and distributed to the Health
Department for review and comments. Separate application shall be submitted for
each lot subdivided. One copy of the application, together with the actions
taken by the City Planning Commission, will be returned to the applicant or his
or her agent.
 
NAME OF APPLICANT OR AGENT _________________________________________________________________________
ADDRESS _________________________________________________________________________
CITY __________________________________________________ STATE ___________
ZIP CODE _________________________________________________________________________
TELEPHONE _________________________________________________________________________
 
NAME OF GRANTOR _________________________________________________________________________
ADDRESS _________________________________________________________________________
CITY _________________________________________________________________________
STATE _________________________________________________________________________
ZIP CODE _________________________________________________________________________
TELEPHONE _________________________________________________________________________
 
Township of transfer _________________________________________________________________________
Section _________________________________________________________________________
Size of Parcel _________________________________________________________________________
 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - -
(For use of the Nelsonville City Manager)
Date Received _________________________________________________________________________
Date Reviewed _________________________________________________________________________
Approved _______________________________ Disapproved_______________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________
Nelsonville City Manager
Comments: _________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________
 
(For Health Department Use Only)
Date Received: _________________________________________________________________________
Date Reviewed: _________________________________________________________________________
Approved _____________________________ Disapproved_______________________________________________
Supervising Sanitarian: _________________________________________________________________________
Comments: _________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________
 
(For Use of the Nelsonville City Planning Commission Only)
Date Received _________________________________________________________________________
Date Reviewed _________________________________________________________________________
 
Action:
Fees Due $ _________________________________________________________________________
Fees Paid $ ______________________
Date Paid__________________________________________________
 
Comments: _________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________
 
_________________________________________________________________________
President
 
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 23.12, Appendix B)
APPENDIX C: APPLICATION FOR MAJOR SUBDIVISION APPROVAL REGULATED BY R.C.
CHAPTER 711
 
Name of Development
_________________________________________________________________________
Sketch plan reviewed:
_________________________________________________________________________
Preliminary plan approved:
_________________________________________________________________________
Final plat approved:
_________________________________________________________________________
 
General Information:
Owner:
_________________________________________________________________________
Address
_________________________________________________________________________
Phone:   Home
_____________________________________________________________________
Business __________________________________________________________________
Applicant:
_________________________________________________________________________
Address:
_________________________________________________________________________
Phone:   Home
_____________________________________________________________________
Business __________________________________________________________________
Engineer or Surveyor:
_________________________________________________________________________
Address
_________________________________________________________________________
Phone:   Home
_____________________________________________________________________
Business __________________________________________________________________
Development Data:
Location:
_________________________________________________________________________
Existing Zoning
_________________________________________________________________________
Proposed Use
_________________________________________________________________________
Number of Lots
_________________________________________________________________________
Total Acreage
_________________________________________________________________________
Range of Lot Sizes (List smallest and largest by acreage)
_________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________
Linear Feet of New Street
_________________________________________________________________________
 
Check ONE:
Water Supply: On lot system __________ Public System __________
Sewerage System: On lot system __________ Public System __________
 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
(For Official Use Only)
Exhibits Submitted
__________ Sketch Design Plan
__________ Preliminary Plan
__________ Final Plan Feasibility Study
__________ Street Profile and Cross Sections
__________ Drainage Plan
__________ Performance Bond
__________ Deed Restrictions
__________ Other
 
Distribution of Plan
__________ City Manager
__________ Dept. of Health
__________ ODOT
__________ OEPA
__________ Water Co.
__________ School District
__________ Other
ACTION:
 
Sketch Plan:
Comments:
_________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________
 
Preliminary Plan:
Approved:
_________________________________________________________________________
Rejected:
_________________________________________________________________________
Comments:
_________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________
 
Final Plat:
Approved: ____________________________________________ Rejected: ________
Comments:
_________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________
Plat Recorded with County: Yes ____ No _____
Date Recorded:
_________________________________________________________________________
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 23.12, Appendix C)
APPENDIX D: APPLICATION FOR SUBDIVISION VARIANCE
 
Date Application Received _________________________________________________________________________
Fee $ _________________ Application Number___________________________
A variance is a modification of the strict terms of the relevant regulations where such modifications will
not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to conditions peculiar to the property and not the
results of the action of the applicant, a literal enforcement of the regulations would result in unnecessary
and undue hardship.
APPLICANT NAME___________________________________________________________________
ADDRESS _________________________________________________________________________
CITY _________________________________________________________________________
STATE _____________________________ ZIP CODE _________________
TELEPHONE _____________________________________________________________________
Location of property under consideration (Address and/or description):
_________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________
Nature of variance required: (Describe generally the nature of the variance)
_________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________
   Justification of variance: On a separate sheet, please attach a statement explaining why the variance from
requirements of the subdivision regulation is required. Include such items as:
      (1) Exception topographical or other conditions peculiar to this particular parcel or land.
      (2) Why the strict interpretation of the regulations would deprive the applicant of rights enjoyed by
other property owners.
      (3) That the peculiar conditions do not result from previous actions of the applicant.
      (4) That the required variance is the minimum variance that will allow a reasonable division of the
land.
      (5) A sketch of the area showing the location of the requested variance.
 
I certify that all information contained in this application and its supplements is true and correct.
 
DATE _________________________________________________________________________
SIGNATURE _________________________________________________________________________
 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- - - - - - - -
(For Official Use Only)
 
Date Application Received ________________________________________________________________________
Approved ___________________ Disapproved ____________
Description of Action: _________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________
Nelsonville City Manager
 
Fee Received: YES ____________________ NO _______________________
AMOUNT $ _________________________________________________________________________
Comments: _________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________________________________
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 23.12, Appendix D)
APPENDIX E: PRELIMINARY PLAN CHECKLIST
 
Subdivision Name:
_________________________________________________________________________
 
Owner: _________________________________________________________________________
 
Reviewer:
_________________________________________________________________________
 
Date: _________________________________________________________________________
 
The following items (do, do not) conform with the requirements of the City of
Nelsonville Subdivision Regulations. Items not conforming are explained on the
reverse side of this checklist.
 
YES      NO
1. _______ _______ Application form complete
2. _______ _______ Variance application form complete (if necessary)
3. _______ _______ One original preliminary plan/appropriate # of copies
complete
4. _______ _______ One set of preliminary subdivision improvement plans complete
5. _______ _______ Proposed name (no duplication) and location
6. _______ _______ Name, address, & phone # of owner, sub-divider, professional
engineer, and professional surveyor with appropriate numbers and seals
7. _______ _______ Scale of plat, north point, legend, and vicinity map of scale
not less than 1”= 2000’
9. _______ _______ Names of adjacent subdivisions, owners of adjoining parcels,
and locations of common boundary lines within 200 feet of the subdivision
boundaries
10. _______ _______ Topographic contours (2 feet for <5% slopes, 5 feet for >5%-
<15% slopes, and 10 feet for >15% slopes)
11. _______ _______ Locations, widths, and names of existing and proposed
streets, railroad R/W’s, easements, parks, buildings, corporation and township
lines, wooded areas, watercourses, drainage patterns, water bodies, and
topographic features within and around the subdivision for 200 feet from its
borders
12. _______ _______ Locations of floodways, floodplains, and other potentially
hazardous areas
13. _______ _______ Locations of environmentally sensitive areas
14. _______ _______ Soil types from USDA soils map
15. _______ _______ Layout, numbers, dimensions of lots, and setback lines
16. _______ _______ Parcels reserved for public use or for use by residents of
the subdivision
17. _______ _______ Points of ingress/egress to the subdivision and locations of
proposed future access way locations for adjacent lands
18. _______ _______ Type of water supply and wastewater disposal systems,
locations and dimensions of proposed utilities, utility easements, sewer lines,
water mains, culverts, drainage tiles, or other underground utilities within or
adjacent to the tract
19. _______ _______ Locations of cemeteries, historical, or archaeological sites
20. _______ _______ Copy of proposed covenants and restrictions
21. _______ _______ Proposed schedule of construction
 
The following information does not apply to all subdivisions and may be
requested during the preliminary plan phase.
22. _______ _______ Statements of proposed use of lots with type and number of
dwelling units and/or type of business or industry
23. _______ _______ Conceptual plan for commercial or industrial development
showing proposed parking, loading areas, alleys, pedestrian walkways, streets,
points of vehicular ingress/egress to the development, and landscape features
24. _______ _______ Drawing of present and proposed grades and facilities for
storm water drainage in cases where natural drainage is altered
25. _______ _______ Feasibility study on water and sewer facilities
26. _______ _______ Screening, buffering, and/or noise abatement measures
27. _______ _______ Cross sections and centerline profiles for each proposed
street and preliminary engineering designs for any bridges or culverts proposed
in the project
28. _______ _______ Other information deemed necessary or prudent to create
buildable sites or to promote the public health, safety, and welfare
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 23.12, Appendix E)
APPENDIX F: FINAL PLAT CHECKLIST
 
Subdivision Name:
_________________________________________________________________________
 
Owner:
_________________________________________________________________________
 
Reviewer:
_________________________________________________________________________
 
Date: _________________________________________________________________________
 
The following items (do, do not) conform with the requirements of the City of
Nelsonville Subdivision Regulations. Items not conforming are explained on the
reverse side of this checklist.
 
YES      NO
1. _______ _______ Application form complete
2. _______ _______ Variance application form complete (if necessary)
3. _______ _______ One original final plat/appropriate # of copies complete
4. _______ _______ One original set of subdivision improvement plans and
required # of copies complete with name, address, and phone number of the
professional engineer with the appropriate number and seal
5. _______ _______ Sheet size and map scale
6. _______ _______ Proposed name (no duplication) and location
7. _______ _______ Name, address, & phone # of owner, sub-divider, and
professional surveyor with appropriate number and seal
8. _______ _______ Date of survey, scale of plat, north point, and acreage
9. _______ _______ Plat boundaries based on a field boundary survey, as defined
in Ohio Administrative Code, 4733-37, all lot numbers and lot lines shown with
accurate dimensions in feet and hundredths
10. _______ ______ Building front, rear, and side setback lines with dimensions
11. _______ ______ Outline of areas to be dedicated or reserved for public use
or common use by subdivision residents and outlines of previous lots or blocks
and their numbers, indicated by a contrasting line style, in the case of a
replat
12. _______ ______ Bearings and distances to the nearest established street
lines and accurate location and description of all monuments
13. _______ ______ Names, locations, dimensions, rights-of- way of all existing
and proposed streets and railroads within and adjoining the plat. Radii,
internal angles, points of curvature, tangent bearings, length of arcs, and
lengths and bearing of chords of all streets
14. _______ ______ Purposes, locations, and dimensions of all easements
15. _______ ______ Locations of all water bodies and flood hazard boundaries.
Base flood elevations have determined by a professional engineer when necessary
16. _______ ______ The owners of record, acreage, deed book and page references
for all abutting metes and bounds tracts and the names of all abutting
subdivisions, with lot lines, lot numbers and plat book and page references
17. _______ ______ A copy of any restrictive covenants, and other notes, items,
restrictions, or provisions required by the subdivision regulations or the
county
18. _______ ______ If a zoning change is involved, certification from the
appropriate city, township or county zoning officer.
19. _______ ______ A letter from the permitting agency indicating that a
driveway permit has been issued or will be issued by the City Manager, office
of the County Engineer, Township Trustees or Ohio Department of Transportation
on existing roads
20. _______ ______ Overlay map per R.C. § 711.02(B)
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 23.12, Appendix F)
APPENDIX G: SUBDIVISION ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW CHECKLIST
 
Subdivision Name:
_________________________________________________________________________
 
Owner: _________________________________________________________________________
 
Reviewer:
_________________________________________________________________________
 
Date: _________________________________________________________________________
 
The following questions should be answered as part of the sketch plan and
preliminary plan process. By giving serious consideration to the issues posed by
the questions, environmental problems posed by subdivision creation can be
minimized.
 
YES      NO
_______ _______ Does the subdivision conflict with any existing plans?
_______ _______ Does the subdivision affect the use of a recreation area, an
area of important visual value, or preempt a site with potential recreation or
open space value?
_______ _______ Will any unique natural or manmade features in the subdivision
area be disturbed?
_______ _______ Do the engineering plans follow State-recommended guidelines for
erosion control?
_______ _______ Do the engineering plans follow State-recommended guidelines for
storm water management?
_______ _______ Do the engineering plans adequately protect against geologic
hazards, particularly land slippage, unstable soils, and underground mine
subsidence?
_______ _______ Does the subdivision change existing topography or involve
construction in any floodplain, natural drainage course, or watercourse? Are
cuts and fills adequately engineered?
_______ _______ Is the subdivision one of a series of cumulative actions, which,
although individually small, may as a whole have significant environmental
impact?
_______ _______ Does the subdivision area serve as a habitat, food source,
nesting place, crossing, wintering area, source of water, etc. for any wildlife
species?
_______ _______ Are there any rare or endangered plant species in the
subdivision area?
_______ _______ Could the subdivision change existing features of any stream
frontage or greenbelt areas?
_______ _______ Will the subdivision remove substantial amounts of vegetation,
including ground cover?
_______ _______ Will the subdivision affect the hydrology of the region?
_______ _______ Will the subdivision serve to encourage development of presently
undeveloped areas or intensify development of already developed areas? Have
adequate measures been taken to plan for this development?
_______ _______ Is there appreciable opposition to the subdivision or is it
likely to be controversial?
_______ _______ Will the subdivision create new or aggravate existing health or
safety hazards?
_______ _______ Will the subdivision generate significant amounts of dust or
odor?
_______ _______ What will be the effects on traffic volumes and flow in the
vicinity of the subdivision?
_______ _______ Will the subdivision contribute to the loss of agricultural land
or impact existing farming operations in the vicinity?
_______ _______ Have adequate measures been taken to minimize pollution of the
air, water, and soil? Measures shall consider the subdivision’s future impacts
of noise pollution; light pollution; air pollution from dust; water pollution
from chemical applications, soil erosion, and human effluent, and soil pollution
from chemical applications and human effluent.
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 23.12, Appendix G)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD DAMAGE
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Statutory authorization
   
152.002   Findings of fact
   
152.003   Statement of purpose
   
152.004   Methods of reducing flood loss
   
152.005   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
152.006   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
   
152.007   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.008   Interpretation
   
152.009   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
152.010   Definitions
Administration
   
152.025   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
152.026   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
152.027   Floodplain development permits
   
152.028   Application required
   
152.029   Review and approval of a floodplain development permit application
   
152.030   Inspections
   
152.031   Post-construction certifications required
   
152.032   Revoking a floodplain development permit
   
152.033   Exemption from filing a development permit
   
152.034   Map maintenance activities
   
152.035   Data use and flood map interpretation
   
152.036   Substantial damage determination
Use and Development Standards for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
152.045   General
   
152.046   Use regulations
   
152.047   Water and wastewater systems
   
152.048   Subdivisions and large developments
   
152.049   Residential structures
   
152.050   Nonresidential structures
   
152.051   Accessory structures
   
152.052   Recreational vehicles
   
152.053   Above ground gas or liquid storage tanks
   
152.054   Assurance of flood carrying capacity
Appeals and Variances
   
152.065   Appeals Board established
   
152.066   Powers and duties
   
152.067   Appeals
   
152.068   Variances
   
152.069   Procedure at hearings
   
152.070   Appeal to the Court
Enforcement
   
152.085   Compliance required
   
152.086   Notice of violation
 
   
152.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   Article XVIII, § 3 of the state constitution grants municipalities the legal
authority to adopt land use and control measures for promoting the health,
safety and general welfare of its citizens. Therefore, the City Council does
ordain as follows.
(Prior Code, § 25.01.01)
§ 152.002 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   The city has special flood hazard areas that are subject to periodic
inundation which may result in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief and impairment of the tax base.
Additionally, structures that are inadequately elevated, floodproofed or
otherwise protected from flood damage also contribute to the flood loss. In
order to minimize the threat of such damages and to achieve the purposes
hereinafter set forth, these regulations are adopted.
(Prior Code, § 25.01.02)
§ 152.003 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare, and to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
areas of special flood hazard;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the proper use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to protect property and
minimize future flood blight areas;
   (G)   Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their actions;
   (H)   Minimize the impact of development on adjacent properties within and
near flood prone areas;
   (I)   Ensure that the flood storage and conveyance functions of the
floodplain are maintained;
   (J)   Minimize the impact of development on the natural, beneficial values
of the floodplain;
   (K)   Prevent floodplain uses that are either hazardous or environmentally
incompatible; and
   (L)   Meet community participation requirements of the national flood
insurance program.
(Prior Code, § 25.01.03)
§ 152.004 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSS.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter include methods and
provisions for:
   (A)   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety
and property due to water hazards, or which result in damaging increases in
flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities, which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel floodwaters;
   (D)   Controlling filling, grading, dredging, excavating and other
development which may increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers, which
will unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards in
other areas.
(Prior Code, § 25.01.04)
§ 152.005 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   These regulations shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within
the jurisdiction of the city as identified in §
152.006, including any additional areas of special flood hazard subsequently
annexed by the city.
(Prior Code, § 25.01.05)
§ 152.006 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   (A)   For the purposes of these regulations, the following studies and/or
maps are adopted:
      (1)   FEMA “Flood Insurance Study, Athens County, Ohio and Incorporated
Areas” and “Flood Insurance Rate Map, Athens County, Ohio and Incorporated
Areas” both effective December 18, 2009;
      (2)   Other studies and/or maps, which may be relied upon for
establishment of the flood protection elevation, delineation of the 1% chance/
100-year floodplain, floodways or delineation of other areas of special flood
hazard; and
      (3)   Any hydrologic and hydraulic engineering analysis authored by a
registered professional engineer in the state which has been approved by the
city as required by §
152.048.
   (B)   Any revisions to the aforementioned maps and/or studies are hereby
adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter. Such maps and/
or studies are on file at the office of the City Manager, 211 Lake Hope Drive,
Nelsonville, Ohio 45764.
(Prior Code, § 25.01.06) (Ord. 66-09, passed 12-14-2009)
§ 152.007 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter is not intended to repeal any existing ordinances,
including subdivision regulations, zoning or building codes. In the event of a
conflict between this chapter and any other ordinance, the more restrictive
shall be followed.
   (B)   This chapter shall not impair any deed restriction covenant or
easement but the land subject to such interests shall also be governed by the
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 25.01.07)
§ 152.008 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions
shall be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
      (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      (3)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   (B)   Where a provision of this chapter may be in conflict with a state or
federal law, such state or federal law shall take precedence over this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 25.01.08)
§ 152.009 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damage. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the city any officer or employee
thereof, or the Federal Emergency Management Agency, for any flood damage that
results from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully
made thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 25.01.09)
§ 152.010 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure on the same lot with, and of a nature
customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal structure.
   APPEAL. A request for review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year. The base flood may also be referred to as the 1% chance annual
flood or the 100-year flood.
   BASE (1% CHANCE/100-YEAR) FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The water surface
elevations of the base flood in relation to a specified datum, usually the
National Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1929 (NGVD29) or the North American
Vertical Datum of 1988 (NAVD88), and usually expressed in feet mean sea level
(MSL). In Zone AO areas, the base flood elevation is the natural grade
elevation plus the depth number (from one to three feet).
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor sub-grade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ENCLOSURE BELOW THE LOWEST FLOOR. See LOWEST FLOOR.
   EXECUTIVE ORDER 11988 (FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT). Issued by President Carter in
1977, this order requires that no federally assisted activities be conducted in
or have the potential to affect identified special flood hazard areas, unless
there is no practicable alternative.
   FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (FEMA). The agency with the overall
responsibility for administering the national flood insurance program.
   FILL. A deposit of earth material placed by artificial means.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). Usually the initial map produced by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency or U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development for a community depicting approximate special flood hazard areas.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency or the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development has delineated the areas of special flood hazard.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RISK ZONES. Zone designations on FHBMs and FIRMs that
indicate the magnitude of the flood hazard in specific areas of a community.
Following are the zone definitions:
      (1)   ZONE A. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 1% chance/100-
year flood; base flood elevations are not determined;
      (2)   ZONES A1 - 30 and ZONE AE. Special flood hazard areas inundated by
the 1% chance/100-year flood; baseflood elevations are determined;
      (3)   ZONE AO. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 1% chance/100-
year flood; with flood depths of one to three feet (usually sheet flow on
sloping terrain); average depths are determined;
      (4)   ZONE AH. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 1% chance/100-
year flood; flood depths of one to three feet (usually areas of ponding); base
flood elevations are determined;
      (5)   ZONE A99. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 1% chance/
100-year flood to be protected from the 1% chance/100-year flood by a federal
flood protection system under construction; no base flood elevations are
determined;
      (6)   ZONE B AND ZONE X (SHADED). Areas of 500-year flood; areas subject
to the 1% chance/100-year flood with average depths of less than one foot or
with contributing drainage area less than one square mile; and areas protected
by levees from the base flood; and
      (7)   ZONE C AND ZONE X (UNSHADED). Areas determined to be outside the
500-year floodplain.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official report in which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency or the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development has provided flood profiles, floodway boundaries (sometimes shown
on flood boundary and floodway maps) and the water surface elevations of the
base flood.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE). The base flood elevation plus one foot of
freeboard. In areas where no base flood elevations exist from any authoritative
source, the FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION can be historical flood elevations, or
base flood elevations determined and/or approved by the Floodplain
Administrator.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The City Manager of the city, or his or her
designee.
   FLOODWAY.
      (1)   A floodway is the channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that have been reserved in order to pass the base flood
discharge.
      (2)   A FLOODWAY is typically determined through a hydraulic and
hydrologic engineering analysis such that the cumulative increase in the water
surface elevation of the base flood discharge is no more than a designated
height. In no case shall the designated height be more than one foot at any
point within the community.
      (3)   The FLOODWAY is an extremely hazardous area, and is usually
characterized by any of the following: moderate to high velocity floodwaters,
high potential for debris and projectile impacts and moderate to high erosion
forces.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for the purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for
the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than
the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such
as wave action, obstructed bridge openings, debris and ice jams and the
hydrologic effect of urbanization in a watershed.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listings on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on the state’s inventory of historic places
maintained by the state’s historic preservation office; or
      (4)   Individually listed on the inventory of historic places maintained
by the city’s historic preservation program, which program is certified by the
city’s historic preservation office.
   HYDROLOGIC AND HYDRAULIC ENGINEERING ANALYSIS. An analysis performed by a
professional engineer, registered in the state, in accordance with standard
engineering practices as accepted by FEMA, used to determine flood elevations
and/or floodway boundaries.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). A letter of map change is an official FEMA
determination, by letter, to amend or revise effective flood insurance rate
maps, flood boundary and floodway maps and flood insurance studies. LOMCs are
broken down into the following categories:
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). A revision based on technical data
showing that a property was incorrectly included in a designated special flood
hazard area. A LOMA amends the current effective flood insurance rate map and
establishes that a specific property is not located in a special flood hazard
area;
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). A revision based on technical data
that, usually due to human-made changes, shows changes to flood zones, flood
elevations, floodplain and floodway delineations and planimetric features. One
common type of LOMR, a LOMR-F, is a determination concerning whether a
structure or parcel has been elevated by fill above the base flood elevation
and is, therefore, excluded from the special flood hazard area; and
      (3)   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR). A formal review and
comment by FEMA as to whether a proposed project complies with the minimum
national flood insurance program floodplain management criteria. A CLOMR does
not amend or revise effective flood insurance rate maps, flood boundary and
floodway maps or flood insurance studies.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement) of a structure. This definition excludes an ENCLOSURE BELOW THE
LOWEST FLOOR, which is an unfinished or flood resistant enclosure usable solely
for parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area; provided that such enclosure is built in accordance with the
applicable design requirements specified in this chapter for enclosures below
the LOWEST FLOOR.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. For the purposes of
this chapter, a MANUFACTURED HOME includes manufactured homes and mobile homes,
as defined in R.C. 3781.06(C)(4).
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. As specified in the O.A.C. § 4781-12-01, a
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK means any tract of land upon which three or more
manufactured homes used for habitation are parked, either free of charge or for
revenue purposes, and includes any roadway, building, structure, vehicle or
enclosure used or intended for use as part of the facilities of the park. A
tract of land that is subdivided and the individual lots are not for rent or
rented, but are for sale or sold for the purpose of installation of
manufactured homes on the lots, is not a MANUFACTURED HOME PARK, even though
three or more manufactured homes are parked thereon, if the roadways are
dedicated to the local government authority.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). Is a federal program enabling
property owners in participating communities to purchase insurance protection
against losses from flooding. This insurance is designed to provide an
insurance alternative to disaster assistance to meet the escalating costs of
repairing damage to buildings and their contents caused by floods.
Participation in the NFIP is based on an agreement between local communities
and the federal government that states if a community will adopt and enforce
floodplain management regulations to reduce future flood risks to all
development in special flood hazard areas, the federal government will make
flood insurance available within the community as a financial protection
against flood loss.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the “start of construction” commenced
on or after the initial effective date of the city’s flood insurance rate map
and study, effective January 17, 1986 and includes any subsequent improvements
to such structures.
   PERSON. Includes any individual or group of individuals, corporation,
partnership, association or any other entity, including state and local
governments and agencies. An AGENCY is further defined in R.C. § 111.15 as any
governmental entity of the state and includes, but is not limited to, any
board, department, division, commission, bureau, society, council, institution,
state college or university, community college district, technical college
district or state community college. AGENCY does not include the general
assembly, the controlling board, the adjutant general’s department or any
court.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ARCHITECT. A person registered to engage in the
practice of architecture under the provisions of R.C. §§ 4703.01 to 4703.19.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. A person registered as a professional
engineer under R.C. Chapter 4733.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL SURVEYOR . A person registered as a professional
surveyor under R.C. Chapter 4733.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). Also known as AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD
HAZARD is the land in the floodplain subject to a 1% or greater chance of
flooding in any given year. SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD areas are designated by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency on flood insurance rate maps, flood
insurance studies, flood boundary and floodway maps and flood hazard boundary
maps as Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A1 - 30 and A99. SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS may
also refer to areas that are flood prone and designated from other federal,
state or local sources of data, including, but not limited to, historical flood
information reflecting high water marks, previous flood inundation areas and
flood prone soils associated with a watercourse.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The date the building permit was issued, provided the
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement or other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The
ACTUAL START means either the first placement of permanent construction of a
structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation
of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of
excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent
construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and
filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor
does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations or
the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the
property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of a building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, manufactured home or gas or liquid
storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to it’s before damaged condition would
equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any improvement of a structure, the cost of which
equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the “start of
construction” of the improvement. This term includes structures which have
incurred “substantial damage”, regardless of the actual repair work performed.
The term does not, however, include:
      (1)   Any improvement to a structure that is considered “new
construction”;
      (2)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified prior to the application for a development permit by
the local Code Enforcement Officer and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
      (3)   Any alteration of a “historic structure”, provided that the
alteration would not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure”.
   VARIANCE. A granting of relief from the standards of this chapter consistent
with the variance conditions herein.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 25.02) (Ord. 66-09, passed 12-14-2009)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.025 DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The City Manager, or his or her designee, is hereby appointed to administer
and implement this chapter and is referred hereinto as the Floodplain
Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 25.03.01)
§ 152.026 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but are not limited to:
   (A)   Evaluate applications for permits to develop in special flood hazard
areas;
   (B)   Interpret floodplain boundaries and provide flood hazard and flood
protection elevation information;
   (C)   Issue permits to develop in special flood hazard areas when the
provisions of this chapter have been met, or refuse to issue the same in the
event of noncompliance;
   (D)   Inspect buildings and lands to determine whether any violations of
this chapter have been committed;
   (E)   Make and permanently keep all records for public inspection necessary
for the administration of this chapter, including flood insurance rate maps,
letters of map amendment and revision, records of issuance and denial of
permits to develop in special flood hazard areas, determinations of whether
development is in or out of special flood hazard areas for the purpose of
issuing floodplain development permits, elevation certificates, variances and
records of enforcement actions taken for violations of this chapter;
   (F)   Enforce the provisions of this chapter;
   (G)   Provide information, testimony or other evidence as needed during
variance hearings;
   (H)   Coordinate map maintenance activities and FEMA follow-up; and
   (I)   Conduct substantial damage determinations to determine whether
existing structures, damaged from any source and in special flood hazard areas
identified by FEMA, must meet the development standards of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 25.03.02)
§ 152.027 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to begin construction or other
development activity, including, but not limited to, filling; grading;
construction; alteration, remodeling or expanding any structure; or alteration
of any watercourse wholly within, partially within or in contact with any
identified special flood hazard area, as established in §
152.006, until a floodplain development permit is obtained from the Floodplain
Administrator. Such floodplain development permit shall show that the proposed
development activity is in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. No
such permit shall be issued by the Floodplain Administrator until the
requirements of this chapter have been met.
(Prior Code, § 25.03.03) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.028 APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   An application on forms provided by the Floodplain Administrator for a
floodplain development permit shall be required for all development activities
located wholly within, partially within or in contact with an identified
special flood hazard area. Such application shall be made by the owner of the
property or his or her authorized agent, herein referred to as the applicant,
prior to the actual commencement of such construction on a form furnished for
that purpose. Where it is unclear whether a development site is in a special
flood hazard area, the Floodplain Administrator may require an application for
a floodplain development permit to determine the development’s location.
   (B)   Such applications shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Site plans drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions
and topography of the area in question; the location of existing or proposed
structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage facilities and the location of
the foregoing;
      (2)   Elevation of the existing, natural ground where structures are
proposed;
      (3)   Elevation of the lowest floor, including basement, of all proposed
structures;
      (4)   Such other material and information as may be requested by the
Floodplain Administrator to determine conformance with, and provide enforcement
of this chapter;
      (5)   Technical analyses conducted by the appropriate design professional
registered in the state and submitted with an application for a floodplain
development permit when applicable:
         (a)   Floodproofing certification for nonresidential floodproofed
structure as required in §
152.050;
         (b)   Certification that fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor
of a structure not meeting the design requirements of §
152.049(E) are designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces;
         (c)   Description of any watercourse alteration or relocation that the
flood carrying capacity of the watercourse will not be diminished, and
maintenance assurances as required in §
152.054(C);
         (d)   A hydrologic and hydraulic analysis demonstrating that the
cumulative effect of proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood by more than one foot in special flood hazard areas
where the Federal Emergency Management Agency has provided base flood
elevations but no floodway, as required by §
152.054(B);
         (e)   A hydrologic and hydraulic engineering analysis showing impact
of any development on flood heights in an identified floodway as required by §
152.054(A); and
         (f)   Generation of base flood elevation(s) for subdivision and large-
scale developments, as required by §
152.048.
      (6)   A floodplain development permit fee of $50 for principal and
accessory residential structures and uses and $100 for commercial, industrial
and other nonresidential structures and uses or as otherwise established by
separate ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 25.03.04)
§ 152.029 REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF A FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Review. After receipt of a completed application, the Floodplain
Administrator shall review the application to ensure that the standards of this
chapter have been met. No floodplain development permit application shall be
reviewed until all information required in §
152.028 has been received by the Floodplain Administrator.
      (1)   The Floodplain Administrator shall review all floodplain
development permit applications to assure that all necessary permits have been
received from those federal, state or local governmental agencies from which
prior approval is required.
      (2)   The applicant shall be responsible for obtaining such permits, as
required, including permits issued by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers under §
10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act and § 404 of the Clean Water Act, and the Ohio
Environmental Protection Agency under § 401 of the Clean Water Act.
   (B)   Approval. Within 30 days after the receipt of a completed application,
the Floodplain Administrator shall either approve or disapprove the
application. If an application is approved, a floodplain development permit
shall be issued. All floodplain development permits shall be conditioned upon
the commencement of work within one year and completion of work within two
years. A floodplain development permit shall expire one year after issuance
unless the permitted activity has substantially begun and is thereafter pursued
to completion. A reasonable extension of time may be granted by the Floodplain
Administrator when such request is received, in writing from the permit holder.
(Prior Code, § 25.03.05)
§ 152.030 INSPECTIONS.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall make periodic inspections at appropriate
times throughout the period of construction in order to monitor compliance with
permit conditions, such permission to inspect being a part of the development
permit approval.
(Prior Code, § 25.03.06)
§ 152.031 POST-CONSTRUCTION CERTIFICATIONS REQUIRED.
   The following “as-built” certifications are required after a floodplain
development permit has been issued:
   (A)   For new or substantially improved residential structures, or
nonresidential structures that have been elevated, the applicant shall have a
Federal Emergency Management Agency elevation certificate completed by a
registered surveyor to record “as-built” elevation data. For elevated
structures in Zone A and Zone AO areas without a base flood elevation, the
elevation certificate may be completed by the property owner or owner’s
representative; and
   (B)   For all development activities subject to the standards of §
152.034(A), a letter of map revision.
(Prior Code, § 25.03.07)
§ 152.032 REVOKING A FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be revocable, if among other things,
the actual development activity does not conform to the terms of the
application and permit granted thereon. In the event of the revocation of a
permit, an appeal may be taken to the Board of Zoning Appeals (“the Board”) in
accordance with §§
152.065 through
152.070.
(Prior Code, § 25.03.08)
§ 152.033 EXEMPTION FROM FILING A DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   An application for a floodplain development permit from the city shall
not be required for:
      (1)   Maintenance work such as roofing, painting and basement sealing, or
for small nonstructural development activities (except for filling and grading)
valued at less than $5,000;
      (2)   Development activities in an existing or proposed manufactured home
park that are under the authority of the State Department of Health and subject
to the flood damage reduction provisions of R.C. Chapter 3701. Construction of
accessory structures and other development activities within a manufactured
home park not subject to O.A.C. § 4781 shall require a local development
permit;
      (3)   Major utility facilities permitted by the State Power Siting Board
under R.C. Chapter 4906;
      (4)   Hazardous waste disposal facilities permitted by the Hazardous
Waste Siting Board under R.C. Chapter 3734; and
      (5)   Development activities undertaken by a federal agency and which are
subject to federal executive order 11988 - floodplain management.
   (B)   Any proposed action exempt from filing for a floodplain development
permit is also exempt from the standards of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 25.03.09)
§ 152.034 MAP MAINTENANCE ACTIVITIES.
   To meet national flood insurance program minimum requirements to have flood
data reviewed and approved by FEMA, and to ensure that the city flood maps,
studies and other data identified in §
152.006 accurately represent flooding conditions so appropriate floodplain
management criteria are based on current data, the following map maintenance
activities are identified.
   (A)   Requirement to submit new technical data.
      (1)   For all development proposals that impact floodway delineations or
base flood elevations, the community shall ensure that technical data
reflecting such changes be submitted to FEMA within six months of the date such
information becomes available. These development proposals include:
         (a)   Floodway encroachments that increase or decrease base flood
elevations or alter floodway boundaries;
         (b)   Fill sites to be used for the placement of proposed structures
where the applicant desires to remove the site from the special flood hazard
area;
         (c)   Alteration of watercourses that result in a relocation or
elimination of the special flood hazard area, including the placement of
culverts; and
         (d)   Subdivision or large scale development proposals requiring the
establishment of base flood elevations in accordance with §
152.048.
      (2)   It is the responsibility of the applicant to have technical data,
required in accordance with division (A) above, prepared in a format required
for a conditional letter of map revision or letter of map revision, and
submitted to FEMA. Submittal and processing fees for these map revisions shall
be the responsibility of the applicant.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator shall require a conditional letter of
map revision prior to the issuance of a floodplain development permit for:
         (a)   Proposed floodway encroachments that increase the base flood
elevation; and
         (b)   Proposed development which increases the base flood elevation by
more than one foot in areas where FEMA has provided base flood elevations but
no floodway.
      (4)   Floodplain development permits issued by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be conditioned upon the applicant obtaining a letter of map
revision from FEMA for any development proposal subject to division (A)(1)
above.
   (B)   Right to submit new technical data. The Floodplain Administrator may
request changes to any of the information shown on an effective map that does
not impact floodplain or floodway delineations or base flood elevations, such
as labeling or planimetric details. Such a submission shall include appropriate
supporting documentation made in writing by the City Manager and may be
submitted at any time.
   (C)   Annexation/detachment. Upon occurrence, the Floodplain Administrator
shall notify FEMA, in writing, whenever the boundaries of the city have been
modified by annexation or the community has assumed authority over an area, or
no longer has authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations
for a particular area. In order that the flood insurance rate map accurately
represents the city boundaries, include within such notification a copy of a
map of the city suitable for reproduction, clearly showing the new corporate
limits or the new area for which the city has assumed or relinquished
floodplain management regulatory authority.
(Prior Code, § 25.03.10)
§ 152.035 DATA USE AND FLOOD MAP INTERPRETATION.
   The following guidelines shall apply to the use and interpretation of maps
and other data showing areas of special flood hazard.
   (A)   In areas where FEMA has not identified special flood hazard areas, or
in FEMA identified special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation and
floodway data have not been identified, the Floodplain Administrator shall
review and reasonably utilize any other flood hazard data available from a
federal, state or other source.
   (B)   Base flood elevations and floodway boundaries produced on FEMA flood
maps and studies shall take precedence over base flood elevations and floodway
boundaries by any other source that reflect a reduced floodway width and/or
lower base flood elevations. Other sources of data, showing increased base
flood elevations and/or larger floodway areas than are shown on FEMA flood maps
and studies, shall be reasonably used by the Floodplain Administrator.
   (C)   When preliminary flood insurance rate maps and/or flood insurance
study have been provided by FEMA, the following occur.
      (1)   Upon the issuance of a letter of final determination by the FEMA,
the preliminary flood hazard data shall be used and replace all previously
existing flood hazard data provided from FEMA for the purposes of administering
this chapter.
      (2)   Prior to the issuance of a letter of final determination by FEMA,
the use of preliminary flood hazard data shall only be required where no base
flood elevations and/or floodway areas exist or where the preliminary base
flood elevations or floodway area exceed the base flood elevations and/or
floodway widths in existing flood hazard data provided from FEMA. Such
preliminary data may be subject to change and/or appeal to FEMA.
   (D)   The Floodplain Administrator shall make interpretations, where needed,
as to the exact location of the flood boundaries and areas of special flood
hazard. A person contesting the determination of the location of the boundary
shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as
provided in §§
152.065 through
152.070.
   (E)   Where a map boundary showing an area of special flood hazard and field
elevations disagree, the base flood elevations or flood protection elevations
(as found on an elevation profile, floodway data table, established high water
marks and the like) shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 25.03.11)
§ 152.036 SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE DETERMINATION.
   (A)   Damages to structures may result from a variety of causes, including
flood, tornado, wind, heavy snow, fire and the like.
   (B)   After such a damage event, the Floodplain Administrator shall:
      (1)   Determine whether damaged structures are located in special flood
hazard areas;
      (2)   Conduct substantial damage determinations for damaged structures
located in special flood hazard areas; and
      (3)   Make reasonable attempt to notify owners of substantially damaged
structures of the need to obtain a floodplain development permit prior to
repair, rehabilitation or reconstruction. Additionally, the Floodplain
Administrator may implement other measures to assist with the substantial
damage determination and subsequent repair process. These measures include
issuing press releases, public service announcements and other public
information materials related to the floodplain development permits and repair
of damaged structures; coordinating with other federal, state and local
agencies to assist with substantial damage determinations; providing owners of
damaged structures materials and other information related to the proper repair
of damaged structures in special flood hazard areas; and assist owners of
substantially damaged structures with increased cost of compliance insurance
claims.
(Prior Code, § 25.03.12)
USE AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 152.045 GENERAL.
   The following use and development standards apply to development wholly
within, partially within or in contact with any special flood hazard area as
established in §§
152.006 or
152.035(A):
(Prior Code, Chapter 25.04)
§ 152.046 USE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Permitted uses. All uses not otherwise prohibited in this section or
any other applicable land use regulation adopted by the city are allowed
provided they meet the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Prohibited uses. Prohibited uses include the following:
      (1)   Private water supply systems in all special flood hazard areas
identified by FEMA, permitted under R.C.§ 3701.344 et seq.; and
      (2)   Infectious waste treatment facilities in all special flood hazard
areas, permitted under R.C. Chapter 3734.
(Prior Code, § 25.04.01) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.047 WATER AND WASTEWATER SYSTEMS.
   The following standards apply to all water supply, sanitary sewerage and
waste disposal systems not otherwise regulated by the Ohio Revised Code.
   (A)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems.
   (B)   New and replacement sanitary sewerage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into floodwaters.
   (C)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
or contamination from them during flooding.
(Prior Code, § 25.04.02) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.048 SUBDIVISIONS AND LARGE DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage and are subject to all applicable standards in this
chapter.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood damage.
   (D)   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data
are not available, the applicant shall provide a hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering analysis that generates base flood elevations for all subdivision
proposals and other proposed developments containing at least 50 lots or five
acres, whichever is less.
   (E)   The applicant shall meet the requirement to submit technical data to
FEMA in §
152.034(A)(1)(d) when a hydrologic and hydraulic analysis is completed that
generates base flood elevations as required by division (D) above.
(Prior Code, § 25.04.03)
§ 152.049 RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES.
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy. Where a
structure, including its foundation members, is elevated on fill to or above
the base flood elevation, the requirements for anchoring (this division (A))
and construction materials resistant to flood damage (division (B) below) are
satisfied.
   (B)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with methods and materials resistant to flood damage.
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or elevated so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvement of any residential
structure, including manufactured homes, shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, elevated to or above the flood protection elevation.
   (E)   New construction and substantial improvements, including manufactured
homes, that do not have basements and that are elevated to the flood protection
elevation using pilings, columns, posts or solid foundation perimeter walls
with openings sufficient to allow unimpeded movement of floodwaters may have an
enclosure below the lowest floor provided the enclosure meets the following
standards:
      (1)   Be used only for the parking of operable vehicles, building access
or storage;
      (2)   Be designed and certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls
by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters; or
      (3)   Have a minimum of two openings on different walls having a total
net area not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area,
and the bottom of all such openings being no higher than one foot above grade.
The openings may be equipped with screens, louvers or other coverings or
devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters.
   (F)   Manufactured homes and replacement of non-conforming trailers or
mobile homes otherwise permitted under §
153.179 shall be affixed to a permanent foundation and anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy. Methods
of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame
ties to ground anchors.
   (G)   Repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon a determination
that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s
continued designation as a historic structure and is the minimum necessary to
preserve the historic character and design of the structure, shall be exempt
from the development standards of this section.
(Prior Code, § 25.04.04) (Ord. 66-09, passed 12-14-2009) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.050 NONRESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES.
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial or other nonresidential structure shall meet the requirements of §
152.049(A) through (C) and (E) through (G).
   (B)   New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial or other nonresidential structure shall either have the lowest
floor, including basement, elevated to or above the level of the flood
protection elevation or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, shall meet all of the following standards:
      (1)   Be dry floodproofed so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water to the level of the flood
protection elevation;
      (2)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
      (3)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect,
through the use of a Federal Emergency Management Agency floodproofing
certificate, that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with
divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) above.
(Prior Code, § 25.04.05) (Ord. 66-09, passed 12-14-2009) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.051 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   Relief from the elevation or dry floodproofing standards may be granted for
accessory structures containing no more than 600 square feet. Such structures
must meet the following standards.
   (A)   They shall not be used for human habitation.
   (B)   They shall be constructed of flood resistant materials.
   (C)   They shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the minimum
resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
   (D)   They shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation.
   (E)   They shall have service facilities such as electrical and heating
equipment elevated or flood proofed to or above the level of the flood
protection elevation.
   (F)   They shall meet the opening requirements of §
152.049(E)(3);
(Prior Code, § 25.04.06) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.052 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   Recreational vehicles must meet at least one of the following standards.
   (A)   They shall not be located on sites in special flood hazard areas for
more than 180 days.
   (B)   They must be fully licensed and ready for highway use.
   (C)   They must meet all standards of §
152.049.
   (D)   All other vehicles stored in the open or in an enclosed building below
the base flood elevation shall be operable and capable of independent
propulsion in the event of flooding. Junk, inoperable and/or unlicensed motor
vehicles or recreational vehicles shall be specifically prohibited from being
located, stored or permitted to remain in the floodway.
(Prior Code, § 25.04.07) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.053 ABOVE GROUND GAS OR LIQUID STORAGE TANKS.
   All above ground gas or liquid storage tanks shall be anchored to prevent
flotation or lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic
loads.
(Prior Code, § 25.04.08)
§ 152.054 ASSURANCE OF FLOOD CARRYING CAPACITY.
   Pursuant to the purpose and methods of reducing flood damage stated in this
chapter, the following additional standards are adopted to assure that the
reduction of the flood carrying capacity of watercourses is minimized.
   (A)   Development in floodways.
      (1)   In floodway areas, development shall cause no increase in flood
levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge. Prior to issuance of
a floodplain development permit, the applicant must submit a hydrologic and
hydraulic analysis, conducted by a registered professional engineer,
demonstrating that the proposed development would not result in any increase in
the base flood elevation.
      (2)   Development in floodway areas causing increases in the base flood
elevation may be permitted provided all of the following are completed by the
applicant:
         (a)   Meet the requirements to submit technical data in §
152.034(A);
         (b)   An evaluation of alternatives which would not result in
increased base flood elevations and an explanation why these alternatives are
not feasible;
         (c)   Certification that no structures are located in areas that would
be impacted by the increased base flood elevation;
         (d)   Documentation of individual legal notices to all impacted
property owners within and outside the community, explaining the impact of the
proposed action on their property; and
         (e)   Concurrence of the City Manager and the chief executive officer
of any other communities impacted by the proposed actions.
   (B)   Development in riverine areas with base flood elevations but no
floodways.
      (1)   In riverine special flood hazard areas identified by FEMA where
base flood elevation data are provided but no floodways have been designated,
the cumulative effect of any proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development, shall not increase the base flood
elevation more than one foot at any point. Prior to issuance of a floodplain
development permit, the applicant must submit a hydrologic and hydraulic
analysis, conducted by a registered professional engineer, demonstrating that
this standard has been met.
      (2)   Development in riverine special flood hazard areas identified by
FEMA where base flood elevation data are provided but no floodways have been
designated causing more than one foot increase in the base flood elevation may
be permitted, provided all of the following are completed by the applicant:
         (a)   An evaluation of alternatives which would result in an increase
of one foot or less of the base flood elevation and an explanation why these
alternatives are not feasible; and
         (b)   Division (A)(2)(a) and (A)(2)(c) through (A)(2)(e) above.
   (C)   Alterations of a watercourse.
      (1)   For the purpose of this chapter, a watercourse is altered when any
change occurs within its banks. The extent of the banks shall be established by
a field determination of the “bankfull stage”. The field determination of
“bankfull stage” shall be based on methods presented in Chapter 7 of the USDA
Forest Service General Technical Report RM-245, Stream Channel Reference Sites:
An Illustrated Guide to Field Technique or other applicable publication
available from a federal, state or other authoritative source.
      (2)   For all proposed developments that alter a watercourse, the
following standards apply.
         (a)   The bankfull flood carrying capacity of the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse shall not be diminished. Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit, the applicant must submit a description of the
extent to which any watercourse will be altered or relocated as a result of the
proposed development, and certification by a registered professional engineer
that the bankfull flood carrying capacity of the watercourse will not be
diminished.
         (b)   Adjacent communities, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the
State Department of Natural Resources, Division of Water, must be notified
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse. Evidence of such
notification must be submitted to the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
         (c)   The applicant shall be responsible for providing the necessary
maintenance for the altered or relocated portion of said watercourse so that
the flood carrying capacity will not be diminished. The Floodplain
Administrator may require the permit holder to enter into an agreement with the
city specifying the maintenance responsibilities. If an agreement is required,
it shall be made a condition of the floodplain development permit.
         (d)   The applicant shall meet the requirements to submit technical
data in §
152.034(A)(1)(c) when an alteration of a watercourse results in the relocation
or elimination of the special flood hazard area, including the placement of
culverts.
(Prior Code, § 25.04.09) Penalty, see §
152.999
APPEALS AND VARIANCES
§ 152.065 APPEALS BOARD ESTABLISHED.
   The City Council appoints the Board of Zoning Appeals as the Appeals Board
(“the Board”) in accordance with the provisions of Article VII of the Charter.
(Prior Code, § 25.05.01)
§ 152.066 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board shall hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is
an error in any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the
Floodplain Administrator in the administration or enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   Authorize variances in accordance with §
152.068.
(Prior Code, § 25.05.02)
§ 152.067 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person affected by any notice and order, or other official action
of the Floodplain Administrator may request and shall be granted a hearing on
the matter before the Board; provided that such person shall file, within 30
days of the date of such notice and order, or other official action, a brief
statement of the grounds for such hearing or for the mitigation of any item
appearing on any order of the Floodplain Administrator’s decision. Such appeal
shall be in writing on forms provided by the Floodplain Administrator, signed
by the applicant and be filed with the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the appeal, the Floodplain Administrator shall
transmit said notice and all pertinent information on which the Floodplain
Administrator’s decision was made to the Board.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the notice of appeal, the Board shall fix a reasonable
time for the appeal but, in no case, more than 30 days from receipt of a
completed appeal application, give notice, in writing, to parties in interest
at least ten days in advance of the initial hearing, and decide the appeal
within 30 days after a final hearing.
(Prior Code, § 25.05.03)
§ 152.068 VARIANCES.
   Any person believing that the use and development standards of this chapter
would result in unnecessary hardship may file an application for a variance.
The Board shall have the power to authorize, in specific cases, such variances
from the standards of this chapter, not inconsistent with federal regulations,
as will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to special
conditions of the lot or parcel, a literal enforcement of the provisions of
this chapter would result in unnecessary hardship.
   (A)   Application for a variance.
      (1)   Any owner, or agent thereof, of property for which a variance is
sought shall make an application for a variance by filing it with the
Floodplain Administrator, who, upon receipt of the application for a variance,
shall transmit it to the Board.
      (2)   Such application shall be on forms provided by the Floodplain
Administrator and, at a minimum, shall contain the following information: name,
address and telephone number of the applicant; legal description of the
property; parcel map; description of the existing use; description of the
proposed use; location of the floodplain; description of the variance sought;
reason for the variance request; and any other information deemed necessary by
the Floodplain Administrator.
      (3)   The Board shall hear the case and render a decision in the same
manner and practice as a zoning appeal.
      (4)   All applications shall be accompanied by an administrative fee of
$50 to cover the cost of mailings, notifications and legal advertisement or an
amount as established by separate City Council ordinance.
   (B)   Notice for public hearing. The Board shall schedule and hold a public
hearing within 30 days after the receipt of a completed application for a
variance from the strict requirements of this chapter. Prior to the hearing, a
notice of such hearing shall be given in one or more newspapers of general
circulation in the community at least ten days before the date of the hearing.
Parties of interest shall also be notified at least ten days in advance of the
hearing.
   (C)   Public hearing. At such hearing, the applicant shall present such
statements and evidence as the Board requires. In considering such variance
applications, the Board shall consider and make findings of fact on all
evaluations, all relevant factors and standards specified in other sections of
this chapter and the following factors:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use that
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
      (6)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (D)   Variance issuance.
      (1)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship due to the physical characteristics of the property.
Increased cost or inconvenience of meeting the requirements of this chapter
does not constitute an exceptional hardship to the applicant;
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights beyond that which is allowed in this chapter;
additional threats to public safety; extraordinary public expense, nuisances,
fraud on or victimization of the public, or conflict with existing local laws;
         (d)   A determination that the structure or other development is
protected by methods to minimize flood damages; and
         (e)   A determination that the variance is the minimum necessary,
considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
      (2)   Upon consideration of the above factors and the purposes of this
chapter, the Board may attach such conditions to the granting of variances, as
it deems necessary to further the purposes of this chapter.
   (E)   Other conditions for variances.
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      (2)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level, providing items in divisions (C)(1) to (C)(11)
above have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond one-half
acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
      (3)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with a lowest floor
elevation below the flood protection elevation requirement and the cost of
flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
(Prior Code, § 25.05.04)
§ 152.069 PROCEDURE AT HEARINGS.
   (A)   All testimony shall be given under oath.
   (B)   A complete record of the proceedings shall be kept including all
documents presented and a verbatim record of the testimony of all witnesses.
   (C)   The applicant shall proceed first to present evidence and testimony in
support of the appeal or variance.
   (D)   The administrator may present evidence or testimony in opposition to
the appeal or variance.
   (E)   All witnesses shall be subject to cross-examination by the adverse
party or their counsel.
   (F)   Evidence that is not admitted may be proffered and shall become part
of the record for appeal.
   (G)   The Board shall issue subpoenas upon written request for the
attendance of witnesses. A reasonable deposit to cover the cost of issuance and
service shall be collected in advance.
   (H)   The Board shall prepare conclusions of fact supporting its decision.
The decision may be announced at the conclusion of the hearing and thereafter
issued in writing or the decision may be issued in writing within a reasonable
time after the final hearing but in no case more than 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 25.05.05)
§ 152.070 APPEAL TO THE COURT.
   Those aggrieved by the decision of the Board may appeal such decision to the
County Court of Common Pleas, as provided in R.C. Chapter 2506.
(Prior Code, § 25.05.06)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.085 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, erected, constructed,
reconstructed, repaired, extended, converted, enlarged or altered without full
compliance with the terms of this chapter and all other applicable regulations
which apply to uses within the jurisdiction of this chapter, unless
specifically exempted from filing for a development permit, as stated in §
152.033.
   (B)   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit shall be a violation
of this chapter and shall be punishable in accordance with §
152.999.
   (C)   Floodplain development permits issued on the basis of plans and
applications approved by the Floodplain Administrator authorize only the use,
and arrangement, set forth in such approved plans and applications or
amendments thereto. Use, arrangement or construction contrary to that
authorized shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and punishable in
accordance with §
152.999.
   (D)   Prior to development permit issuance, a permit fee of $50 for
principal and accessory residential structures and uses and $100 for
commercial, industrial and mixed use structures and all other activities
requiring a development permit is due. Fees may also be established by separate
City Council ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 25.06.01) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.086 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Whenever the Floodplain Administrator determines that there has been a
violation of any provision of this chapter, he or she shall give notice of such
violation to the person responsible therefore and order compliance with this
chapter as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Such notice and order shall:
      (1)   Be put in writing on an appropriate form;
      (2)   Include a list of violations, referring to the section or sections
of this chapter that have been violated, and order remedial action, which, if
taken, will effect compliance with the provisions of this chapter;
      (3)   Specify a reasonable time for performance;
      (4)   Advise the owner, operator or occupant of the right to appeal; and
      (5)   Be served on the owner, occupant or agent in person.
   (C)   However, this notice and order shall be deemed to be properly served
upon the owner, occupant or agent if a copy thereof is sent by registered or
certified mail to the person’s last known mailing address, residence or place
of business, and/or a copy is posted in a conspicuous place in or on the
dwelling affected.
(Prior Code, § 25.06.02)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements shall be deemed to be a strict liability offense, and shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined or
imprisoned as provided by the laws of the city. Each day such violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense. Any person previously
convicted within a two-year period shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree and any subsequent offense a misdemeanor of the first degree.
Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city from taking such other lawful
action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. The city shall
prosecute any violation of this chapter in accordance with the penalties stated
herein.
(Prior Code, § 25.06.03)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Authority
   
153.002   Title
   
153.003   Purpose
   
153.004   Definitions
   
153.005   Establishment of districts
   
153.006   Zoning map
   
153.007   Zoning district boundaries
   
153.008   Fencing for junk yards and the like required
   
153.009   Compliance with regulations
   
153.010   Interpretation and conflict
R-1 Single-Family Residential District
   
153.025   Purpose
   
153.026   Principal permitted uses
   
153.027   Conditional uses requiring approval from the Board of Zoning Appeals
   
153.028   Development standards
   
153.029   Accessory structures
R-2 Multi-Family Residential District
   
153.040   Purpose
   
153.041   Principal permitted uses
   
153.042   Conditional uses requiring approval from the Board of Zoning Appeals
   
153.043   Development standards
   
153.044   Accessory structures
M-1 Mobile Home Residential District
   
153.055   Purpose
   
153.056   Principal permitted uses
   
153.057   Conditional uses requiring approval from the Board of Zoning Appeals
   
153.058   Development standards
   
153.059   Accessory structures
C-1 Downtown Commercial District
   
153.070   Purpose
   
153.071   Principal permitted uses
   
153.072   Conditional uses requiring approval from the Board of Zoning Appeals
   
153.073   Development standards
   
153.074   Accessory structures
C-2 Highway Commercial District
   
153.085   Purpose
   
153.086   Principal permitted uses
   
153.087   Conditional uses requiring approval from the Board of Zoning Appeals
   
153.088   Development standards
   
153.089   Accessory structures
I-1 General Industrial District
   
153.100   Purpose
   
153.101   Principal permitted uses
   
153.102   Conditional uses requiring approval from the Board of Zoning Appeals
   
153.103   Development standards
   
153.104   Site plan review requirements
Supplemental Conditions
   
153.115   Adjustments to side yard requirements for corner lots
   
153.116   Visibility at intersections
   
153.117   Architectural projections
   
153.118   Double frontage lots
   
153.119   Accessory buildings
   
153.120   Sexually oriented business uses
   
153.121   Club swimming pools
   
153.122   Outdoor lighting
   
153.123   Home occupations
   
153.124   Bed and breakfast establishments
   
153.125   Height regulations for structures
   
153.126   Minimum standards for single- and multi-family dwellings
   
153.127   Number of buildings restricted
   
153.128   Outdoor display, storage and/or sale of materials and equipment
   
153.129   Temporary buildings
   
153.130   Sign regulations
Off-Street Parking and Loading Facilities
   
153.145   General requirements
   
153.146   General interpretation
   
153.147   Parking space dimensions
   
153.148   Loading space requirement and dimensions
   
153.149   Paving requirements
   
153.150   Drainage
   
153.151   Lighting
   
153.152   Maintenance
   
153.153   Location of parking spaces
   
153.154   Joint use
   
153.155   Encroachment and screening
   
153.156   Width of driveway and access aisles
   
153.157   Opening permit required
   
153.158   Parking restricted to certain areas
   
153.159   Parking within a Historic Preservation District
   
153.160   Parking space requirements
Non-Conformities
   
153.175   Continuance of non-conforming uses
   
153.176   Expansion or enlargement of non-conforming uses
   
153.177   Discontinuance of non-conforming uses
   
153.178   Reconstruction of non-conforming uses
   
153.179   Non-conforming mobile homes
   
153.180   Non-conforming uses under construction
   
153.181   Change of non-conforming uses
   
153.182   Continuance of non-conforming structures
   
153.183   Non-conforming lots of record
Enforcement
   
153.195   Zoning certificates required
   
153.196   Zoning certificates for existing uses which may be non-conforming
   
153.197   Application and issuance of zoning certificates
   
153.198   Fees for zoning certificates
   
153.199   Zoning certificate records
   
153.200   Remedies
   
153.201   Enforcement
Planning Commission
   
153.215   Organization of the Planning Commission
   
153.216   Powers and duties
   
153.217   Hearings and rules
   
153.218   Minutes and records
   
153.219   Witnesses and oaths
Board of Zoning Appeals
   
153.230   Organization of the Board of Zoning Appeals
   
153.231   Powers and duties
   
153.232   Alleged errors or matters of interpretations
   
153.233   Variances
   
153.234   Conditional uses
   
153.235   Expiration of approval of conditional uses
   
153.236   Change to non-conforming uses
   
153.237   Expiration of approval of changes to non-conforming uses
   
153.238   Hearings and rules
   
153.239   Minutes and records
   
153.240   Witnesses and oaths
   
153.241   Department assistance
   
153.242   Applications
   
153.243   Notification
   
153.244   Decisions of the Board
Amendments and Use Variances
   
153.255   General
   
153.256   Use variances
   
153.257   Action by Planning Commission
   
153.258   Action by City Council
   
153.259   Appeals
   
153.260   Hearings and notifications
   
153.261   Application fees
 
   
153.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 AUTHORITY.
   The City Council in accordance with enabling legislation for municipal
zoning, as provided in R.C. Chapter 713, hereby provides as follows.
(Prior Code, § 27.01.01)
§ 153.002 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Zoning Code of the City
of Nelsonville, Athens County, Ohio”, except as referred to herein where it
shall be known as “this chapter”.
(Prior Code, § 27.01.02)
§ 153.003 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted for the purpose of protecting and promoting the
public health, safety, morals, comfort and general welfare of the residents of
the city; to protect the property rights of all individuals by assuring
compatibility of use and practices within zoning districts; to facilitate the
provision of public utilities and services; to lessen congestion on public
streets, roads and highways; to make provision for penalties for violations;
and for any other proposes provided in this chapter, the Ohio Revised Code or
under common law rulings.
(Prior Code, § 27.01.03)
§ 153.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The word
“shall” is intended to be mandatory; “occupied” or “used” shall be considered
as though followed by the words “or intended, arranged or designed to be used
or occupied”. Except where specifically defined, all words used it this chapter
shall carry their customary meanings.
   ABANDONED JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle meeting all of the following
requirements:
      (1)   Left on private property for more than 72 hours or on a public
street or other property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking for more than 72 hours, or upon or within the right-of-way of any road
or highway for more than 72 hours; and
      (2)   Meeting the requirements of JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE, as herein defined.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle which is dismantled, inoperable,
unlicensed, parked, stored or left on any lots or lands in the municipality for
a period not to exceed 72 hours except in a duly licensed junkyard, automobile
salvage yard, motor vehicle salvage dealer’s yard or towing service yard.
   ABANDONMENT. To cease or discontinue a use or activity without intent to
resume, but excluding temporary or short-term interruptions to a use or
activity during periods of remodeling, maintaining or otherwise improving or
rearranging a facility or during nominal periods of vacation or seasonal
closure.
   ABUTTING. Having a common border with, or being separated from such a common
border by, a right-of-way, alley or easement.
   ACCESSORY APARTMENT. A separate and complete dwelling unit that is contained
within the structure of a single-family dwelling unit.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A subordinate structure detached from but located on
the same lot as the principal structure, the use of which is incidental and
accessory to that of the principal structure.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use incidental to, and on the same lot as a principal use.
   ADULT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin-operated or token-operated or electronically, electrically or mechanically
controlled, still or motion picture machines, projectors or other image-
producing devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per
machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are distinguished or
characterized by the depicting or describing of SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES or
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS, as herein defined.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. A commercial establishment which, as
one of its principal business purposes, offers for sale or rent for any form of
consideration any one or more of the following:
      (1)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes or video reproductions,
slides or other visual representations which depict or describe “specified
sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”; or
      (2)   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia, other than medical or
contraceptive devices, which are designed for use in connection with “specified
sexual activities”.
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features:
      (1)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity;
      (2)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
“specified anatomical areas” or by “specified sexual activities”; or
      (3)   Films, motion picture, video cassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or
description of “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”.
   ADULT FAMILY HOME. A residence or facility that provides accommodations and
supervision to three to five unrelated adults, at least three of whom require
personal care services and are licensed under provisions of R.C. Chapter 5119
and O.A.C. Chapter 5122.
   ADULT GROUP HOME. A residence or facility that provides accommodations and
supervision to six to 16 unrelated adults, at least three of whom require
personal care services and are licensed under provisions of R.C. Chapter 5119
and O.A.C. Chapter 5122.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where, for any form
of consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or similar
photographic reproductions are regularly shown which are characterized by the
depiction or description of “specified sexual activities” or “specified
anatomical areas”.
   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features persons who appear in a state of nudity,
or live performances which are characterized by the exposure of “specified
sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”.
   AGRICULTURE. The use of land for agricultural purposes, such as farming,
dairying, pasturage agriculture, horticulture, floriculture, viticulture and
animal and poultry husbandry and the necessary accessory used for packing,
treating or storing the produce; however, that the operation of any such
accessory uses shall be secondary to that of normal agricultural activities.
   AGRICULTURE SERVICES. Any elevators, sawmills, feed mills, farm implement
sales and services and other agriculture retail and wholesale supply
establishments. Veterinarians, veterinarian clinics and other professional
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES are included.
   ALLEY. A public or private way permanently reserved as a secondary means of
access to abutting property whether improved or not.
   ALTERATION, STRUCTURAL. Any change in the supporting members of a building
or structure, such as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders; provided,
however, that the application of any exterior siding to an existing building
for the purpose of beautifying and modernizing shall not be considered a
structural alteration.
   ALTERATION. Any change, addition or modification in construction or
occupancy of an existing structure.
   AMUSEMENT ARCADE. Any place of business where one or more skill-based
amusement machines are located for the use of entertainment or persons
patronizing the place of business.
   APARTMENT. See DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY.
   AUTOMOBILE SALVAGE YARD. A place of business which is maintained, used or
operated for the sole purpose of storing, keeping, buying or selling wrecked or
scrapped, ruined or dismantled motor vehicles or motor vehicle parts. It does
not include an automobile body shop or an automobile service station.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a building that is partly or completely below
grade. A BASEMENT shall be counted as a story where more than one-half its
height is above the average level of the adjoining ground.
   BED AND BREAKFAST. A house, or portion thereof, where short-term lodging
rooms and meals are provided.
   BEDROOM. Any room used principally for sleeping purposes, provided that no
room having less than 70 square feet of floor area shall be considered a
bedroom.
   BOARD. The Board of Zoning Appeals of the city.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A building arranged or used for lodging for compensation,
with or without meals, and not occupied as a single-family unit.
   BUILDING LINE. The line, parallel to the street line, which passes through
the point of the principal building nearest the front lot line.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance to the highest point of the roof for
flat roofs; to the deck line of mansard roofs and to the maximum height of any
segment of a hip, gable or gambrel roof, as measured from the average
surrounding grade elevation.
   BUILDING. A structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, used, or
intended to be used, for the shelter or enclosure of persons, animals or
chattels. When separated by division walls from the ground up without openings,
each portion of such building shall be deemed a separate BUILDING.
   CEMETERY. Land used or intended to be used for the burial of the dead and
dedicated for cemetery purposes, including crematories, mausoleums and
mortuaries when operated in conjunction with and within the boundaries of such
CEMETERY.
   CHILD DAY CAMP. A program in which only school children attend or
participate, that operates for no more than seven hours per day, that operates
only during one or more public school district’s regular vacation periods or
for no more than 15 weeks during the summer and that operates outdoor
activities for each child who attends or participates in the program for a
minimum of 50% of each day that children attend or participate in the program,
except for any day when hazardous weather conditions prevent the program from
operating outdoor activities for a minimum of 50% of that day. For purposes of
this definition, the maximum seven hours of operation time does not include
transportation time from a child’s home to a CHILD DAY CAMP and from a CHILD
DAY CAMP to a child’s home.
   CHILD DAY-CARE CENTER. A place in which child care or publicly funded child
care is provided for 13 or more children at one time or any place that is not
the permanent residence of the licensee or administrator in which child care or
publicly funded child care is provided for seven to 12 children at one time. In
counting children for purposes of this definition, any children under six years
of age who are related to the licensee, administrator or employee and who are
on the premises of the center shall be counted.
   CHURCH or PLACE OF RELIGIOUS WORSHIP. An institution that people regularly
attend to participate in or hold religious services, meetings and other
religious related activities. The term CHURCH shall not carry a secular
connotation and shall include buildings in which the religious services of any
denomination are held.
   CLINIC. A building designed and used for the diagnosis and treatment of
human patients that does not include overnight care facilities.
   CLUB. Buildings or facilities owned or operated by a corporation,
association or persons for a social, educational or recreational purpose; but
not primarily for profit or to render a service that is customarily carried on
as a business. This does not include student-related organizations.
   COLLECTOR’S VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle or agricultural tractor or traction
engine that is of special interest; that has a fair market value of $100 or
more, whether operable or not; and that is owned, operated, collected,
preserved, restored, maintained or used essentially as a collector’s item,
leisure pursuit or investment, but not as the owner’s principal means of
transportation.
   COMMERCIAL RECREATIONAL FACILITIES. Recreational facilities open to the
public, established and operated for a profit such as commercial golf courses,
golf driving ranges, swimming pools, ice skating rinks, riding stables, race
tracks, carnivals, boat docks and launching ramps, fishing piers and similar
commercial enterprises.
   COMMERCIAL TRACTOR. Any motor vehicle that has motive power and either is
designed or used for drawing other motor vehicles, or is designed or used for
drawing another motor vehicle while carrying a portion of the other motor
vehicle or its load, or both.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Any car, truck or motor vehicle that has motor power and
is designed and used for carrying merchandise or freight, or that is used as a
commercial tractor.
   COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the City of Nelsonville.
   COMMUNITY CENTER. A place, structure, area or other facility used for and
providing religious, fraternal, social and/or recreational programs generally
open to the public and designed to accommodate and serve significant segments
of the community.
   COMMUNITY RESIDENTIAL FACILITY. A halfway house or community residential
center which provides resident services to a group of individuals where the
facility is licensed with the Division of Parole and Community Services of the
Department of Rehabilitation and Corrections state parole authority, pursuant
to R.C. Chapters 2967 and 5120.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The long-range plan and any updates thereto, describing
the desirable use of land as adopted by the Planning Commission and the City
Council; the purpose of such plan being, among other purposes, to serve as a
guide in future development and zoning for the municipality.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use that, owing to some special characteristics attendant
to its operation or installation (for example, potential danger, smoke or
noise), is permitted in a district subject to approval by the Board of Zoning
Appeals, and subject requirements, different from those usual requirements for
the district in which the CONDITIONAL USE may be located.
   CONDOMINIUM.
      (1)   An estate in real property consisting of an undivided interest in
common with other purchasers in a portion of a parcel of real property,
together with a separate interest in space in a residential building, such as
an apartment.
      (2)   A CONDOMINIUM may include, in addition, a separate interest in
other portions of such real property.
   CONVENIENCE BUSINESS or SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT. Any convenience business or
service establishment supplying commodities or performing services for the
public, subject to the general condition that all businesses, services or
processing shall be conducted wholly within a completely enclosed building.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Nelsonville.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A local street, one end of which is closed and includes a
circular turn around.
   DENSITY. The number of dwelling units per net acre or lot of land (excluding
any public right-of-way).
   DEVELOPMENT. All structures and other modifications of the natural
landscape, above and below ground or water, on a particular site.
   DISTRICT or ZONING DISTRICT. The administrative tracts designating the uses
for which land can be legally utilized. Boundaries of the DISTRICTS are shown
on the zoning map, which is part of this chapter.
   DORMITORY. A building used as group living quarters for a student body,
religious order or other group as an associated use to a college, university,
boarding school, orphanage, convent, monastery, farm labor camp or other
similar use. DORMITORIES do not include kitchen facilities, except a group
kitchen facility to serve all residents.
   DOWNTOWN COMMERCIAL. The retail and service establishments catering to the
city’s residents and workers daily needs for goods and services, including
business, retail, professional, personal and travel services.
   DRIVE-IN FACILITY. An establishment that, by design of physical facilities
or by service or packaging procedures, encourages or permits customers to
receive a service or obtain a product that may be used or consumed in a motor
vehicle on the premises or to be entertained while remaining in an automobile.
   DRY CLEANER. A business that accepts garments to be cleaned laundered and/or
pressed by an employee of such business.
   DWELLING. A building or portion thereof used exclusively for residential
purposes, including one-family and multiple-family dwellings. The term DWELLING
shall include those involving industrialized units, mobile homes and
manufactured homes, but not recreational vehicles, hotels, motels and other
temporary housing.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms physically arranged so as to create an
independent housekeeping establishment for occupancy by one family with
separate toilets and facilities for cooking and sleeping.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A building or dwelling unit, or portion thereof,
designed for or used by more than one family unit.
   EASEMENT. The right of a person, government agency or public utility company
to use public or private land owned by another for a specific purpose.
   ERECT. To build, construct, attach, hang, place, suspend or affix, and shall
also include the painting of signs on walls.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. The erection, construction, alteration or maintenance by
public utilities, the city or other governmental agencies, of underground gas,
electrical or water transmission or distribution systems, collection,
communication, supply or disposal systems, including poles, wires, mains,
drains, sewers, pipes, traffic signals, hydrants or other similar equipment and
accessories in connection therewith which are reasonably necessary for the
furnishing of adequate service by such public utilities, city or other
governmental agencies for the public health, safety or general welfare.
   FACADE. The exterior wall of a building exposed to public view or that wall
viewed by persons not within the building.
   FAIR MARKET VALUE. The price at which a property would change hands in an
open market between a willing buyer and a willing seller, neither being under
any compulsion to buy or sell and both having knowledge of the relative facts
concerning the condition and location of the property and recent comparable
sales.
   FAMILY. An individual or two or more persons related by blood, marriage or
adoption, living together as a single housekeeping unit. A GROUP FAMILY is not
permitted the keeping of any roomers in R-1 or R-2 zones.
   FAMILY HOME. A residential facility that provides room and board, personal
care, habilitation services and supervision in a family setting for at least
six but not more than eight developmentally disabled persons pursuant to R.C.
Chapters 5119 and 5123.
   FENCE. Any artificially constructed barrier of any material or combination
of materials erected to enclose or screen areas of land.
   FIFTH WHEEL TRAILER. A vehicle that is of such size and weight as to be
movable without a special highway permit, that has a gross trailer area of 400
square feet or less, that is constructed with a raised forward section that
allows a bi-level floor plan and that is designed to be towed by a vehicle
equipped with a fifth-wheel hitch ordinarily installed in the bed of a truck.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area designated as being susceptible to flooding
according to maps and information provided by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency.
   FOLDING-TENT TRAILER. A canvas folding structure, mounted on wheels and
designed for travel and vacation uses.
   FOSTER FAMILY HOME. A residential facility that provides room and board,
personal care, habilitation services and supervision in a family setting for
not more than five developmentally disabled persons pursuant to R.C. Chapters
5119 and 5123.
   FOSTER HOME. A private residence in which children are received apart from
their parents, guardian or legal custodian by an individual reimbursed for
providing the children non-secure care, supervision or training 24 hours a day.
FOSTER HOME does not include care provided for a child in the home of a person
other than the child’s parent, guardian or legal custodian while the parent,
guardian or legal custodian is temporarily away. FAMILY FOSTER HOMES,
SPECIALIZED FOSTER HOMES and TREATMENT FOSTER HOME, as defined in R.C. Chapter
5103, are types of FOSTER HOMES.
   FRONTAGE. The side of a lot abutting on a street or way and ordinarily
regarded as the front of the lot, but it shall not be considered as the
ordinary side line of a corner lot.
   FUNERAL HOME. A building or part there of used for human funeral services.
Such building may contain space and facilities for:
      (1)   Embalming and the performance of other services used in preparation
of the dead for burial;
      (2)   The performance of autopsies and other surgical procedures; and/or
      (3)   The storage of caskets, funeral urns and other related funeral
supplies including the storage of funeral vehicles, but shall not include
facilities for cremation. Where a FUNERAL HOME is permitted, a funeral chapel
shall also be permitted.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. A building for the private use of the owner or occupant of
a principal building situated on the same lot of the principal building for the
storage of motor vehicles with no facilities for mechanical service or repair
of a commercial or public nature.
   GARAGE, REPAIR. A building designed and used for the storage, care, repair
or refinishing of motor vehicles, including both minor and major mechanical
overhauling, paint and body work. Also see SERVICE STATION.
   GRADE. The lowest point of elevation of the finished surface of the ground,
paving or sidewalk within the area between the building and the property line,
or when the property line is more than five feet from the building, between the
building and a line five feet from the building.
   GROSS FLOOR AREA. The sum of the areas of the several floors of a building,
including areas used for human occupancy in basements, attics and penthouses,
as measured from the exterior faces of the walls. It does not include cellars,
open porches or attics not used for human occupancy, or any floor space in
accessory buildings or in the main building intended and designed for the
parking of motor vehicles in order to meet the parking requirements of this
bylaw, or any such floor space intended and designed for accessory heating and
ventilating equipment. It shall include the horizontal area at each floor level
devoted to stairwells and elevator shafts.
   GROSS LEASABLE AREA. The total floor area designed for tenant occupancy and
exclusive use, including basements, mezzanines and upper floors, if any,
expressed in square feet and measured from the center line of joint partitions
and from outside wall faces.
   GROUP FAMILY. Not more than three persons, any one of which is not related
by blood, marriage or adoption to another, living together as a housekeeping
unit.
   GROUP HOME. A residential facility that provides room and board, personal
care, habilitation services and supervision in a family setting for at least
nine but not more than 16 developmentally disabled persons, pursuant to R.C.
Chapters 5119 and 5123.
   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES. Any substances or materials that, by reason of their
toxic, caustic, corrosive, abrasive or otherwise injurious properties, may be
detrimental or deleterious to the health of any person handling or otherwise
coming into contact with such material or substance.
   HEALTH/RECREATION FACILITY. An indoor facility, including uses such as game
courts, exercise equipment, locker rooms, jacuzzis and/or sauna and pro shop.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT. An area of the city designated in 1996 by the National
Register of Historic Places as District #96000672 and thereby having historic
architectural, engineering, commerce, community or event significance.
   HOME OCCUPATION. A non-transferable approval issued to a resident of a
specific property for accessory use of a principal dwelling unit or attached or
detached accessory structure to conduct an activity, profession, occupation,
service, craft or revenue-enhancing activity clearly subordinate and incidental
to use of the dwelling for residential purposes.
   HOME OCCUPATION, ADMINISTRATIVE. A home occupation permitted by the Zoning
Officer which has no clients coming to the dwelling, except as otherwise
permitted by this chapter, has no visible exterior evidence of the occupation,
does not create a need for additional parking, does not create additional
traffic and which does not alter or impact the general character and nature of
the premises or the surrounding neighborhood.
   HOME OCCUPATION, CONDITIONAL. A home occupation permitted by the Board of
Zoning Appeals which does not meet the definition and criteria of an
administrative home occupation, allows clients or customers to come to the
dwelling and requires that both the dwelling and home occupation parking needs
be met on-site.
   HOSPITAL. An institution specializing in giving clinical, temporary and
emergency services of a medical or surgical nature to human patients and
injured persons, and licensed by state law to provide facilities and services
in surgery, obstetrics and general medical practice.
   HOTEL. A facility offering transient lodging accommodations on a daily rate
to the general public and possibly providing additional services, such as
restaurants, meeting rooms and recreational facilities. Also see MOTEL.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. Any material that substantially reduces or prevents the
infiltration of storm water into previously undeveloped land. IMPERVIOUS
SURFACES shall not include graveled driveways or parking areas.
   HISTORICAL MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle that is over 25 years old and is
owned solely as a collector’s item and for participation in club activities,
exhibitions, tours, parades and similar uses, but that in no event is used for
general transportation.
   INDUSTRIALIZED UNIT. A building unit or assembly of closed construction
fabricated in an off-site facility that is substantially self-sufficient as a
unit or part of a greater structure and that requires transportation to the
site of intended use. INDUSTRIALIZED UNIT includes units installed on the site
as independent units, as part of a group of units or incorporated with standard
construction methods to form a completed structural entity. INDUSTRIALIZED UNIT
does not include a mobile home or manufactured home as herein defined. See R.C.
§ 3781.06(C)(3).
   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, including a licensed
collector’s vehicle or licensed historical vehicle, which, for a period of 30
days or more, remains in either of the following conditions:
      (1)   Does not display a valid registration sticker or license plate; or
      (2)   Are wrecked, partially wrecked, dismantled, partially dismantled,
discarded or incapable of operation under their own power.
         (a)   DISMANTLED or PARTIALLY DISMANTLED. Any motor vehicle from which
some parts have been removed or are missing.
         (b)   INCAPABLE OF OPERATION. Any motor vehicle which is unable or
apparently unable to move under its own power.
   JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle meeting all of the following
requirements:
      (1)   Three years old or older;
      (2)   Extensively damaged, such damage including, but not limited to, any
of the following:
         (a)   A broken window or windshield;
         (b)   Missing tire(s);
         (c)   Wheel(s);
         (d)   Motor; or
         (e)   Transmission.
      (3)   Apparently inoperable; and
      (4)   Having a fair market value of $1,500 or less.
   JUNKYARD. An establishment or place of business which is maintained or
operated for the purpose of storing, keeping, buying or selling junk. For the
purpose of this chapter, the term JUNKYARD shall also include scrap metal
processing facilities.
   KENNEL. An establishment licensed to operate a facility housing dogs, cats
or other household pets and where grooming, breeding, boarding, training or
selling of animals is conducted as a business.
   LANDFILL. A disposal site employing an engineering method of disposing of
solid wastes in a manner that minimizes environmental hazards by spreading,
compacting to the smallest volume and applying cover material over all exposed
waste at the end of each operating day.
   LAUNDRY, SELF-SERVICE. A business that provides home-type washing, drying
and/or ironing machines for hire on the premises to be used by customers.
   LICENSED COLLECTOR’S VEHICLE. A collector’s vehicle, other than an
agricultural tractor or traction engine that displays current, valid license
tags issued under R.C. § 4503.45, or a similar type of motor vehicle that
displays current, valid license tags issued under substantially equivalent
provisions in the laws of other states.
   LICENSED HISTORICAL VEHICLE. A historical vehicle that displays current,
valid license tags issued under R.C. § 4503.181.
   LOT. A parcel of land intended to be separately owned, developed and
otherwise used as a unit.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting on and at the intersection of two or more
streets.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT AREA. The area of horizontal plane bounded by the vertical planes
through front, side and rear lot lines.
   LOT COVERAGE. Determined by dividing all area of a lot that is occupied or
covered by the total horizontal projected surface of all buildings, including
covered porches and accessory buildings, by the gross area of that lot.
   LOT DEPTH. The average horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines.
   LOT LINE. A line dividing one lot from another lot or from a street or
alley.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The side of a lot abutting on a street or way and
ordinarily regarded as the front of the lot.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The lot line not intersecting a front lot line that is most
distant from and most closely parallel to the front lot line. A lot bounded by
only three lot lines will not have a rear lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot lines not a front or rear lot line.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot whose existence, location and dimensions have been
legally recorded or registered in a deed or on a plat.
   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between side lot lines measured at the
required front setback line.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A building unit or assembly of closed construction that
is fabricated in an off-site facility and constructed in conformance with the
federal construction and safety standards established by the Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development, pursuant to the Manufactured Housing
Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401, 5403, and
that has a permanent label or tag affixed to it certifying compliance with all
applicable federal construction and safety standards.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. Any tract of land upon which three or more
manufactured homes used for habitation are parked, either free of charge or for
revenue purposes, and includes any roadway, building, structure, vehicle or
enclosure used or intended for use as a part of the facilities of the park. See
O.A.C. § 4781-12-01(K).
   MINERAL EXTRACTION, STORAGE AND PROCESSING. Any mining, quarrying or
processing of limestone, sand, gravel, oil, natural gas or other mineral
resources.
   MINI-WAREHOUSE. See SELF-SERVICE STORAGE FACILITY.
   MOBILE HOME. A building unit or assembly of closed construction that is
fabricated in an off-site facility; is more than 35 feet in length or, when
erected on site, is 320 or more square feet; is built on a permanent chassis;
is transportable in one or more sections; and does not qualify as an
industrialized unit or manufactured home, as herein defined.
   MOTEL. A building or group of detached or connected buildings designed or
used primarily for providing sleeping accommodations for motor vehicle
transient guests and having a parking space next to a sleeping room. An
automobile court or a tourist court with more than one unit or a motor lodge
shall be deemed a MOTEL. Also see HOTEL.
   MOTOR VEHICLE SALVAGE DEALER. Any person who engages in business primarily
for the purpose of selling salvage motor vehicle parts and secondarily for the
purpose of selling at retail salvage motor vehicles or manufacturing or selling
a product of gradable scrap metal.
   MOTOR HOME. A self-propelled recreational vehicle that has no fifth wheel
and is constructed with permanently installed facilities for cold storage,
cooking and consuming of food and for sleeping.
   NEIGHBORHOOD BUSINESS. Any convenience business or service establishment
supplying commodities or performing services primarily for residents of the
neighborhood, subject to the general condition that all business, services or
processing shall be conducted wholly within a completely enclosed building.
   NON-COMMERCIAL RECREATIONAL FACILITIES. A private or semi-public
recreational facilities which is not operated for commercial gain, including
private country clubs, riding clubs, golf courses, game preserves, ski slopes,
hunting and trapping and other private non-commercial recreation areas and
facilities or recreation centers, including private community swimming pools.
NON-COMMERCIAL RECREATIONAL FACILITIES may be leased to outside groups or
organizations provided the fee for such purposes is limited to incidental
maintenance and custodial expenses.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. A lawful use of land existing prior to the enactment of
this chapter or relevant amendments thereto that does not comply with the
adopted use regulations for its zoning district.
   NON-CONFORMING LOT. A lot of record existing prior to the enactment of this
chapter or relevant amendments thereto that does not meet the current
requirements of this chapter due to size, lot dimension or area requirement.
   NON-CONFORMING BUILDING. Any building existing prior to the enactment of
this chapter or relevant amendments thereto that does not meet the limitations
on building size and location on a lot, for the district in which such building
is located, for the use to which such building is being utilized.
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person who appears in a state of nudity
or displays specified anatomical areas is provided solely to be sketched,
drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed or similarly depicted by other
persons.
   NUDITY or STATE OF NUDITY. Means:
      (1)   The appearance of human bare buttocks, anus, genitals or areola of
the female breast; or
      (2)   A state of dress which fails to cover opaquely a human buttocks,
anus, genitals or areola of the female breast.
   OFFICE. A building or portion of a building wherein services are performed
involving predominantly administrative, professional or clerical operations.
   OFFICE PARK. A large tract of land that has been planned, developed and
operated as an integrated facility for a number of separate office buildings
and supporting ancillary uses with special attention given to circulation,
parking, utility needs, aesthetics and compatibility.
   OPEN SPACE. An area that is intended to provide light and air, and is
designed for environmental, scenic or recreational purposes. OPEN SPACE may
include, but is not limited to, lawns, decorative planting, walkways, active
and passive recreation areas, playgrounds, fountains, swimming pools, wooded
areas and watercourses. OPEN SPACE shall not be deemed to include driveways,
parking lots or other surfaces designed or intended for vehicular travel.
   OUTDOOR STORAGE. The keeping, in an un-roofed area, of any goods, junk,
material, merchandise or vehicles in the same place for more than 72 hours.
   PARCEL. A continuous quantity of land in the possession of or owned by, or
recorded as the property of, the same person or persons.
   PARK TRAILER. A vehicle that is commonly known as a park model recreational
vehicle, meets the American National Standard Institute Standard A119.5 (1988)
for park trailers, is built on a single chassis, has a gross trailer area of
400 square feet or less when set up, is designed for seasonal or temporary
living quarters and may be connected to utilities necessary for the operation
of installed features and appliances.
   PARKING SPACE. An area on a lot and/or within a building intended for the
use of temporary parking of a personal vehicle. This is used interchangeably
with PARKING STALL.
      (1)   Each PARKING SPACE must have a means of access to a public street.
Tandem parking stalls in single-family detached, single-family attached and
townhouse residential uses shall be considered to have a means of access to a
public street.
      (2)   A PARKING SPACE shall have a permanently hard surfaced area of not
less than nine feet by 20 feet, either within a structure or in the open,
exclusive of access drives, and located upon the lot for which the parking
exists.
   PARKING LOT. An area not within a building where motor vehicles may be
stored for the purposes of temporary, daily or overnight of street parking.
Also see GARAGE, PUBLIC.
   PERMANENT FOUNDATION. A permanent masonry, concrete or footing or foundation
approved by the manufactured homes commission pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4781 to
which a residential dwelling, industrialized unit, manufactured home or mobile
home may be affixed.
   PERMANENTLY SITED MANUFACTURED HOME. A manufactured home that meets the
following criteria:
      (1)   The structure is affixed to a permanent foundation and is connected
to appropriate facilities;
      (2)   The structure, excluding any additions, has a width of at least 22
feet at one point, a length of at least 22 feet at one point and a total living
area, excluding garages, porches or attachments, of at least 900 square feet;
      (3)   The structure has a minimum 3:12 residential roof pitch,
conventional residential siding and a six-inch minimum eave overhang, including
appropriate guttering;
      (4)   The structure was manufactured after January 1, 1995; and
      (5)   Structure is not located in a manufactured home park or mobile home
residential district, as herein defined.
   PLANT NURSERY. The cultivation of crops, fruit trees, nursery stock, truck
garden products and similar plant materials outside or within greenhouses for
sale or for transplanting.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The main use of land for structures, as distinguished from a
secondary or accessory use.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING. A building in which the primary use of the lot on which
the building is located is conducted.
   PUBLIC SERVICE FACILITY. The erection, construction, alteration, operation
or maintenance of buildings, power plants or substations, water treatment
plants or pumping stations, sewage or pumping plants and other similar public
service structures by a public utility; by a railroad, whether publicly or
privately owned; or by a municipal or other governmental agency, including the
furnishing of electrical gas, rail transport, communication, public water and
sewage services.
   PUBLIC PARKS, PLAYGROUNDS or PLAYING FIELDS. Public land which has been
designated for park or recreational activities, including, but not limited to,
a park, playground, nature trails, swimming pool, reservoir, athletic field,
basketball or tennis courts, pedestrian bicycle paths, open space, wilderness
areas or similar public land within the city which is under the control,
operation or management of the city, county or state.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A boat, boat trailer, fifth wheel trailer, motor home,
park trailer, tent-type fold-out camping trailer, travel trailer, truck camper,
watercraft or related equipment.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV) PARK. A lot of land upon which two or more
recreational vehicle sites are located, established or maintained for occupancy
by recreational vehicles of the general public as temporary living quarters for
recreation or vacation purposes.
   RESTAURANT. An establishment that serves food and beverages primarily to
persons seated within the building. This includes cafés, tea rooms and outdoor
cafés.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. An area or strip of land, either public or private, on which
an irrevocable right-of- passage has been recorded for the use of vehicles or
pedestrians or both.
   ROAD, PRIVATE. A way open to vehicular ingress and egress established as a
separate tract for the benefit of certain adjacent properties. This definition
shall not apply to driveways.
   ROAD, PUBLIC. All public property reserved or dedicated for street traffic.
   ROOMING HOUSE. A building that is the primary residence of the owner and in
which rooms are provided, for compensation, to three or more adult persons not
related by blood, marriage or adoption to the owner. Also see BOARDING HOUSE.
   SCHOOL. Any public or private educational facility, including, but not
limited to, child day-care facilities, nursery schools, preschools,
kindergartens, elementary schools, primary schools, intermediate schools,
junior high schools, middle schools, high schools, vocational schools,
secondary schools, continuation schools and special education schools.
   SCRAP METAL PROCESSING FACILITY. An establishment having facilities for
processing iron, steel or nonferrous scrap and whose principal product is scrap
iron and steel or nonferrous scrap for sale for re-melting purposes.
   SELF-SERVICE STORAGE FACILITY. A building consisting of individual, small,
self-contained units that are leased or owned for the storage of business and
household goods or contractors supplies.
   SEMI-TRAILER. Any vehicle of the trailer type that does not have motive
power and is so designed or used with another and separate motor vehicle that
in operation a part of its own weight or that of its load, or both, rests upon
and is carried by the other vehicle furnishing the motive power for propelling
itself and the vehicle referred to in this division, and includes, for the
purpose only of registration and taxation under those chapters, any vehicle of
the dolly type, such as a trailer dolly, that is designed or used for the
conversion of a SEMI-TRAILER into a trailer.
   SERVICE STATION.
      (1)   Any premises where gasoline and other petroleum products are sold
and/or light maintenance activities such as engine tune-ups, lubrication, minor
repairs and carburetor cleaning are conducted.
      (2)   SERVICE STATION shall not include premises where heavy automobile
maintenance activities such as engine overhauls, automobile painting and body
fender work are conducted. Also see GARAGE, REPAIR.
   SETBACK. The required minimum horizontal distance between the building line
and the related front, side or rear property line.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult video
store, adult cabaret, adult motion picture theater or adult theater. SEXUALLY
ORIENTED BUSINESS does not include a nude model studio.
   SITE PLAN. A plan, prepared to scale, showing accurately and with complete
dimensioning, the boundaries of a site and the location of all buildings,
structures, uses and principal site development features proposed for a
specific parcel of land.
   SKILL-BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINE. Any mechanical, video, digital or electronic
device, as defined in R.C. § 2915.01(UU)(1).
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Human genitals.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Any of the following:
      (1)   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breasts;
      (2)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation or sodomy; and/or
      (3)   Masturbation, actual or simulated.
   STORY. The portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the floor next above it, or if there be no floor above it,
the space between such floor and the ceiling above it.
   STREET. A public or private thoroughfare used, or intended to be used, for
passage or travel by motor vehicles.
   SUPPORTED LIVING HOME. A residential facility for a developmentally disabled
person where, according to the person’s individual habilitation plan, the
person demonstrates skills that would enable the person to function for
specified periods of time without supervision. Such skills include, but are not
limited to, home management, community mobility, personal hygiene,
interpersonal relationship skills and self-preservation, pursuant to R.C.
Chapters 5123 and 5126.
   TEMPORARY BUILDING. A structure erected to provide shelter for a use which
is temporary in nature.
   TENT-TYPE FOLD-OUT CAMPING TRAILER. Any vehicle intended to be used, when
stationary, as a temporary shelter with living and sleeping facilities, and
that is subject to the following properties and limitations.
      (1)   A minimum of 25% of the fold-out portion of the top and sidewalls
combined must be constructed of canvas, vinyl or other fabric, and form an
integral part of the shelter.
      (2)   When folded, the unit must not exceed:
         (a)   Fifteen feet in length, exclusive of bumper and tongue;
         (b)   Sixty inches in height from the point of contact with the
ground;
         (c)   Eight feet in width; and
         (d)   One ton gross weight at time of sale.
   TRAILER. Any vehicle without motive power that is designed or used for
carrying property or persons wholly on its own structure and for being drawn by
a motor vehicle, and includes any such vehicle that is formed by or operated as
a combination of a semi-trailer and a vehicle of the dolly type such as that
commonly known as a trailer dolly, a vehicle used to transport agricultural
produce or agricultural production materials between a local place of storage
or supply and the farm when drawn or towed on a public road or highway at a
speed greater than 25 mph, and a vehicle that is designed and used exclusively
to transport a boat between a place of storage and a marina, or in and around a
marina, when drawn or towed on a public road or highway for a distance of more
than ten miles or at a speed of more than 25 mph. TRAILER does not include a
manufactured home or travel trailer.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A non-self-propelled recreational vehicle that does not
exceed an overall length of 35 feet, exclusive of bumper and tongue or
coupling, and contains less than 320 square feet of space when erected on site.
   TRUCK CAMPER. A non-self-propelled recreational vehicle that does not have
wheels for road use and is designed to be placed upon and attached to a motor
vehicle. TRUCK CAMPER does not include truck covers that consist of walls and a
roof, but do not have floors and facilities enabling them to be used as a
dwelling.
   TYPE A FAMILY DAY-CARE HOME or TYPE A HOME. The permanent residence of the
administrator in which child care or publicly funded child care is provided for
seven to 12 children at one time or a permanent residence of the administrator
in which child care is provided for four to 12 children at one time if four or
more children at one time are under two years of age. In counting children for
purposes of this definition, any children under six years of age who are
related to a licensee, administrator or employee and are on the premises of a
TYPE A HOME shall be counted. TYPE A FAMILY DAY-CARE HOME and TYPE A HOME do
not include any child day camp.
   TYPE B FAMILY DAY-CARE HOME or TYPE B HOME. The permanent residence of the
provider in which child care is provided for one to six children at any one
time in which no more than three children are under two years of age. For
purposes of determining group size in a TYPE B HOME, children under six years
of age who are related to the provider who are on the premises shall be
counted; children six years of age or older who are related to the provider who
are not publicly or privately funded and who are on the premises shall not be
included in the count; and children provided publicly or privately funded care
who are related to each other shall be counted. TYPE B HOMES which are not
certified by the Director of the County Job and Family Services shall also be
included in this definition and afforded all the rights and privileges of R.C.§
5104.054 related to zoning regulations. TYPE B FAMILY DAY-CARE HOMES and TYPE B
HOMES do not include any child day camp.
   VARIANCE. A dispensation permitted on individual parcels of property as a
method of alleviating unnecessary hardship by allowing a reasonable deviation
from the requirements of this chapter because of unusual or unique
circumstances.
   VEHICLE. A machine propelled by power other than human power, designed to
travel along the ground by use of wheels or treads and transporting persons or
property or pulling machinery and includes, without limitations, automobiles,
watercraft, trucks, trailers, buses, motorcycles and/or tractors.
   WATERCRAFT. Every description of craft, including non-displacement craft and
seaplanes, designed to be used as a means of transportation on water, plus the
normal equipment to transport the same on the streets and highways, including,
but not limited to, boats, sailboats, inflatable, manually propelled boats and
pontoon boats but not including canoes and rowboats.
   YARD. The required open space on a lot adjoining a lot line.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending along the full width of a front lot line
between side lots and from the front lot line to the front building line in
depth.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot and lying
between the rear lot line and the nearest line of the building; REAR YARD depth
shall be measured at right angles to the rear line of the lot.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard lying between the side lot line of the lot and the
nearest line of the building and extending from the front yard to the rear
yard, or in the absence of either of such front or rear yards, to the front or
rear lot lines.
   ZONING MAP. A drawing indicating boundaries of parcels and tracts of land
within the zoning districts of the city for the purpose of identifying uses for
which those tracts and parcels can be legally utilized.
   ZONING OFFICER. The person charged with the enforcement of this chapter, who
shall be the City Manager, or his or her designee, or the person appointed by
the City Manager, or his or her designee, with the approval of City Council.
(Prior Code, § 27.02.01) (Ord. 17-19, passed 4-22-2019)
§ 153.005 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The municipality is hereby divided into zoning districts which
regulate the general location of structures and use of land.
   (B)   These zoning districts are:
      (1)   R-1 Single-Family Residential District;
      (2)   R-2 Multi-Family Residential District;
      (3)   M-1 Mobile Home Residential District;
      (4)   C-1 Downtown Commercial District;
      (5)   C-2 Highway Commercial District; and
      (6)   I-1 Industrial District.
(Prior Code, § 27.03.01)
§ 153.006 ZONING MAP.
   (A)   The zoning map and all notations, references and information shown on
the map are a part of this chapter by reference, and have the same force and
effect as if fully set forth or described herein. This map is designated as the
“Zoning Map of the City of Nelsonville, Ohio”.
   (B)   In general, the zoning map shall be interpreted to carry out the
intent and purpose of this chapter. The official zoning map shall be maintained
by the Zoning Officer, and a copy shall be kept in the office of the City
Manager.
(Prior Code, § 27.03.02)
§ 153.007 ZONING DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   District boundary lines are as shown on the zoning map.
   (B)   Where districts are bounded approximately by lot lines or the
centerlines of streets or alleys, such lot line or center line shall be
construed to be the boundary of the district.
   (C)   When district boundaries divide a lot, boundary locations shall be
approximated by the use of a scale.
(Prior Code, § 27.03.03)
§ 153.008 FENCING FOR JUNK YARDS AND THE LIKE REQUIRED.
   All businesses operating as junk yards, salvage yards, wrecking operations,
auto storage or scrap tire storage facility, as outlined in §
153.004, to erect and maintain a solid fence on all sides of the premises,
except where there is a building which obstructs the view of such premises, as
specifically outlined in “Exhibit A” attached to the ordinance incorporated
herein this section and incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 20-17, passed 5-8-2017)
§ 153.009 COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS.
   The regulations set forth by this chapter within each zoning district shall
be minimum requirements and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of
structure or land except as hereinafter provided.
   (A)   No building, structure or land shall hereafter be used or occupied,
and no building or structure or part thereof shall hereafter be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered, unless in conformity
with all of the regulations herein specified for the zoning district in which
it is located.
   (B)   No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this chapter shall
be reduced in dimensions or area below the minimum requirements set forth
herein. Yards or lots created after the effective date of this chapter shall
meet at least the minimum requirements established by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 27.03.04) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.010 INTERPRETATION AND CONFLICT.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall be held to be the minimum
requirements for the promotion of the public safety, health, convenience,
comfort, morals, prosperity and general welfare.
   (B)   It is not intended by this chapter to interfere with or abrogate or
annul any ordinance, rules, regulations or permits previously adopted or
issued, and not in conflict with any of the provisions of this chapter, or
which shall be adopted or issued, pursuant to law relating to the use of
buildings or premises or upon the height of buildings, or requires larger open
spaces or larger lot areas than are imposed or required by such other
ordinances or agreements.
(Prior Code, § 27.03.05)
R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 153.025 PURPOSE.
   The Single-Family Residential District is hereby established to provide, at
suitable locations, areas where very low density residential development is
desired.
(Prior Code, § 27.04.01.01)
§ 153.026 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   Principal permitted uses include the following:
   (A)   Adult family home;
   (B)   Family home;
   (C)   Foster family home;
   (D)   Foster home;
   (E)   Permanently sited manufactured homes and industrialized units, except
in the Historic District, as herein defined in §
153.004, where they are prohibited;
   (F)   Public park, playground or playing field;
   (G)   Public service facility;
   (H)   Replacement of existing trailers, mobile homes, manufactured homes and
industrialized units in accordance with §
153.179;
   (I)   School;
   (J)   Single-family dwelling;
   (K)   Supported living home;
   (L)   Type B family day-care home; and
   (M)   Accessory use.
(Prior Code, § 27.04.01.02)
§ 153.027 CONDITIONAL USES REQUIRING APPROVAL FROM THE BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   Conditional uses requiring approval from the Board of Zoning Appeals include
the following:
   (A)   Adult group home;
   (B)   Bed and breakfast;
   (C)   Cemetery;
   (D)   Child day camp;
   (E)   Child day-care center;
   (F)   Church or place of religious worship;
   (G)   Community residential facility group home;
   (H)   Convenience business or service establishment;
   (I)   Home occupation (see § 153.123);
   (J)   Neighborhood business;
   (K)   Parking lot;
   (L)   Two-family dwelling; and
   (M)   Type A family day-care home.
(Prior Code, § 27.04.01.03) (Ord. 17-19, passed 4-22-2019) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.028 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   All lots principal buildings, outdoor storage buildings and garages shall
meet the following development standards as set forth by the Zoning Officer:
the Zoning Officer shall determine the minimum lot frontage and lot size,
minimum front yard, rear yard and side yard, by taking the average frontage,
size, front, rear and side setbacks of the lots on the street where the
development is to take place. No buildings shall exceed over 45 feet in height.
(Prior Code, § 27.04.01.04) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.029 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   Accessory structures include the following:
   (A)   Garage; and
   (B)   Home occupation accessory use.
(Prior Code, § 27.04.01.05)
R-2 MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 153.040 PURPOSE.
   The Multi-Family Residential District is hereby established to provide, at
suitable locations, areas where multi-family residential development is
desired.
(Prior Code, § 27.04.02.01)
§ 153.041 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   Principal permitted uses include the following:
   (A)   Adult family home;
   (B)   Adult group home;
   (C)   Apartment building;
   (D)   Family home;
   (E)   Foster family home;
   (F)   Foster home;
   (G)   Home occupation (see §
153.123);
   (H)   Multi-family dwelling;
   (I)   Permanently sited manufactured homes and industrialized units, either
single-family or multi-family, except in the Historic District as herein
defined in §
153.004, where they are prohibited;
   (J)   Public park, playground or playing field;
   (K)   Public service facility;
   (L)   Replacement of existing trailers, mobile homes, manufactured homes and
industrialized units in accordance with §
153.179;
   (M)   Rooming house;
   (N)   Single-family dwelling;
   (O)   Supported living home;
   (P)   Townhouses;
   (Q)   Type B family day-care home; and
   (R)   Accessory use.
(Prior Code, § 27.04.02.02)
§ 153.042 CONDITIONAL USES REQUIRING APPROVAL FROM THE BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   Conditional uses requiring approval from the Board of Zoning Appeals include
the following:
   (A)   Bed and breakfast;
   (B)   Cemetery;
   (C)   Child day camp;
   (D)   Child day-care center;
   (E)   Church or place of religious worship;
   (F)   Community residential facility;
   (G)   Convenience business or service establishment;
   (H)   Club;
   (I)   Group home;
   (J)   Neighborhood business;
   (K)   Professional office; and
   (L)   Type A family day-care home.
(Prior Code, § 27.04.02.03) (Ord. 17-19, passed 4-22-2019) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.043 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   All lots principal buildings, outdoor storage buildings and garages shall
meet the following development standards as set forth by the Zoning Officer:
the Zoning Officer shall determine the minimum lot frontage and lot size,
minimum front yard, rear yard and side yard, by taking the average frontage,
size, front, rear and side setbacks of the lots on the street where the
development is to take place. No buildings shall exceed over 45 feet in height.
(Prior Code, § 27.04.02.04) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.044 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   Accessory structures must be located more than five feet from any property
line, and may not be located within a required front yard. Detached accessory
structures may not occupy more than 10% of the lot.
(Prior Code, § 27.04.02.05) Penalty, see §
153.999
M-1 MOBILE HOME RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 153.055 PURPOSE.
   The Mobile Home Residential District is hereby established to provide, at
suitable locations, areas where mobile home residential development is desired.
(Prior Code, § 27.04.03.01)
§ 153.056 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   Principal permitted uses include the following:
   (A)   Adult family home;
   (B)   Adult group home;
   (C)   Apartment building;
   (D)   Boarding or rooming house;
   (E)   Family home;
   (F)   Foster family home;
   (G)   Foster home;
   (H)   Manufactured home;
   (I)   Mobile home;
   (J)   Permanently sited manufactured homes and industrialized units, either
single-family or multi-family;
   (K)   Public park, playground or playing field;
   (L)   Public service facility;
   (M)   Supported living home;
   (N)   Townhouses;
   (O)   Two-family dwelling;
   (P)   Type B family day-care home; and
   (Q)   Accessory use.
(Prior Code, § 27.04.03.02)
§ 153.057 CONDITIONAL USES REQUIRING APPROVAL FROM THE BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   Conditional uses requiring approval from the Board of Zoning Appeals include
the following:
   (A)   Child day camp;
   (B)   Child day-care center;
   (C)   Church or place of religious worship;
   (D)   Community residential facility;
   (E)   Group home;
   (F)   Home occupation (see §
153.123);
   (G)   Neighborhood business;
   (H)   Parking lot; and
   (I)   Type A family day-care home.
(Prior Code, § 27.04.03.03) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.058 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   All lots and principal buildings shall conform to the standards of O.A.C.
Chapter 4781-12, “Mobile Home Parks”.
(Prior Code, § 27.04.03.04) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.059 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   Accessory structures must be located more than five feet from any property
line, and may not be located within a required front yard. Detached accessory
structures may not occupy more than 10% of the lot.
(Prior Code, § 27.04.03.05) Penalty, see §
153.999
C-1 DOWNTOWN COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 153.070 PURPOSE.
   The Downtown Commercial District is hereby established to encourage
appropriate and compatible commercial development in the downtown area of the
city. It is the intent of this section to preserve the scenic and historical
beauty of this area and to protect property values in order to promote an
attractive economic business area.
(Prior Code, § 27.04.04.01)
§ 153.071 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   Principal permitted uses include the following:
   (A)   Adult family home;
   (B)   Adult group home;
   (C)   Bank and other similar financial establishments;
   (D)   Business and retail;
   (E)   Business service establishment, such as tailor, dressmaking and
barber/beauty salon;
   (F)   Child day camp;
   (G)   Child day-care center;
   (H)   Church or place of religious worship;
   (I)   Club;
   (J)   Family home;
   (K)   Foster family home;
   (L)   Foster home;
   (M)   Funeral home;
   (N)   General merchandise store;
   (O)   Group home;
   (P)   Hardware store;
   (Q)   Highway business;
   (R)   Parking lot;
   (S)   Pharmacy and drug store;
   (T)   Professional establishment such as offices for doctors, lawyers and
the like;
   (U)   Professional office such as those offering medical, legal, insurance
or accounting services;
   (V)   Public service facility;
   (W)   Permanently sited single-family manufactured homes and industrialized
units, except in the Historic District, as defined in §
153.004, where they are prohibited;
   (X)   Replacement of existing trailers, mobile homes, manufactured homes and
industrialized units in accordance with §
153.179.
   (Y)   Residential use on the second floor and above and commercial use only
on the ground or first floor regardless of the point of ingress and/or egress
whether it is located at the front, side or rear of the structure. No ground or
first floor residential use shall be permitted around the public square. For
the purposes of this section, AROUND THE PUBLIC SQUARE shall include inlots
three through ten; parts of inlots 12, 18 through 25 and 28; inlots 29 through
36; parts of inlot 37; inlots 41 through 48; parts of inlots 49, 60 and 61; and
part of outlot 6 as depicted on the County Auditor’s tax plat of Section 24,
York Township and more accurately depicted in drawings on file at the office of
the Zoning Officer;
   (Z)   Restaurant;
   (AA)   Single-family dwelling;
   (BB)   Supported living home;
   (CC)   Type A family day-care home;
   (DD)   Type B family day-care home; and
   (EE)   Accessory use.
(Prior Code, § 27.04.04.02)
§ 153.072 CONDITIONAL USES REQUIRING APPROVAL FROM THE BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   Conditional uses requiring approval from the Board of Zoning Appeals include
the following:
   (A)   Apartment building;
   (B)   Bar or lounge;
   (C)   Community residential facility;
   (D)   Entertainment facility including amusement arcade, except in the
Historic District, as defined in §
153.004, where they are prohibited;
   (E)   Nursing home;
   (F)   Permanently sited multi-family manufactured homes and industrialized
units, except in the Historic District, as defined in §
153.004, where they are prohibited;
   (G)   Rooming house;
   (H)   Service stations;
   (I)   Townhouses; and
   (J)   Two-family dwelling.
(Prior Code, § 27.04.04.03) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.073 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   All lots, principal buildings, outdoor storage buildings and garages shall
meet the following development standards as set forth by the Zoning Officer:
the Zoning Officer shall determine the minimum lot frontage and lot size,
minimum front yard, rear yard and side yard, by taking the average frontage,
size, front, rear and side setbacks of the lots on the street where the
development is to take place. No buildings shall exceed over 45 feet in height.
(Prior Code, § 27.04.04.04) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.074 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   Accessory structures must be located more than five feet from any property
line, and may not be located within a required front yard. Detached accessory
structures may not occupy more than 5% of the lot.
(Prior Code, § 27.04.04.05) Penalty, see §
153.999
C-2 HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 153.085 PURPOSE.
   The Highway Commercial District is hereby established to encourage
compatible commercial development in certain areas along major thoroughfares.
(Prior Code, § 27.04.05.01)
§ 153.086 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   Principal permitted uses include the following:
   (A)   Bar or lounge;
   (B)   Barber/beauty shop;
   (C)   Business, retail and service;
   (D)   Church or place of religious worship;
   (E)   Club;
   (F)   Commercial recreation facility;
   (G)   Entertainment facility;
   (H)   Funeral home;
   (I)   Highway business and service;
   (J)   Professional service;
   (K)   Public service;
   (L)   Repair garage;
   (M)   Public use;
   (N)   Replacement of existing trailers, mobile homes, manufactured homes and
industrialized units in accordance with §
153.179;
   (O)   Restaurant;
   (P)   Service station; and
   (Q)   Accessory use
(Prior Code, § 27.04.05.02)
§ 153.087 CONDITIONAL USES REQUIRING APPROVAL FROM THE BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   Conditional uses requiring approval from the Board of Zoning Appeals include
the following:
   (A)   Adult family home;
   (B)   Adult group home;
   (C)   Amusement arcade;
   (D)   Apartment building;
   (E)   Child day camp;
   (F)   Child day-care center;
   (G)   Church or place of religious worship;
   (H)   Community residential facility;
   (I)   Family home;
   (J)   Foster family home;
   (K)   Foster home;
   (L)   Group home;
   (M)   Mineral processing and storage;
   (N)   Nursing home;
   (O)   Permanently sited manufactured homes and industrialized units, either
single-family or multi-family, except in the Historic District, as defined in §
153.004, where they are prohibited;
   (P)   Rooming house;
   (Q)   Single-family dwelling;
   (R)   Supported living home;
   (S)   Townhouses;
   (T)   Two-family dwelling;
   (U)   Type A family day-care home; and
   (V)   Type B family day-care home.
(Prior Code, § 27.04.05.03) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.088 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   All lots, principal buildings, outdoor storage buildings and garages shall
meet the following development standards as set forth by the Zoning Officer:
the Zoning Officer shall determine the minimum lot frontage and lot size,
minimum front yard, rear yard and side yard, by taking the average frontage,
size, front, rear and side setbacks of the lots on the street where the
development is to take place. No buildings shall exceed over 45 feet in height.
(Prior Code, § 27.04.05.04) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.089 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   Accessory structures must be located more than five feet from any property
line, and may not be located within a required front yard. Detached accessory
structures may not occupy more than 5% of the lot.
(Prior Code, § 27.04.05.05) Penalty, see §
153.999
I-1 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 153.100 PURPOSE.
   The General Industrial District is hereby established to provide suitable
areas for more intensive industrial development.
(Prior Code, § 27.04.06.01)
§ 153.101 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   Principal permitted uses include the following:
   (A)   Agriculture and agricultural service;
   (B)   Amusement arcade;
   (C)   Business, retail and service;
   (D)   Entertainment facility;
   (E)   Highway business and service;
   (F)   Industrial use;
   (G)   Parking lot;
   (H)   Professional service;
   (I)   Public service;
   (J)   Replacement of existing trailers, mobile homes manufactured homes and
industrialized units in accordance with §
153.179; and
   (K)   Accessory building.
(Prior Code, § 27.04.06.02)
§ 153.102 CONDITIONAL USES REQUIRING APPROVAL FROM THE BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   Conditional uses requiring approval from the Board of Zoning Appeals include
the following:
   (A)   Adult family home;
   (B)   Adult group home;
   (C)   Apartment building;
   (E)   Child day camp;
   (F)   Child day-care center;
   (G)   Church and place of religious worship;
   (H)   Community residential facility;
   (I)   Family home;
   (J)   Foster family home;
   (K)   Foster home;
   (L)   Group home;
   (M)   Mineral processing and storage;
   (N)   Nursing home;
   (O)   Permanently sited manufactured home;
   (P)   Industrialized units, either single-family or multi-family, except in
the Historic District, as defined in §
153.004, where they are prohibited;
   (Q)   Rooming house;
   (R)   Single-family dwelling;
   (S)   Supported living home;
   (T)   Townhouses;
   (U)   Two-family dwelling;
   (V)   Type A family day-care home; and
   (W)   Type B family day-care home.
(Prior Code, § 27.04.06.03) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.103 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   All lots, principal buildings, outdoor storage buildings and garages shall
meet the following development standards as set forth by the Zoning Officer:
the Zoning Officer shall determine the minimum lot frontage and lot size,
minimum front yard, rear yard and side yard, by taking the average frontage,
size, front, rear and side setbacks of the lots on the street where the
development is to take place. No buildings shall exceed over 45 feet in height.
(Prior Code, § 27.04.06.04) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.104 SITE PLAN REVIEW REQUIREMENTS.
   Before the issuance of any zoning certificate for any development that
includes the construction of any parking area involving five or more spaces, a
site plan shall be submitted and approved by the Zoning Officer.
(Prior Code, § 27.04.06.06) Penalty, see §
153.999
SUPPLEMENTAL CONDITIONS
§ 153.115 ADJUSTMENTS TO SIDE YARD REQUIREMENTS FOR CORNER LOTS.
   Regardless of side setback line requirements and minimum side yard
requirements set forth in other parts of this chapter, when a lot is located on
a corner of intersecting streets, all yards abutting a public street shall be
considered to be a front yard, and shall be required to have front yard
setbacks and front yard requirements for all such yards abutting a public
street.
(Prior Code, § 27.05.01) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.116 VISIBILITY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   In any district on a corner lot, no fence, structure or planting shall be
erected or maintained within 30 feet of the “corner” at a height between two
and one-half and ten feet above curb or street grade, or so as to interfere
with traffic visibility across the corner. The “corner” shall be the point of
intersection of the two right-of-way lines. The Board of Zoning Appeals may
hear an appeal for a variance to allow a fence, structure or planting within
the prohibited area, if traffic visibility is not impaired.
(Prior Code, § 27.05.02) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.117 ARCHITECTURAL PROJECTIONS.
   Open structures such as porches, balconies, platforms, carports and covered
patios and similar architectural projections shall be considered a part of the
building to which attached and shall not project into the required minimum
front, side or rear yard. Projections of sills, belt course, roof eaves,
cornices and similar structural and ornamental features shall not project into
required minimum front, side or rear yard.
(Prior Code, § 27.05.03) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.118 DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOTS.
   Lots having frontage on more than one street shall provide the required
front yard along both streets.
(Prior Code, § 27.05.04) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.119 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   Accessory structures, when not attached to a principal structure, may be
located at any location with a rear or side yard; provided, however, that an
unattached accessory structure may not be located in a required side setback
between a permanent structure and the property line, or in an area that would
place it closer to the street than the principal structure. Accessory buildings
can only be placed on a lot with a principal structure.
(Prior Code, § 27.05.05) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.120 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS USES.
   (A)   A sexually oriented business shall not be operated or located on any
parcel within 1,000 feet of:
      (1)   Any building which is used primarily for religious worship and
related religious activities;
      (2)   A school, public or private, as defined in §
153.004;
      (3)   A boundary of any residential zoning district;
      (4)   A public park, playground or playing field, as defined in §
153.004;
      (5)   Any public library; or
      (6)   Any other sexually oriented business.
   (B)   No such business shall be located on any parcel or operated within 500
feet of any landmark or Historic District.
   (C)   Such businesses shall only be located in an I-1 Industrial District.
   (D)   No advertisements, displays or other promotional materials displaying
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas shall be shown or
exhibited so as to be visible to the public from pedestrian sidewalks or
walkways, or from other areas public or semi-public.
   (E)   All building openings, entries, windows and the like for adult uses
shall be located, covered or serviced in such a manner as to prevent a view
into the interior from any public or semi-public area, sidewalk or street. For
new construction, the building shall be oriented so as to minimize any
possibility of viewing the interior from public or semi-public areas.
   (F)   No screens, loudspeakers or sound equipment shall be used for adult
motion picture theaters (enclosed or drive-in) that can be seen or discerned by
the public from public or semi-public areas.
   (G)   For the purposes of this section, measurements shall be made in a
straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the
nearest portion of the building or structure used as a part of the premises
where a sexually oriented business is conducted, to the nearest property line
of the premises of a church or school, or to the nearest boundary of an
affected public park or residential district.
   (H)   For the purposes of this section, the distance between any two
sexually oriented businesses shall be measured in a straight line, without
regard to intervening structures or objects from the closest exterior wall of
the structure in which each business is located.
   (I)   No person shall establish, operate or cause the establishment or
operation of any sexually oriented business in violation of the provisions of
this section. Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit or limit
the display, sale or rental of descriptive, printed, film or video material, or
any live performance which, taken as a whole, contains serious literary,
artistic, political, medical educational or scientific value.
   (J)   Any sexually oriented business lawfully operating on the effective
date of this section that is in violation shall be deemed a non-conforming use.
A sexually oriented business lawfully operating as a conforming use is not
rendered a non-conforming use by the subsequent location of a church, public or
private school, residential district, public park or library within 1,000 feet
or a landmark or historic district within 500 feet of the sexually oriented
business. When a non-conforming sexually oriented business use of a structure,
building or premises is voluntarily discontinued or abandoned for more than six
months, the structure, building or premises shall not thereafter be used except
in conformity with the regulations of the zoning district in which it is
located.
(Prior Code, § 27.05.06) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.121 CLUB SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   A club swimming pool shall be any pool constructed by an association
of property owners or by a private club for use by members and guests of the
association or club.
   (B)   Community and club swimming pools are permitted in all districts, but
shall comply with the following conditions and requirements.
      (1)   The pool and accessory structures thereto, including the areas used
by the bathers, shall not be closer than the setback required in the district
where the use is located.
      (2)   The swimming pool and all of the area used by the bathers shall be
so walled or fenced no less than six feet in height and maintained in good
condition, and shall be provided with a gate and lock.
(Prior Code, § 27.05.08) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.122 OUTDOOR LIGHTING.
   Outdoor lighting, when used for security, landscaping or signage, shall be
so desired and directed so as not to adversely impact traffic or adjacent
properties.
(Prior Code, § 27.05.09) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.123 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   Administrative home occupations shall be permitted in compliance with
the following conditions.
      (1)   An administrative home occupation shall be permitted in any
residential zoning district within a residential dwelling unit and/or attached
or detached accessory structure.
      (2)   There shall be no persons except those permanently residing in the
residential dwelling unit employed in the home occupation.
      (3)   There shall be no more than one administrative home occupation
permitted per resident.
      (4)   All activity shall be conducted entirely within the dwelling unit
and/or an attached or detached accessory structure and the use for the home
occupation shall be clearly incidental and subordinate to its principal use as
a residential dwelling and premises.
      (5)   The area used for the home occupation shall not occupy more than
25% of the gross floor area of the dwelling unit up to a maximum of 300 square
feet and without limitation in an attached or detached accessory structure.
      (6)   There shall be no change in the exterior appearance of any
building, structure or premises condition and no visible evidence of the
conduct of such home occupation.
      (7)   There shall be no exterior display of commodities, goods or
merchandise or the posting of a permanent or temporary sign advertising the
home occupation.
      (8)   There shall be no on-premises sale of commodities, goods or
merchandise produced as the result of the home occupation.
      (9)   There shall be no vehicular or pedestrian traffic generated by such
use greater in volume than the existing streets and sidewalks can support,
including, but not limited to, deliveries via USPS, FedEx or delivery service.
Such service shall be on an intermittent basis and shall not be accomplished by
a semi-trailer truck or other vehicle not commonly traveling on residential
streets.
      (10)   There shall be no creation of a parking lot or additional parking
beyond that required for the residential use or the provisions of this chapter.
      (11)   There shall be no equipment or processes used that create
excessive noise, vibrations, glare, fumes, odors, electrical interference,
voltage fluctuation or other adverse impact to adjacent properties or the
general vicinity.
      (12)   There shall be no increased burden placed upon existing public
services provided to the residence because of the home occupation, including,
but not limited to, increased water service, increased sanitary sewer service,
increased storm water disposal facilities or increased gas or electrical
service in excess of that determined by the Zoning Officer to meet an existing
service deficiency.
      (13)   Income from home occupations shall be reportable to the City
Auditor and subject to the provisions of §§
36.15 through
36.31.
      (14)   There shall be the payment of a permit fee as established by
separate City Council ordinance.
   (B)   Administrative home occupations shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Desktop publishing;
      (2)   Computer programming and small electronic device repair;
      (3)   Typing and word processing;
      (4)   Telephone/internet answering service;
      (5)   Internet sales with no on-premises storage of goods or customer
visitation;
      (6)   Art or craft studio;
      (7)   Teaching, tutoring and instruction;
      (8)   Laundering and ironing;
      (9)   Cooking and preserving;
      (10)   The professional office of a doctor, lawyer, dentist,
psychologist, psychiatrist, clergy, realtor, broker, insurance agent, engineer,
draftsperson or accountant and not more than one additional employees is at the
premises; and
      (11)   The home business office of any trade or profession as long as no
business activity is conducted on the premises; there is no exterior display or
storage of products, merchandise or materials; and no employees report for work
or conduct business activities at the premises.
   (C)   Conditional home occupations shall be permitted in compliance with the
following conditions.
      (1)   A conditional home occupation shall be permitted in any residential
zoning district within a residential dwelling unit and/or attached or detached
accessory structure.
      (2)   All proposals for home occupations other than those permitted as
administrative home occupations shall be considered conditional home
occupations and shall be reviewed by the Board of Zoning Appeals in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   There shall be not more than two additional persons employed in the
home occupation other than the resident occupants.
      (4)   There shall be no more than one conditional home occupation
permitted per premises.
      (5)   All activity shall be conducted entirely within the dwelling unit
and/or an attached or detached accessory structure and the use for the home
occupation shall be clearly incidental and subordinate to its principal use as
a residential dwelling and premises.
      (6)   The area used for the home occupation shall not occupy more than
50% of the gross floor area up to a maximum of 500 square feet and without
limitation in an attached or detached accessory structure.
      (7)   There shall be a limited number of clients or customer permitted at
the premises as determined by the Board of Zoning Appeals and in consideration
of the specifically requested use and the potential impact to adjacent
properties and the surrounding neighborhood.
      (8)   Hours of operation open to the public shall not begin before 8:00
a.m. or continue later than 9:00 p.m.
      (9)   There shall be no change in the exterior appearance of any
building, structure or premises condition and no visible evidence of the
conduct of such home occupation other than one sign, not exceeding five square
feet in area, non-illuminated and mounted flat against an exterior portion of
the building in which the home occupation is located.
      (10)   The sale of goods other than those produced on-site is limited to
a maximum of 25% of the allowable gross floor area stipulated in division (C)
(5) above or 25% of the value of stock inventory, whichever is greater.
      (11)   Any addition to a dwelling in order to accommodate a home
occupation may be permitted so long as such addition remain residential in
character and meet all other requirements of this chapter.
      (12)   No equipment process, materials or chemicals shall be used which
create offensive noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odor, heat, glare, x-rays,
radiation, electrical disturbances or voltage fluctuation.
      (13)   There shall be not more than four additional parking places or one
per employee proposed in conjunction with the home occupation or enough to meet
the minimum parking requirements and specifications of §§
153.145 through
153.160, whichever is less.
      (14)   Income from home occupations shall be reportable to the City
Auditor and subject to the provisions of §§
36.15 through
36.31.
      (15)   There shall be the payment of a permit fee as established by
separate City Council ordinance.
   (D)   Certain types of home occupations that may have the potential to
create greater impact upon adjacent properties and/or the character and general
nature of a residential neighborhood shall not be permitted except by review
and conditional use approval of the Board of Zoning Appeals, including, but not
be limited to:
      (1)   Animal hospitals, kennels or obedience schools;
      (2)   Medical, dental or veterinary clinics with two or more practioners;
      (3)   Retail sale of merchandise, household goods or food products
produced off-site and in excess of that permitted in division (C)(9) above;
      (4)   Automobile, truck, recreational vehicle, boat or small engine
repair, detailing or painting;
      (5)   Eating or drinking establishments;
      (6)   Barber or beauty salons;
      (7)   Major appliance or large equipment repair;
      (8)   Art, music, dance, exercise or martial arts studios with more than
five pupils on premises at any one time; and
      (9)   Facilities engaged in the fabrication of consumer products from
wood, metal, plastic or other raw or pre-fabricated materials.
   (E)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall additionally review all applications
in accordance with §
153.234 and shall not approve a conditional home occupation if it is determined
that it will constitute a nuisance. The Board shall have the authority to
attach additional conditions and/or requirements to preserve the general
character and nature of the neighborhood, minimize any potential adverse
impacts of the proposed use and to ensure that a nuisance is not created.
   (F)   Any activity conducted in violation of this chapter or in violation of
conditions of a permit issued shall be subject to the enforcement, violation
and remedy provisions of §§
153.195 through
153.201.
(Prior Code, § 27.05.10)
§ 153.124 BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS.
   Where allowed in individual zoning districts, pursuant to this chapter, a
bed and breakfast establishment may be permitted by the Board of Zoning
Appeals, provided that said establishment has no more than four bedrooms used
for short-term lodging, and provided that adequate ingress and egress from
parking areas is designed so as to cause minimum interference with traffic on
abutting streets.
(Prior Code, § 27.05.11) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.125 HEIGHT REGULATIONS FOR STRUCTURES.
   The height regulations prescribed herein shall not apply to television and
radio towers, church spires, belfries, monuments, tanks, water and fire towers,
stage towers or scenery lofts, cooling towers, ornamental towers and spires,
chimneys, silos and similar structures, elevator bulkheads, smokestacks,
conveyors or flagpoles.
(Prior Code, § 27.05.12)
§ 153.126 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR SINGLE- AND MULTI-FAMILY DWELLINGS.
   (A)   All single- and multi-family dwellings, including permanently sited
manufactured homes and industrialized units, shall have a complete and
permanent foundation under all exterior walls.
   (B)   Manufactured homes, industrialized units or any building or structure
used for residential purposes which do not meet this requirement shall be
considered mobile homes or temporary structures.
(Prior Code, § 27.05.13.01) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.127 NUMBER OF BUILDINGS RESTRICTED.
   In any zoning district where single- or multi-family dwellings, including
permanently sited manufactured homes, are a principally permitted use, there
shall not be more than one principal dwelling structure on a single lot of
record unless application for and approval of a variance is obtained by the
Board of Zoning Appeals or the development site has prior approval by the City
Planning Commission and City Council as a planned unit development.
(Prior Code, § 27.05.13.02) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.128 OUTDOOR DISPLAY, STORAGE AND/OR SALE OF MATERIALS AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No person shall display, rent or sell any merchandise or products on
any private lot or lands within the city, except within a permanently
constructed building unless a permit for a temporary outdoor sale has been
issued by the Zoning Officer or without a permit if the display, storage and
sale of such merchandise or products is exempted as herein described. It is the
intent and purpose of this chapter to allow for the reasonable display and
duration of display of commercially available merchandise, to prohibit the
infringement of business activity in established residential areas, to regulate
term and frequency of sales so as to maintain attractive business districts and
residential neighborhoods and to allow for the occasional sale of household
goods and personal items.
   (B)   The display and sale of nursery stock, plants, fruits and vegetables
or any other merchandise not normally stored or offered for sale in a building
such as firewood, straw, mulch, top soil, yard care equipment, car care
products, vending machines or any other merchandise not fit or safe for indoor
storage or the sale, rental or leasing of new or used autos, boats,
recreational vehicles and equipment, trucks and agricultural or construction
equipment and the dispensing of motor fuels and motor vehicle products shall be
an exempt business activity in commercial or industrial zoning districts when
display, rent or sale of such products is part of a normal business activity
and the business is compliant with all applicable zoning district regulations
for the type of use.
   (C)   It is the intent of this section to provide for temporary outdoor
sales without a permit which are clearly a temporary accessory use to a
permitted or conditionally permitted permanent business activity provided such
outdoor sales do not conflict with other applicable codes. Specific uses herein
described shall be allowed without a permit or by separately established City
Council ordinance permitting such use. The following regulations shall apply to
all temporary outdoor business sales activities located in commercial or
industrial zoning districts.
      (1)   Temporary outdoor sales, rentals, leasing and special sales events/
or merchandise normally offered for sale indoors shall not be subject to the
requirements of this chapter and may be permitted allowed within any commercial
or industrial district without a permit for a maximum of seven events per year
with each event no longer than four days in duration. Temporary outdoor sales
shall include sidewalk sales, inventory reduction sales, liquidation sales and
similar temporary outdoor sales of merchandise normally offered for sale
indoors. Permits may be issued for more events or events longer in duration
upon approval of a temporary outdoor sale permit issued by the Zoning Officer
and upon forms available at the office of the City Manager. The fee for such
permit shall be established by separate City Council ordinance.
      (2)   Transient vendor or peddler permits issued pursuant to Chapter 113
shall not be subject to the requirements of this subchapter and may be issued
in addition to this chapter.
      (3)   Use of public sidewalks, subject to §
91.05(B), for the display and sale of merchandise of adjacent business uses and
where merchandise is only displayed during normal operating business hours
shall not be subject to the requirements of this chapter.
      (4)   Seasonal merchandise sales, including items such as vegetable
plants or flowers, fertilizer, mulch, peat moss and similar landscape products;
lawn and garden equipment, such as mowers, snow blowers, wheel barrows and
other large lawn and garden equipment; and items symbolic of religious,
national or traditional holidays such as Christmas trees and wreaths, pumpkins
and the like shall not be subject to the requirements of this chapter.
      (5)   Outdoor display and sale of merchandise associated with an
exhibition and special event permit issued pursuant to §
94.01 such as Parade of the Hills, Nelsonville Music Festival, Final Fridays on
the Square and the Ohio Smoked Meat Festival shall not be subject to the
requirements of this chapter.
      (6)   Outdoor display and sale of merchandise on the premises of a
business use shall not be subject to the requirements of this chapter if the
items displayed are returned indoors at the close of each business day.
      (7)   Canopies, stands, tents or similar temporary structures may be
utilized, provided they do not impair access to the site by emergency vehicles
or the safe and efficient movement of vehicle or pedestrian traffic entering or
exiting the site. Such tents or other temporary structures shall not occupy any
parking spaces required for the minimum requirements of the principal uses on
the site. The minimum required number of off-street parking spaces shall be
maintained during the duration of the sale.
      (8)   Temporary outdoor sales shall not be permitted in any required
front, side or rear yard setback.
      (9)   Delivery trucks, semi-trailers and the like storing merchandise or
products may not be parked in any required front, side or rear yard setback,
and shall not occupy any required off-street parking spaces.
      (10)   Temporary outdoor sales shall not occupy any part of the public
right-of-way, except sidewalk sales as otherwise permitted by this chapter.
      (11)   Signage related to the sale shall be in compliance with §
153.130 for the appropriate zoning district where the property is located. Use
of the adjacent public right-of-way shall be allowed so long as the signage
does not endanger public safety, adversely distract vehicle drivers’ attention,
encroach upon the driving surface of the adjacent street or highway, obstruct
vision for traffic safety or otherwise constitute a public nuisance.
   (D)   It is the intent of this section to provide for temporary outdoor or
indoor sales of personal and household items of a resident of a premises in a
residential zoning district provided such sale does not conflict with other
applicable codes. Activity and events herein described shall be allowed without
permit or by separately established ordinances permitting other specific uses.
The following regulations shall apply to all temporary outdoor or indoor
residential garage sales, porch sales, patio sales, yard sales, lawn sales or
similar sales.
      (1)   Not more than four sales shall be permitted in any calendar year,
shall be no more than three days in duration.
      (2)   Sales shall not commence prior to 8:00 a.m. and shall occur
thereafter during daylight hours only.
      (3)   Signage related to the sale shall be in compliance with §
153.130 for the appropriate zoning district where the property is located.
Signs advertising the sale shall be permitted on the premises or on the public
right-of-way adjacent to the property so long as the signage does not endanger
public safety, adversely distract vehicle drivers’ attention, encroach upon the
driving surface of the adjacent street or highway, obstruct vision for traffic
safety or otherwise constitute a public nuisance. Signs shall not be posted
off-site on utility poles, public utilities such as traffic control panels or
on private property except with the permission of the property owner. Signs
shall be removed no longer than 24 hours after the conclusion of the event.
      (4)   Sale merchandise is limited to household and personal items and
shall not include separately obtained or purchased items or merchandise where
the sale of such items would constitute a business activity or otherwise
constitute a business use required to be located in a commercial or industrial
zoning district.
(Prior Code, § 27.05.14) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.129 TEMPORARY BUILDINGS.
   Temporary buildings may be permitted by the Zoning Officer in any district
under the following conditions one-time per calendar year.
   (A)   The activity or purpose for the building is a permitted use within the
district, with the exception of a building used for a community or charitable
event one time per calendar year.
   (B)   The entire structure is removed from the premises within 30 days of
being placed or erected on any property or for any business or owners except
that bona-fide non-profit or community organizations may request that the Board
of Zoning Appeals extend the 30 days for a set period.
   (C)   All structures so approved shall comply with applicable building codes
and shall comply with all setback requirements.
(Prior Code, § 27.05.15)
§ 153.130 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Intent. The purpose of this section is to permit such signs that will
not endanger the public safety of individuals; confuse or obstruct vision
necessary for traffic safety; constitute a public nuisance; constitute sign
blight which adversely impacts the aesthetics, vitality and value of the city’s
commercial areas; constitute an unattractive, garish or unproductive sign which
detracts from the appearance of the city; or which detract from the maintenance
of high quality residential zones in the city.
   (B)   Regulations established and application.
      (1)   Signs shall be erected, altered, reconstructed, moved and
maintained, in whole or in part, in accordance with the type, size, location,
illumination and other provisions set forth in this chapter.
      (2)   The construction, erection, safety and maintenance of all signs
shall be in accordance with the applicable city ordinances
      (3)    The provisions of this chapter shall not amend or in any way
interfere with other ordinances, rules or regulations governing traffic signs
within the municipality.
      (4)   The display of official public notices and the flag, emblem or
insignia of all U.S. governmental bodies shall not be governed by the
provisions of this section.
   (C)   Public right-of-way. Except as specifically authorized herein, no sign
of any type shall be placed within the right-of-way line of any public street
or roadway except as provided by revocable license. (See R.C. § 723.121.)
   (D)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLASS B SIGNS. Off-premises signs advertising any product, service,
performance or event at a location other than where the sign is located.
      NON-CONFORMING SIGNS. Signs which are lawfully in existence on the
effective date of the ordinance but does not conform to the regulations.
      PORTABLE SIGNS. A sign not permanently affixed to a building, structure
or the ground and can be moved from one location to another. These signs may be
displayed for a maximum of 30 days at one time up to four times per year.
      PRIMARY CLASS A SIGNS.
         (a)   On-premises ground signs or signs attached to a building which
advertise any product, service or identify the business by name. These signs
are the principal advertising for the parcel or lot where one or more business
entities are located, and include, but are not limited to, any display, figure,
painting, drawing, placard, poster or other exterior device visible from a
public right-of-way, which is designed, intended or used to convey a message,
advertise, inform or direct attention to a building, person, institution,
organization, activity, place, object or product.
         (b)   In single-family residential neighborhoods, rental or home
occupation signs shall be permitted provided they are in keeping with the
character of the neighborhood and do not create a nuisance for neighbors. Signs
which are not well maintained or are not of acceptable appearance may be
required to be removed.
      SECONDARY CLASS A SIGNS. The same as above except they provide
advertising for an individual business on a lot where several businesses are
located.
      TEMPORARY ADVERTISING DEVICES (TADS). Banners, pennants, streamers,
pinwheels, flags (other than national, state, religious or fraternal),
windsocks, balloons or other gas-filled figures which are used to promote a
special event, sale or product. The signs can be displayed no more than four
times per calendar year for a maximum of 30 days each time.
   (E)   Size.
      (1)   Primary Class A signs shall be allowed two and one-half square feet
per linear foot of total street frontage of the lot or parcel but shall not
exceed a total of 350 square feet.
      (2)   Secondary Class A signs. Each separate business establishment shall
be allowed one square foot of surface area of sign for each linear foot of
building frontage of the business up to a maximum of 100 square feet.
      (3)   Class B signs shall not exceed 400 square feet in surface area.
   (F)   Permits. Prior to the erection, construction, installation or
alteration of any sign, a permit shall be obtained from the Zoning Officer.
This does not include normal maintenance of any sign. Signs must be erected
within one year of the permit issuance.
   (G)   Non-conforming signs. Non-conforming signs shall be required to comply
with this chapter if:
      (1)   The sign is removed, dismantled or relocated;
      (2)   The sign has been determined to be a hazard to the life, safety,
property or welfare of the public;
      (3)   The sign has deteriorated or been damaged to an extent that its
value is less than 50% of its replacement value; or
      (4)   The sign advertises a business, product, service or event no longer
open or available to the public.
   (H)   Exempt signs. Exempt signs include the following:
      (1)   Professional nameplates or occupational signs not exceeding two
square feet in area listing the names, location or business of an occupant
within a building;
      (2)   Legal notices;
      (3)   Street addresses not exceeding ten square feet in area;
      (4)   Bulletin boards or directories for public, charitable or religious
institution located on the premises and not exceeding 40 square feet in area;
      (5)   Signs denoting the architect, engineer, contractor and the like
where construction is occurring. These signs must be removed within ten days
after the project’s completion;
      (6)   Signs advertising future construction or lease of a parcel
providing the sign does not exceed 40 square feet in a residential area or 200
square feet in a commercial area. The signs shall be allowed for six months or
until the building is occupied, whichever comes first;
      (7)   Signs advertising property for sale or rent. This is limited to one
sign on a single-family residential lot not to exceed the standard signs used
by area realtors. Signs must be removed within ten days of the sale or lease of
the property;
      (8)   Dedicatory tablets or memorial plaques setting forth the name or
erection date of a building, commemorating a person or persons and like uses.
Such signs shall be cast in metal or engraved in stone or concrete or otherwise
suitably inscribed in or on a monumental material;
      (9)   Non-structural signs consisting of letters, numerals or
ornamentation painted or applied to awnings and canopies. No business shall
have more than ten square feet of area of said signs without a permit;
      (10)   Identification signs at the entrance to residences, farms,
ranches, estates and the like which do not exceed 12 square feet in area;
      (11)   Vehicle signs located on a truck, bus, trailer or taxi, being
operated or parked on premises in the course of business provided the primary
purpose of the said vehicle is not an advertisement;
      (12)   Directional signs or symbols such as “exit”, “no trespassing” and
the like;
      (13)   Traffic or other signs erected by municipal, county, state or
federal authorities;
      (14)   Street identification signs and entrance signs giving the name of
a subdivision provided that the total number of signs is two or less, they are
located at the main entrance only, shall not exceed a combined total of more
than 100 square feet in area and do not contain any other advertising;
      (15)   Temporary signs advertising activities of educational, religious,
charitable or other nonprofit institutions. Signs advertising a yard sale or
special event at a residence; however, these signs must be removed after the
event or sale has concluded;
      (16)   Political signs;
      (17)   Flags indicating weather conditions or national or state flags or
insignias of any governmental agency or civic, charitable, religious or
fraternal organization;
      (18)   Athletic scoreboards; and
      (19)   Holiday decorations.
   (I)   Permit application and fees.
      (1)   All applications for sign permits shall be made to the Zoning
Officer and shall include a drawing to scale showing the description of the
sign including size, type, materials and approximate location on the property.
      (2)   If the Zoning Officer determines the sign is within these
guidelines, a permit shall be issued and the sign shall be erected within one
year of the permit issuance.
      (3)   A fee established by separate ordinance will be charged per
application for signs which do not meet the classification of a temporary
advertising device.
   (J)   Prohibited signs. Prohibited signs include the following:
      (1)   Any sign creating a traffic hazard;
      (2)   Signs which prevent free ingress or egress from any entrance,
window, fire escape or attached to a standpipe;
      (3)   Signs deemed by community standards to be obscene or which
constitute a public nuisance;
      (4)   Signs which contain lights that exceed ten candle power per square
foot of sign;
      (5)   Signs affixed to a tree or utility pole; and
      (6)   Roof signs.
   (K)   Restrictions. Restrictions include the following.
      (1)   Signs over walkways or driveways which are not at least eight feet
above the surface of the walkway or driveway. Any sign located within the
designated parking area of any property shall have a planter around the base
not less than 18 inches high and a minimum of 18 inches from any extremity of
said sign.
      (2)   No ground sign shall have a total height greater than 30 feet in
commercial areas or 15 feet in the downtown commercial district.
      (3)   No signs shall be maintained in such location or position as to
present any unsightly or objectionable unfinished side towards an adjacent
property.
      (4)   (a)   Signs in single-family neighborhoods shall be constructed of
wood and shall be affixed to the residence or attached to a post, less than
four feet in height. The sign shall include only the name of the business,
proprietor and hours, telephone number and the like. If both sides of the sign
are visible, each side must have a finished surface.
         (b)   The sign cannot exceed 20 square feet of surface area.
      (5)   Sandwich boards or easels used in the normal course of daily
business may be displayed without obtaining a permit. However, these signs
cannot be placed in a location that would hinder parking or pedestrian traffic
and may be displayed outdoors only during business hours.
      (6)   A portable sign in a residential neighborhood may be used without a
permit for up to seven days to announce a birthday or other special event
without the home owner applying for a permit. The sign may be lighted between
the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. only. After seven days, the sign must be
removed or a permit application must be filed.
   (L)   Penalties. The penalty for violation of the sign regulations shall be
in accordance with §§
153.195 through
153.201.
(Prior Code, § 27.05.16) Penalty, see §
153.999
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING FACILITIES
§ 153.145 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   No building or structure shall be erected, substantially altered
or changed in use, including creation of converted dwelling units, unless
permanently developed and maintained off-street parking and/or loading spaces
have been provided in accordance with this section or a variance granted by the
Board of Zoning Appeals or Design Review Board.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the term CONVERTED DWELLING UNIT
shall mean:
         (a)   An existing, residential, owner-occupied dwelling unit converted
by lease, rent or agreement for occupancy by those other than the owner or his
or her family; or
         (b)   An existing commercial, industrial or institutional use or space
converted to residential use.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any existing
building, structure or use lawfully existing prior to the effective date of
this section. Such use or building with deficient parking shall be considered a
legal, non-conforming use and may be continued until such time as divisions (A)
above and divisions (C) or (D) below may apply.
   (C)   Whenever a building or structure constructed after the effective date
of this section and in compliance with this chapter is changed in use, enlarged
in floor area, substantially increased in number of employees, increased in
number of dwelling units, substantially increased in seating capacity or
otherwise requires a need for an increase to existing parking spaces,
additional spaces shall be provided according to the extent of enlargement or
change of use.
   (D)   Whenever a building or structure existing prior to the effective date
of this section is enlarged to an extent of 50% or greater in usable floor
area, substantially increased in number of employees, increased in number of
dwelling units, substantially increased in seating capacity, increased in
residential occupancy by addition of bedrooms, reviewed by the Design Review
Board in accordance with the requirements of the Historic Preservation District
or otherwise changed to demand additional parking, such building, structure or
use shall then and thereafter comply with the full parking requirements set
forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 27.05.17.01) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.146 GENERAL INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation of this section, the following rules shall govern.
   (A)   Parking requirements for principally or conditionally permitted uses
not specifically listed in this section shall be determined by the Zoning
Officer based on similar uses. The Board of Zoning Appeals may hear and decide
appeals from such determination of the Zoning Officer.
   (B)   Fractional numbers shall be rounded up to the nearest whole number.
   (C)   When there exists justifiable reason for fewer parking spaces than
required by this section, the Board of Zoning Appeals or the Design Review
Board, whichever may have jurisdiction, may reduce the number of spaces
proportionately to the reduced or diminished demand.
(Prior Code, § 27.05.17.02)
§ 153.147 PARKING SPACE DIMENSIONS.
   (A)   A parking space shall be not less nine feet in width, 20 feet in depth
or a size determined by the Zoning Officer as adequate for parking considering,
but not limited to:
      (1)   The angle of the parking space in relation to the access aisle; or
      (2)   The type and size of the vehicle using the space.
   (B)   All dimensions shall be exclusive of areas of access including aisles,
drives and other vehicular circulation areas. Except for structures containing
one single-family dwelling unit where tandem parking is permitted, there shall
be adequate provision for ingress and egress to all parking spaces as
determined by the Zoning Officer, as determined by standard engineering
practices. The number of required parking spaces shall be in accordance with §
153.160.
(Prior Code, § 27.05.17.03) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.148 LOADING SPACE REQUIREMENT AND DIMENSIONS.
   (A)   Loading spaces required for buildings containing nonresidential,
commercial and/or industrial uses shall be not less than 12 feet in width, 50
feet in depth and 15 feet in height, excluding drives, aisles and circulation
areas or a size determined by the Zoning Officer as adequate based on the type
of vehicle using the space.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, LOADING SPACE shall mean an area
where:
      (1)   Commercial or private vehicles pick-up and/or deliver goods and
wares; or
      (2)   Private passenger vehicles pick-up or drop off persons using a
facility and may include, but not be limited to, personal vehicles, taxis or
motor coaches.
   (C)   One loading space shall be required for a use having up to 5,000
square feet in gross floor area and one additional space for every additional
10,000 square feet of gross floor area or portion thereof. Uses requiring
loading spaces include, but are not limited to, schools, churches, hospitals,
business offices, hotels and motels, retail, wholesale, storage and
manufacturing facilities, theaters, places of assembly and others determined by
the Zoning Officer.
(Prior Code, § 27.05.17.04) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.149 PAVING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The number of parking and loading spaces required by this section,
including driveways, aisles and other circulation areas, shall be improved with
a finished surface of asphalt, concrete or other durable material approved by
the Zoning Officer.
   (B)   Durable surface finish material shall also be required for parking
lots and other newly created parking spaces not otherwise required by this
chapter in association with a use requirement.
   (C)   Parking spaces existing prior to the effective date of this chapter
which do not meet the paving requirements shall be maintained at a minimum with
a surface of stone or other suitable material so as to comply with §
70.07 which prohibits the placement of mud, earth or other materials upon a
public street.
(Prior Code, § 27.05.17.05) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.150 DRAINAGE.
   All parking and loading spaces shall be drained to a public storm drainage
utility or natural drainage way so as to prevent surface water from causing
detriment to adjacent properties, uses, public walkways and/or public streets.
(Prior Code, § 27.05.17.06) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.151 LIGHTING.
   Lighting of parking areas, if necessary, shall be determined by the Zoning
Officer considering the type of use, number of spaces, principal hours of use
or operation and other factors related to safety and security. Lighting
illuminating a parking area shall be so arranged and directed as to reflect
light toward the ground, not adversely impact traffic and away from adjoining
properties which may be adversely impacted, particularly residential use.
(Prior Code, § 27.05.17.07) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.152 MAINTENANCE.
   The owner of property used for parking and/or loading shall maintain such
area in good condition, free of holes, dust, dirt, trash and other debris or
hazard.
(Prior Code, § 27.05.17.08) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.153 LOCATION OF PARKING SPACES.
   (A)   Required parking for all residential uses shall be on the same lot,
parcel or tract where the use is located or on a continuous and contiguous lot
in the same ownership as the intended use and reserved by covenant, deed
restriction or common sale and transfer so that the availability of the parking
be preserved.
   (B)   Required parking for commercial, industrial and/or institutional uses
shall not be located not more than 700 feet from the principal building or use.
   (C)   Required parking for apartments or other multi-family residential uses
shall not be more than 300 feet from the principal building or use.
(Prior Code, § 27.05.17.09) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.154 JOINT USE.
   Two or more nonresidential uses may jointly provide, use and share required
parking spaces when their normal hours of operation do not conflict or overlap,
provided that it is so determined and approved by the Zoning Officer and a
written and notarized agreement between the parties involved is filed with the
application for zoning certificate.
(Prior Code, § 27.05.17.10) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.155 ENCROACHMENT AND SCREENING.
   Whenever a parking space or spaces extend to a property line or a public
right-of-way, wheel blocks or other devices approved by the Zoning Officer
shall be installed to preclude extension of any part of the vehicle beyond the
lot, parcel or tract. Whenever parking spaces for commercial, industrial and/or
institutional uses are adjacent to properties zoned or used for residential
purposes, there shall exist a fence or planting buffer determined by the Zoning
Officer as sufficient to minimize adverse impact to the adjacent property.
(Prior Code, § 27.05.17.11) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.156 WIDTH OF DRIVEWAY AND ACCESS AISLES.
   Notwithstanding the access requirements of § 27.05.07.02, driveways serving
single- or two-family dwelling units shall be a minimum of ten feet in width,
for all other uses 12 feet in width with one-way traffic and single loaded or
parallel parking, and 24 feet in width where parking aisles accommodate two-way
traffic and/or double loaded parking, or other width determined sufficient by
the Zoning Officer using standard engineering practices and based on the type
and number of vehicles using the driveway and/or aisle.
(Prior Code, § 27.05.17.12) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.157 OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person, organization or entity capable of holding title to real estate
shall access a public street or alley until obtaining an opening permit from
the City Manager. Such permit shall be reviewed in accordance with the access
management plan and regulations of the city or other traffic management plans,
including, but not limited to, those of the State Department of Transportation.
(Prior Code, § 27.05.17.13) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.158 PARKING RESTRICTED TO CERTAIN AREAS.
   (A)   No person in charge or having control of any private property or
premises within the corporate limits of the city, whether as owner, operator,
agent, tenant, lease holder, firm, corporation or entity capable of holding
title of real property shall park or store any vehicle or equipment which is:
      (1)   In front of one or two-family dwellings or legal, non-conforming
uses located in R-1 or R-2 zones, except in front of an attached or detached
building, garage, carport or open parking area not in front of the principal
structure. On corner lots or lots having more than one property line abutting a
public street, these restrictions shall extent to those areas of the structure
as if it fronted on only a single street. Vehicle or equipment parking shall
not be permitted on a permanent basis on areas not paved or graveled except as
otherwise provided in this section or on a temporary basis if approved by the
Zoning Officer; and
      (2)   Abandoned, junk, abandoned junk, unlicensed, unused, wrecked,
dismantled, partly dismantled or inoperable, including licensed or unlicensed
inoperable collector’s vehicles and licensed or unlicensed inoperable
historical vehicles, whether owned by him or her or another person on any
street or highway or public or private property or premises for a period not to
exceed 30 days, except in a duly licensed junkyard, automobile salvage yard,
motor vehicle salvage dealer’s yard or towing service yard. The absence of
current license plates from any such motor vehicle shall be prima facie
evidence that the same is unlicensed and not in operating condition.
      (3)   Vehicles subject to division (A)(2) above which are not stored in
an exempted facility shall be stored out of view inside a completely enclosed
building or garage or under a covered carport but not including a vehicle only
covered by a vehicle cover, tarp or cloth.
   (B)   No person in charge or having control of any private property or
premises within a residential zone or property used for residential purposes
within the corporate limits of the city, whether as owner, operator, agent,
tenant, lease holder, firm, corporation or entity capable of holding title of
real property shall park or store on any street or highway or public or private
property or premises any:
      (1)   Commercial vehicle, semi-trailer, truck tractor, tractor trailer,
heavy truck, moving van, delivery truck, step-up van, box truck, dump truck,
tow truck, wrecker, bus, school bus, crane, dragline, earthmover, bulldozer,
backhoe, trencher or vehicle transporting hazardous or flammable materials
except one commercial vehicle not exceeding a gross weight of 8,500 pounds or
an overall height of 82 inches. An exempt vehicle must be parked in a
completely enclosed building or garage or on an approved hard-surfaced or
gravel driveway; or
      (2)   Recreational vehicle or equipment except one recreational vehicle
or piece of equipment not in excess of 24 feet in overall length and in
accordance with the following conditions.
         (a)   Recreational vehicles or equipment parked or stored shall not
have fixed connections to electricity, water, gas or sanitary sewer facilities,
and, at no time, shall this equipment be used for separate living or
housekeeping purposes.
         (b)   Recreational vehicles or equipment may be parked or stored
anywhere on the premises upon an approved hard-surface driveway or parking area
or out of view inside a completely enclosed building or garage or under a
covered carport. The vehicle or equipment shall be setback a minimum of five
feet from an adjacent property line.
         (c)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (B)(2)(a) above,
recreational vehicles and equipment, not in excess of 24 feet in overall
length, may be parked anywhere on the premises for loading or unloading
purposes for a period of not more than 24 hours.
         (d)   Recreational vehicles and equipment must be kept in good repair
and carry a valid registration and current license.
   (C)   Upon notice of a violation of this section, the Zoning Officer may, by
certified mail with return receipt requested, send notice to the person having
the right to the possession of the property on which is left a vehicle or
equipment subject to divisions (A)(2) or (B) above, send notice stating that
the vehicle or equipment is a public nuisance and within ten days of receipt of
the notice, such vehicle or equipment shall be stored in a completely enclosed
building or garage or under a covered carport, or shall be removed from the
property. Vehicles or equipment in violation of division (A)(1) above may also
store a licensed and operable vehicle or equipment on an approved hard-surfaced
or gravel driveway.
   (D)   Any person in violation of this section shall be deemed guilty of a
minor misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than
permitted by law for each day during which illegal location continues may be
deemed a separate offense.
   (E)   Upon conviction, the Zoning Officer, through the City Attorney, or any
adjacent or neighboring property owner who would be specially damaged by such
violation, in addition to other remedies provided by law, may institute
injunction, mandamus, abatement or any other appropriate action, actions,
proceeding or proceedings to prevent, enjoin, abate or remove such unlawful
location.
   (F)   The Zoning Officer, after ten days’ notice to any person subject to
this division (F) and upon notification to the Chief of Police, may order
removal and storage of any vehicle or equipment that has been left on any
street or highway or public or private property or premises within the
corporate limits of the city subject to the following procedures.
      (1)   The Chief of Police shall designate the place of storage of any
vehicle or equipment so ordered removed. The Chief of Police immediately shall
cause a search to be made of the records of the Bureau of Motor Vehicles to
ascertain the owner and any lienholder of a vehicle or equipment ordered into
storage by the Zoning Officer, and, if known, shall send or cause to be sent
notice to the owner or lienholder at the owner’s or lienholder’s last known
address by certified mail with return receipt requested, stating that the
vehicle is a public nuisance and shall be disposed of if not claimed within ten
days of the date of mailing of the notice. The owner or lienholder of the
vehicle or equipment may reclaim it upon payment of any expenses or charges
incurred in its removal and storage, and presentation of proof of ownership,
which may be evidenced by a certificate of title or memorandum certificate of
title to the vehicle or equipment. If the owner or lienholder of the vehicle or
equipment reclaims it after a search of the records of the bureau has been
conducted and after notice has been sent to the owner or lienholder as
described in this section, and the search was conducted by the owner of the
place of storage or the owner’s employee, and the notice was sent to the
vehicle or equipment owner by the owner of the place of storage or the owner’s
employee, the owner or lienholder shall pay to the place of storage a
processing fee of $25, in addition to any expenses or charges incurred in the
removal and storage of the vehicle.
      (2)   The owner of a vehicle or equipment that is ordered into storage
pursuant to this section may reclaim it upon payment of any expenses or charges
incurred in its removal, in an amount not to exceed $90, and storage, in an
amount not to exceed $12 per 24-hour period; except that the charge for towing
shall not exceed $150, and the storage charge shall not exceed $20 per 24-hour
period, if the vehicle or equipment has a manufacturer’s gross vehicle weight
rating in excess of 10,000 pounds and is a truck, bus or a combination of a
commercial tractor and trailer or semi-trailer. Presentation of proof of
ownership, which may be evidenced by a certificate of title to the vehicle or
equipment, shall also be required for reclamation of the vehicle or equipment.
If a vehicle or equipment that is ordered into storage remains unclaimed by the
owner for 30 days, the procedures established in this section shall apply.
      (3)   (a)   If the owner or lienholder makes no claim to the vehicle or
equipment within ten days of the date of mailing of the notice, and if the
vehicle is to be disposed of at public auction, as provided in R.C. § 4513.62,
the Chief of Police, without charge to any party, shall file with the County
Clerk of Courts an affidavit showing compliance with the requirements of this
section. Upon presentation of the affidavit, the Clerk, without charge, shall
issue a salvage certificate of title, free and clear of all liens end
encumbrances, to the Chief of Police.
         (b)   If the vehicle or equipment is to be disposed of to an
automobile salvage yard, junkyard, motor vehicle salvage dealer, scrap metal
processing facility, towing service yard or other facility designated by the
Chief of Police, the Chief shall execute in triplicate an affidavit, as
prescribed by the registrar of motor vehicles, describing the vehicle or
equipment and the manner in which it was disposed of, and that all requirements
of this section have been complied with. The Chief of Police shall retain the
original of the affidavit for the Chief’s records, and shall furnish two copies
to the automobile salvage yard, junkyard, motor vehicle salvage dealer, scrap
metal processing facility, towing service yard or other facility where the
vehicle or equipment has been ordered into storage by the Chief of Police. Upon
presentation of a copy of the affidavit by the automobile salvage yard,
junkyard, motor vehicle salvage dealer, scrap metal processing facility, towing
service yard or other facility, the Clerk of Courts, within 30 days of the
presentation, shall issue to such owner a salvage certificate of title, free
and clear of all liens and encumbrances.
      (4)   Whenever an automobile salvage yard, junkyard, motor vehicle
salvage dealer, scrap metal processing facility, towing service yard or other
facility where the vehicle or equipment has been ordered into storage by the
Chief of Police receives an affidavit for the disposal of a vehicle or
equipment as provided in this section, the dealer or facility shall not be
required to obtain a state certificate of title to the motor vehicle in the
dealer’s or facility’s own name if the vehicle is dismantled or destroyed and
both copies of the affidavit are delivered to the Clerk of Courts.
(Prior Code, § 27.05.17.14)
§ 153.159 PARKING WITHIN A HISTORIC PRESERVATION DISTRICT.
   (A)   In exercising its jurisdiction over properties and uses in the
Historic Preservation District, the Design Review Board shall have authority to
grant variances from this chapter. Applications for variance shall be attached
to an application for certificate of appropriateness for activities and uses in
the Historic Preservation District. Such request shall be reviewed by the
Review Board and advertised in a manner consistent with the notification
requirements of §
153.243.
   (B)   Variance requests for off-street parking in all other zoning districts
other than the Historic Preservation District shall be considered by the Board
of Zoning Appeals pursuant to the conditions in §
153.243.
(Prior Code, § 27.05.17.15)
§ 153.160 PARKING SPACE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the term USABLE FLOOR AREA shall be
the total floor area exclusively for tenant or business use, including sales
areas, stock areas, basements, mezzanines or upper floors and measured in areas
or areas, such as toilet rooms, closets, corridors, stairwells, elevators and
shafts, machine, equipment and mechanical rooms, lobbies and vestibules or
other areas not used for commercial, industrial or institutional purposes.
   (B)   The following parking space requirements shall apply.
Off-Street Parking Requirements
Type of Use Parking Spaces Required*
Off-Street Parking Requirements
Type of Use                             Parking Spaces Required*
Banks, saving and loans and similar     1 per 250 feet of usable floor area
uses
Barber shop and beauty salon            2 per work station
Boarding houses and rooming houses      1 per sleeping room
Business, trade or technical school,    1 per each 2 students and 1 per faculty
high school, college or university      member
Church or place of worship, auditoriums 1 per 3 seats
and theaters
Civic, social or fraternal place of     1 per 3 persons of permitted capacity
assembly
Funeral home                            1 per 400 square feet of usable floor
                                        area
Gasoline and service stations on a      1 per pump and/or repair bay and 1 per
shift                                   employee on a shift
Hospitals and nursing homes             1 per 4 beds plus 1 per employee on a
                                        shift
Hotel, motel and bed and breakfast      1 per sleeping room plus 1 per employee
                                        on a shift
Library                                 1 per 400 square feet of usable floor
                                        area
Manufacturing, wholesale, storage and   1 per each two employees on a shift
freight terminals
Medical or dental office or clinic      4 per practitioner
Nursery school and day-care             1 per each 5 children
One-, two- or multi-family dwellings
including apartments, converted         2 per dwelling unit
dwelling units, mobile homes and
permanently sited manufactured homes
Professional, business or               1 per 400 square feet of usable floor
administrative office use               area
Public or private elementary or junior  2 per classroom and 1 per 8 auditorium
high school                             seats
Retail stores                           1 per 200 square feet of usable floor
                                        area
Self-serve laundry                      1 per each 3 washers
Taverns, night clubs, restaurants,      1 per 250 square feet of usable floor
dining rooms and eating places          area
Veterinary or animal clinic             3 per practitioner
* In the case of uses not specifically listed, the Zoning Official shall
determine the number of spaces required by comparison to a similar use or if
there exists no comparable use he or she may refer the matter to the Board of
Zoning Appeals for interpretation and/or determination.
 
(Prior Code, § 27.05.17.16)
NON-CONFORMITIES
§ 153.175 CONTINUANCE OF NON-CONFORMING USES.
   Any lawful use of buildings or land existing at the effective date of this
chapter or any relevant amendment hereto may be continued, even though such use
does not conform to the provisions hereof. The non-conforming use of a building
may be extended throughout those existing parts of the building that were
arranged or designed for such use but not into areas of a building designed,
constructed and previously used for uses conforming to the regulations of the
district in which the structure is located, except with the approval of the
Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Prior Code, § 27.06.01.01)
§ 153.176 EXPANSION OR ENLARGEMENT OF NON-CONFORMING USES.
   No non-conforming building or structure nor conforming or non-conforming
building or structure containing a non-conforming use shall be moved, extended,
enlarged or altered and no non-conforming use of land shall be expanded, except
with the approval of the Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Prior Code, § 27.06.01.02) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.177 DISCONTINUANCE OF NON-CONFORMING USES.
   A non-conforming use which is discontinued for a period of one year shall
not again be used except in conformity with the use regulations of the district
in which it is located, including, but not limited to, off-street parking
requirements.
(Prior Code, § 27.06.01.03) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.178 RECONSTRUCTION OF NON-CONFORMING USES.
   A building containing a non-conforming use which has been damaged by fire,
explosion, act of God or the public enemy less than 50% of its fair market
value may be repaired or reconstructed, and used as before the time of the
damage; provided such repairs or reconstruction are started within one year of
the date of such damage and completed within two years. If repair or
reconstruction is not started within the one-year period, then it shall not be
restored and reused as before such damage except in conformity with the
regulations of the district in which it is located. Any building containing a
non-conforming use damaged greater than 50% of its fair market value shall not
be restored and used as before such damage unless it conforms to the
development and use regulations of the district in which it is located,
including provisions of the flood damage reduction ordinance, historic
preservation ordinance and off-street parking requirements, except with the
approval of the Board of Zoning Appeals or Design Review Committee.
(Prior Code, § 27.06.01.04) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.179 NON-CONFORMING MOBILE HOMES.
   Mobile homes, trailers, industrialized units and manufactured homes that do
not meet the definition of permanently sited manufactured homes and are located
outside a manufactured home park licensed by the State Manufactured Homes
Commission shall be considered non-conforming uses and subject to the
continuous use requirements of §
153.177. Any such structure once removed, damaged in extent greater than 50% of
its fair market value or left unoccupied for more than one year shall not be
restored, replaced or reoccupied and used as before such removal, damage or
abandonment.
(Prior Code, § 27.06.01.05) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.180 NON-CONFORMING USES UNDER CONSTRUCTION.
   Any building arranged, intended or designed for a non-conforming use, the
construction of which was started at the time of the passage of this chapter or
amendments hereto, must be both completed and put into such non-conforming use
within one year after this chapter or amendment hereto take effect.
(Prior Code, § 27.06.01.06) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.181 CHANGE OF NON-CONFORMING USES.
   An existing non-conforming use may be changed to another non-conforming use
provided that no structural alterations are proposed except as specifically
required by enforcement of other codes and regulations, and provided that prior
approval is granted by the Board of Zoning Appeals or Design Review Committee.
In considering such a change, the Board of Zoning Appeals or the Design Review
Committee may require specific conditions and additional development standards
to minimize adverse impacts to adjoining property.
(Prior Code, § 27.06.01.07)
§ 153.182 CONTINUANCE OF NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   Where a lawful structure exists at the time of the effective date of this
chapter or any amendment hereto that could not be built under the terms of this
chapter because of regulations on building size, lot coverage, height, yard
requirements or similar dimensional requirements, such structure may be
continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following
provisions.
   (A)   No such non-conforming structure may be enlarged or altered in a way
which increases its non-conformity, except with the approval of the Board of
Zoning Appeals or Design Review Committee, but any structure or portion thereof
may be altered to decrease its non-conformity.
   (B)   Non-conforming structure which has been damaged by fire, explosion,
act of God or the public enemy less than 50% of its fair market value may be
repaired or reconstructed, and used as before the time of the damage; provided
such repairs or reconstruction are started with in one year of the date of such
damage and completed within two years. If repair or reconstruction is not
started within the one-year period, then it shall not be restored except in
conformity with the development regulations of the district in which it is
located. Any structure damaged greater than 50% of its fair market value shall
not be reconstructed except in conformance with the development requirements of
the district which it is located, including, but not limited to, the flood
damage reduction ordinance, the historic preservation ordinance and off-street
parking requirements, except with the approval of the Board of Zoning Appeals
or Design Review Committee.
   (C)   Should a non-conforming structure, for any reason, be moved,
demolished, repaired or restored in an amount greater than 50% of its fair
market value, it shall thereafter conform with all of the development and use
regulations of the district in which it is located, including, but not limited
to, the flood damage reduction ordinance, the historic preservation ordinance
and off-street parking requirements, except with the approval of the Board of
Zoning Appeals or Design Review Committee.
(Prior Code, § 27.06.02.01) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.183 NON-CONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD.
   (A)   In any district, a permitted structure and customary accessory
buildings may be erected on any single lot of record after the effective date
of adoption of or amendment to this chapter, notwithstanding limitations
imposed by other provisions of this chapter. This provision shall apply even
though such lot fails to meet the requirements for area or width, or both. All
other requirements for development of the lot such as yard requirements and
maximum lot coverage shall conform to the regulations for the district in which
such lot is located. Variances from requirements other than non-conforming lot
area or lot width shall be obtained only through action of the Board of Zoning
Appeals.
   (B)   If two or more lots or combinations of lots and portions of lots with
or without continuous frontage are of record in single ownership at the time of
passage or amendment of this chapter contain a structure or structures and if
all or part of the lots do not meet the minimum requirements established for
lot width and area, the lands involved shall be considered to be an undivided
parcel for the purposes of this chapter and no portion of such parcel shall be
used, sold or divided in a manner which diminishes compliance with lot width
and area requirements stated in this chapter or
Chapter 151, whichever is the most restrictive.
   (C)   Prior to development or conditioned upon issuance of a zoning
certificate for one or more vacant, undeveloped, non-conforming lots where
there is a contiguous lot or lots in same ownership, said lot, lots or portions
thereof necessary to meet the minimum lot width and/or area requirements of
this chapter or Chapter 151, whichever is more restrictive, shall be required
either to be re-platted and a new metes and bounds description recorded with
the County Recorder or a new deed shall be recorded with the County Auditor for
said parcels containing language describing them to be and remain continuous
and contiguous.
   (D)   Prior to development or conditioned upon issuance of a zoning
certificate for two or more lots, conforming or non-conforming as to minimum
lot width and/or area requirements of this chapter or
Chapter 151, whichever is more restrictive, where such development is proposed
upon, over or above an existing property line and where such property is in
same ownership, said lots shall be required either to be re-platted and a new
metes and bounds description recorded with the County Recorder or a new deed
shall be recorded with the County Auditor for said parcels containing language
describing them to be and remain continuous and contiguous.
(Prior Code, § 27.06.03.01) Penalty, see §
153.999
ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.195 ZONING CERTIFICATES REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for an owner to use or to permit the use of
any structure, building or land, or part thereof, hereafter created, erected,
changed, converted or enlarged, wholly or partly, until a zoning certificate is
issued by a Zoning Officer.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Zoning Officer to issue a certificate,
once satisfied that the structure, building or premises and the proposed use
thereof conform to all the requirements of this chapter.
      (3)   No permit for excavation, construction or reconstruction shall be
issued by the Zoning Officer unless the plans, specifications and the intended
use conform to the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   A zoning certificate shall be required for any of the following,
except as herein provided:
      (1)   Construction or structural alteration of any building, including
accessory buildings;
      (2)   Change in use of an existing building or accessory building to a
use of a different classification;
      (3)   Occupancy and use of vacant land;
      (4)   Change in the use of land to a use of a different classification;
and
      (5)   Any change in the use of a non-conforming use.
(Prior Code, § 27.07.01.01) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.196 ZONING CERTIFICATES FOR EXISTING USES WHICH MAY BE NON-CONFORMING.
   Upon written request from the owner or tenant, the Zoning Officer shall
issue a zoning certificate for any building or premises existing at the time of
enactment of this chapter that certifies, after inspection, the extent and kind
of use made of the building and premises and whether such use conforms to the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 27.07.01.02)
§ 153.197 APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE OF ZONING CERTIFICATES.
   (A)   (1)   Written application shall be made for a zoning certificate for
the construction of a new building or the expansion or structural alteration of
an existing building. Said certificate shall be issued within 30 working days
after a complete written request for the same has been made to the Zoning
Officer or his or her agent, provided such construction or alteration is in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter and the off-street parking
regulations.
      (2)   Every application for a zoning certificate shall be accompanied by
a site plan and such other plans as may be necessary to show the location and
type of buildings to be erected or alterations to be made.
      (3)   Where construction or physical improvement of the land is involved,
the lot shall be staked out on the ground before construction is started, and
all dimensions shown on filed plans shall be true.
   (B)   Each plan shall show:
      (1)   The street providing access to the lot and the exact location of
the lot in relation to the nearest cross street;
      (2)   The name of the plan, if any, and the lot numbers of the abutting
properties;
      (3)   The actual dimensions of the lot, the yard and other open space
dimensions thereof, and the location and size of any existing structure
thereon;
      (4)   The location and size of the proposed structure and/or the proposed
enlargement of the existing structure; and
      (5)   Any other information that, in the judgment of the Zoning Officer,
may be necessary to enforce this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 27.07.01.03)
§ 153.198 FEES FOR ZONING CERTIFICATES.
   (A)   A non-refundable application fee shall accompany each application for
a zoning certificate. City Council, by separate ordinance, shall establish a
schedule of fees for applications and permits. Permit application fees shall be
applied to the cost of permits approved administratively or where the Board of
Zoning Appeals reverses the determination of the Zoning Officer, approves a
request for variance, authorizes a conditional or special use or approves a
change in a non-conforming use. The application fee for applications or appeals
denied by the Board shall be deposited with the City Auditor and shall not be
refunded.
   (B)   The Zoning Officer shall act upon the original application within 30
days, and shall either issue a zoning certificate or describe in writing the
reasons why a permit cannot be issued. He or she will also be responsible for
collection and deposit of all fees for credit to the general revenue fund of
the city.
   (C)   Zoning certificates shall be issued for a period of one year. A
written request for a one-year extension may be submitted prior to expiration
of the permit, and shall be reviewed by the authority approving the original
application. Zoning certificates shall be revocable by the Zoning Officer if
conditions change to the extent that the permit is no longer representative of
the proposed activity, or if requirements are not being met. Revocation of a
zoning certificate shall constitute an order to cease construction. Application
for a zoning certificate shall constitute consent for access onto the premises
under construction.
   (D)   If an application is submitted for review by a higher authority, such
submittal for review shall constitute consent for access onto the premises by
the reviewing authority.
(Prior Code, § 27.07.01.04)
§ 153.199 ZONING CERTIFICATE RECORDS.
   A record of all zoning certificates shall be kept on file in the office of
the Zoning Officer, or his or her agent, and copies shall be furnished upon
request to any person having proprietary or tenancy interest in the building or
land affected.
(Prior Code, § 27.07.01.05)
§ 153.200 REMEDIES.
   (A)   Any zoning certificate issued upon a false statement of any fact which
is material to the issuance thereof shall be void.
      (1)   Whenever the fact of such false statements shall be established to
the satisfaction of the issuing authority, the zoning certificate shall be
revoked by notice, in writing, to be delivered to the holder of the voided
certificate upon the premises concerned or, if such holders are not found
there, by posting the said notice of revocation in some conspicuous place upon
the said premises.
      (2)   Any person who shall proceed thereafter with such work or use
without having obtained a new zoning certificate according to this chapter
shall be deemed guilty of violating this chapter.
   (B)   In case any building is or is proposed to be located, erected,
constructed, reconstructed, enlarged, structurally altered, maintained or used
or any land is or is proposed to be used in violation of this chapter or any
amendment or supplement thereto, the Zoning Officer, through the City Attorney
or any adjacent or neighboring property owner who would be specially damaged by
such violation, in addition to other remedies provided by law, may institute
injunction, mandamus, abatement or any other appropriate action, actions,
proceeding or proceedings to prevent, enjoin, abate or remove such unlawful
location, erection, construction, reconstruction, enlargement, structural
alteration, maintenance or use.
(Prior Code, § 27.07.02.02)
§ 153.201 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Zoning Officer to enforce this chapter. It
shall also be the duty of all officials and employees of the city to help with
the enforcement of this chapter by reporting to the Zoning Officer facts
concerning new construction, reconstruction or land uses or seeming violations.
   (B)   An appeal from the decision of the Zoning Officer may be made to the
Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Prior Code, § 27.06.03.03)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 153.215 ORGANIZATION OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The City Planning Commission has been established and organized under
Charter §
7.05.
(Prior Code, § 27.08.01.01)
§ 153.216 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   With respect to the administration of this chapter, the Planning Commission
shall have the following responsibilities:
   (A)   To initiate proposed amendments to this chapter;
   (B)   To review amendments to this chapter proposed by the City Council,
City Manager, property owners or residents; and
   (C)   To review proposed use variances and make recommendations to the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 27.08.01.02)
§ 153.217 HEARINGS AND RULES.
   The hearings of the Planning Commission shall be public. However, it may go
into executive session for discussion according to applicable laws, but not for
vote on any case before it. The Planning Commission shall adopt, from time to
time, such rules and regulations as it may deem necessary to effectuate the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 27.08.01.03)
§ 153.218 MINUTES AND RECORDS.
   The Planning Commission shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the
vote of each member upon each question or, if absent or failing to vote,
indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other
official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the
City Auditor and shall be a public record.
(Prior Code, § 27.08.01.04)
§ 153.219 WITNESSES AND OATHS.
   The Planning Commission shall have the power to subpoena witnesses,
administer oaths and punish for contempt, and may require the production of
documents under such regulations as it may establish.
(Prior Code, § 27.08.01.05)
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
§ 153.230 ORGANIZATION OF THE BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   The City Board of Zoning Appeals has been established and organized under
Charter §
7.06.
(Prior Code, § 27.08.02.01)
§ 153.231 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error of law
in any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the Zoning Officer
in the enforcement of this chapter or any amendments thereto. The Board shall
also interpret provisions of this chapter as needed to carry out the purpose
and intent of this chapter. This includes interpretation of the zoning map when
and if questions arise as to the boundaries of zoning districts;
   (B)   To consider variances from the terms, provisions or requirements of
this chapter as will not be contrary to the public interest; so that the spirit
of the code shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured and
substantial justice done;
   (C)   To review and act upon applications for conditional uses; and
   (D)   To review and act upon changes to non-conforming uses.
(Prior Code, § 27.08.02.02)
§ 153.232 ALLEGED ERRORS OR MATTERS OF INTERPRETATIONS.
   An appeal to the Board involving an alleged error of interpretation by the
Zoning Officer, or a matter of interpretation, may be made by any person
aggrieved or by an officer of the city affected by any decision of the Zoning
Officer or the matter of the interpretation.
(Prior Code, § 27.08.02.03)
§ 153.233 VARIANCES.
   (A)   In authorizing a variance, the Board may attach conditions and require
such guarantee or bond as it may deem necessary to assure compliance with the
objectives of this chapter.
   (B)   The Board may grant a variance in the application of the provisions of
this chapter only if all of the following findings are made:
      (1)   That there are unique physical circumstances or conditions,
including irregularity, narrowness or shallowness of lot size or shape, or
exceptional topographical or other physical conditions that do not apply
generally to other properties in the neighborhood or district in which the
property is located;
      (2)   That because of such physical circumstances or conditions the
property cannot be developed in strict conformity with the provisions of this
chapter and that the authorization of a variance is therefor necessary to
enable reasonable use of the property;
      (3)   That such unique conditions have not been created by the appellant;
      (4)   That the variance, if authorized, will not alter the essential
character of the neighborhood or district in which the property is located, nor
substantially or permanently impair the appropriate use or development of
adjacent property, nor be detrimental to the public welfare; and
      (5)   That the variance, if authorized, will represent the minimum
variance that will afford relief and will represent the least modification
possible of the regulation in issue.
(Prior Code, § 27.08.02.04)
§ 153.234 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   (1)   Within zoning districts, there may be uses listed as
conditional.
      (2)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall have the power to decide
applications for conditional uses in those cases specified in this chapter.
      (3)   In considering such applications, the Board shall give due regard
to the nature and condition of all adjacent uses and structures and may impose
such requirements and conditions as the Board may deem necessary for the
protection of adjacent properties and the public interest, which includes
additional landscaping, screening, buffering or other site design
modifications.
   (B)   To approve a conditional use, the Board must find that all of the
following conditions are true:
      (1)   That the proposed use is in fact listed as conditional use in the
zoning district;
      (2)   That the proposed use will be designed, constructed, operated and
maintained to be harmonious and appropriate in appearance with the existing or
intended character of the general vicinity;
      (3)   That the proposed use will not be hazardous or disturbing to
existing or future neighboring uses;
      (4)   That the proposed use would be served adequately by essential
public services such as highways, police and fire, drainage, refuse disposal,
water and sewer or schools;
      (5)   That the proposed use will not create excessive additional
requirements at public cost for facilities or services, unless the City Council
agrees, in writing, to provide such facilities or services;
      (6)   That the proposed use will not involve activities, processes,
materials, equipment or conditions of operation that would be detrimental to
the neighborhood because of excessive traffic, noise, smoke or odors; and
      (7)   That the proposed use will not have vehicular approaches to the
property that will create interference with traffic movement.
(Prior Code, § 27.08.02.05) (Ord. 17-19, passed 4-22-2019)
§ 153.235 EXPIRATION OF APPROVAL OF CONDITIONAL USES.
   Approval of a conditional use shall be deemed to authorize only one
particular conditional use. Such approval shall expire if such use has not been
instituted in one year or if discontinued for more than one year.
(Prior Code, § 27.08.02.06)
§ 153.236 CHANGE TO NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (A)   To approve a substitution of a new non-conforming use for an existing
non-conforming use, the Board must find that the proposed non-conforming use is
substantially similar to the existing non-conforming use in terms of impact on
the neighborhood.
   (B)   The Board may impose additional requirements upon the new non-
conforming use as may be considered reasonable to minimize impacts upon
surrounding property.
   (C)   An expansion of a non-conforming use may only be approved if it is
found that such expansion will not be detrimental to the neighborhood.
(Prior Code, § 27.08.02.07)
§ 153.237 EXPIRATION OF APPROVAL OF CHANGES TO NON-CONFORMING USES.
   Approval of a change to non-conforming uses shall be deemed to authorize
only one particular use. Such approval shall expire if such use has not been
instituted in one year or if discontinued for more than one year.
(Prior Code, § 27.08.02.08)
§ 153.238 HEARINGS AND RULES.
   The hearings of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be public. However, the
Board may go into executive session for discussion according to applicable
laws, but not for vote on any case before it.
(Prior Code, § 27.08.02.09)
§ 153.239 MINUTES AND RECORDS.
   The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each
member upon each question or, if absent or failing to vote, indicating such
fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other official actions;
all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the City Auditor and
shall be a public record.
(Prior Code, § 27.08.02.10)
§ 153.240 WITNESSES AND OATHS.
   The Board shall have the power to subpoena witnesses, administer oaths and
punish for contempt, and may require the production of documents as it may deem
necessary.
(Prior Code, § 27.08.02.11)
§ 153.241 DEPARTMENT ASSISTANCE.
   The Board may call upon the various officials and employees of the city for
assistance in the performance of its duties and it shall be the duty of such
departments to render such assistance to the Board as may reasonably be
required.
(Prior Code, § 27.08.02.12)
§ 153.242 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   An application, in a case in which the Board has original jurisdiction
under the provisions of this chapter, may be submitted to the Zoning Officer
who shall transmit the application to the Board. Applications concerning an
alleged error in determination of the Zoning Officer or appeal from a refused
application must be submitted within 30 days of said determination.
   (B)   Applications for conditional or special or change to non-conforming
use shall be properly advertised for hearing and transmitted to the Board for
consideration at its next regular meeting.
   (C)   Application fees for hearings under the original jurisdiction of the
Board shall be determined by City Council and established by separate
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 27.08.02.13)
§ 153.243 NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   The Board shall fix a reasonable time for a hearing of a matter to
come before it, and shall give at least ten days public notice thereof in a
newspaper of general circulation in the municipality and at least ten days
notice to parties having proprietary interest in land within 200 feet of any
property in question.
   (A)   At the hearing, the applicant party must appear in person or by a
representative. Any other interested party may appear in person or by a
representative. The hearings of the Board shall be public.
(Prior Code, § 27.08.02.14)
§ 153.244 DECISIONS OF THE BOARD.
   (A)   The Board shall decide all applications and appeals within 30 days
after the final hearing thereon, a copy of the Board’s decision shall be
transmitted to the Zoning Officer and to the applicant. Such decision shall
incorporate the terms and conditions of the same in the permit as authorized by
the Board.
   (B)   In accordance with R.C. §§ 2505.03 and 2506.01, any person or persons,
jointly or severally aggrieved by any final order, adjudication or decision of
the Board, or any resident, or any officer, department or appointed body of the
municipality, may request review by the County Court of Common Pleas and
present a petition, duly verified, setting forth that such decision is illegal,
in whole or in part, and specifying the grounds of the illegality. Such
petition shall be presented to the Court within 30 days after the decision of
the Board.
(Prior Code, § 27.08.02.15)
AMENDMENTS AND USE VARIANCES
§ 153.255 GENERAL.
   The City Council may amend or change the number, shape, area or regulations
of or within any district or grant a variance for a use not otherwise
principally or conditionally permitted in a zoning district, but no such
amendment, change or use variance shall become effective unless the ordinance
proposing it is first submitted to the Planning Commission for review and
suggestions and the Planning Commission is allowed a reasonable time, not less
than 30 days, for consideration and report.
(Prior Code, § 27.09.01) (Ord. 29-16, passed - -)
§ 153.256 USE VARIANCES.
   (A)   No appeal for a use variance for a use which is not permitted in a
specific district shall not be recommended by the Planning Commission or
granted by City Council unless the Planning Commission and City Council
determine, by clear and convincing evidence, that an unnecessary hardship
exists or will result from the literal enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   The following standards shall be considered and weighed by the
Planning Commission and City Council in determining whether the granting of a
use variance is warranted to afford relief of an unnecessary hardship:
      (1)   Whether principally or conditionally permitted uses in the district
may be reasonably established on the property and whether the principally or
conditionally permitted uses are economically viable on the property in
question without the variance;
      (2)   Whether the use variance is the minimum variance necessary to
afford relief to the property owner, occupant, tenant or lease holder;
      (3)   Whether the essential character of the neighborhood will be
substantially altered or adjoining properties will suffer interference with
their proper future development rights as a result of the use variance;
      (4)   Whether the use variance requested arises from an exceptional
condition or circumstance which is unique to the subject site, including, but
not limited to, historical, architectural or cultural considerations and which
may not be generally shared by other properties in the same zoning district or
general vicinity;
      (5)   Whether any hardship condition was created by actions of the owner
or applicant;
      (6)   Whether the spirit and intent of this chapter will be observed and
substantial justice done by granting the use variance;
      (7)   Whether the use requested is similar in character to the permitted
uses in the subject district;
      (8)   Whether the subject property is adequate to meet the needs and
requirements of the proposed use; and
      (9)   Whether the historical, architectural or cultural significance of
the building, structure or premises where the use variance is proposed will be
preserved, enhanced or damaged.
(Prior Code, § 27.09.02) (Ord. 29-16, passed - -)
§ 153.257 ACTION BY PLANNING COMMISSION.
   In recommending approval of a use variance, the Planning Commission may
prescribe appropriate conditions, stipulations, requirements and safeguards in
conformity with this chapter. Violations of such conditions, stipulations,
requirements and safeguards, when made a part of the terms under which the
variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this chapter. In denying a
use variance request, the Planning Commission shall state, in writing, which of
the standards for consideration was not met and such determination shall be
transmitted to the City Council as part of the Planning Commission’s
recommendation.
(Prior Code, § 27.09.03) (Ord. 29-16, passed - -)
§ 153.258 ACTION BY CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council shall consider the recommendation of the Planning
Commission along with the variance application, including any and all
conditions, stipulations, requirements and safeguards recommended by the
Planning Commission. City Council may include and attach the conditions,
stipulations, requirements and safeguards recommended by the Planning
Commission, may modify the recommendations of the Planning Commission and/or
may prescribe such additional conditions, stipulations, requirements and
safeguards as it may deem necessary and appropriate as terms and conditions
under which the use variance is granted. Violations of such conditions,
stipulations, requirements and safeguards, when made a part of the terms under
which the use variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 27.09.04) (Ord. 29-16, passed - -)
§ 153.259 APPEALS.
   In accordance with R.C. §§ 2505.03 and 2506.01, any person or persons,
jointly or severally aggrieved by any final order, adjudication or decision of
the Planning Commission or the City Council, or any resident, or any officer,
department or appointed body of the municipality, may request review by the
County Court of Common Pleas and present a petition, duly verified, setting
forth that such decision is illegal, in whole or in part, and specifying the
grounds of the illegality. Such petition shall be presented to the Court within
30 days after the decision of the Planning Commission or the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 27.09.05) (Ord. 29-16, passed - -)
§ 153.260 HEARINGS AND NOTIFICATIONS.
   Before this chapter or any measure, regulation, amendment or use variance
thereto are passed, the City Council shall hold a public hearing thereon, and
shall give at least 30 days’ notice of the time and place thereof in a
newspaper of general circulation in the city. If the ordinance, measure or
regulation intends to re-zone or redistrict ten or less parcels of land, as
listed on the tax duplicate, written notice of the hearing shall be mailed by
the City Council Clerk, by first class mail, at least 30 days before the date
of the public hearing to the owners of property having proprietary interest in
land within 200 feet of any property in question and to the addresses of such
owners appearing on the County Auditor’s current tax list or the City
Treasurer’s mailing list, and to such other list or lists that may be specified
by the City Council. The future of delivery of such notice shall not invalidate
any such ordinance, measure, regulation or use variance. During such 30 days
the text or copy of the text of such ordinance, measure, regulation or use
variance, together with the maps or plans or copies thereof forming part of or
referred to in such ordinance, measure, regulation or use variance and be on
file, for public examination, in the office of the City Council Clerk, office
of the City Manager or in such other location as is designated by the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 27.09.06.01) (Ord. 29-16, passed - -)
§ 153.261 APPLICATION FEES.
   At the time an application for a change of any measure, regulation,
amendment or use variance thereto, either change to text, zoning district or
use regulation is filed, there shall be deposited with the municipality a fee
determined by City Council and established by separate ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 27.09.06.02) (Ord. 29-16, passed - -)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any individual, corporation or other responsible
entity to locate, erect, construct, reconstruct, enlarge, structurally alter,
maintain or use any building or land in violation of any regulation or any
provisions of this chapter or any amendment. Whoever violates this chapter
shall be deemed guilty of a minor misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not more than permitted by law for each day during which such
illegal location, erection, construction, reconstruction, enlargement,
structural alteration, maintenance or use continues may be deemed a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 27.07.02.01)
CHAPTER 154: SIDEWALK CAFÉS
Section
   
154.01   Purpose
   
154.02   Definitions
   
154.03   Permit procedures
   
154.04   Standards
   
154.05   Operating restrictions
   
154.06   Denial, revocation and suspension; causes enumerated
   
154.07   Denial, revocation and suspension; hearing demand, review, City
Council powers
   
154.08   Revocation of suspension; notice required; service
   
154.09   Renewal considered as original application
   
154.10   Transferral
   
154.11   Annual fee
 
   
154.99   Penalty
§ 154.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The sidewalk café and outdoor seating regulations, as established in
this chapter, are designed to allow sidewalk cafés or outdoor seating on public
property in locations where they are determined to be appropriate by the City
Manager, or his or her designee, and to promote and protect the public health,
safety and general welfare of the community.
   (B)   These general goals include, among others, the following specific
purposes:
      (1)   To attract residents and nonresidents to downtown;
      (2)   To provide an additional way for restaurants or food establishments
to expand their operations;
      (3)   To promote sidewalk cafés and outdoor seating as useful and
properly planned visual amenities;
      (4)   To provide adequate space for pedestrians on the sidewalk adjacent
to sidewalk cafés or outdoor seating and to ensure access to adjacent
commercial and retail uses;
      (5)   To promote the most desirable use of land and buildings and thereby
protect the city’s tax revenues; and
      (6)   To provide for penalties for violations of this chapter.
(Ord. 16-19, passed 4-22-2019)
§ 154.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OUTDOOR SEATING. An outdoor area operated by an existing restaurant or other
food establishment which sells food or beverages for immediate consumption,
located on a public sidewalk, or other public property, which is public through
dedication or easement or public right-of-way that provides seating outside of
an establishment for patrons and other persons, and contains readily removable
tables, chairs, railings or planters. This area does not provide waiter or
waitress service or offer alcoholic beverages. It is unenclosed by fixed walls
and open to the air.
   SIDEWALK CAFÉ. An outdoor dining area operated by an existing restaurant or
other food establishment, which sells food, beverages or alcoholic beverages
for immediate consumption, located on a public sidewalk, or other public
property, which is public through dedication or easement or public right-of-way
that provides waiter, waitress service or counter service and contains readily
removable tables, chairs, railings or planters. It is otherwise unenclosed by
fixed walls and open to the air, except that it may have table umbrellas or
other non-permanent cover.
   SIDEWALK CAFÉ PERMIT or OUTDOOR SEATING PERMIT. A permit issued by the City
Manager, based upon approval by the City Manager, which conforms to the
procedures and regulations of this chapter, for sidewalk café or outdoor
seating operations.
(Ord. 16-19, passed 4-22-2019)
§ 154.03 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The City Manager is authorized to issue a permit to operate a sidewalk
café or provide outdoor seating on public property provided that the applicant
has complied with the standards set forth in this section.
   (B)   Sidewalk café or outdoor seating permit applications for
establishments operating on public sidewalks or public property shall be
reviewed by city staff and approved by the City Manager. The City Manager
reserves the right to forward a permit application to the City Council for its
review and consideration. Establishments serving alcohol require approval by
the State Liquor Control Commission (O.L.C.C.). No permit shall be issued until
such license or permit, as required by the O.LC.C, has been approved and the
local approval resolution has been approved by the City Council.
   (C)   (1)   All permits shall be issued on a calendar year basis and shall
expire on December 31. Unless another timeframe is specified in the permit, or
by the requirements of this chapter, the permit shall allow the operation of a
sidewalk café or outdoor seating from March 15 up to and including November 7
of the calendar year for which the permit is issued. All permits shall be
reapplied for annually (§ 74-179).
      (2)   To allow establishments to take advantage of good weather,
operation of a sidewalk café or outdoor seating is permitted prior to March 15
and/or after November 7 on a day-by-day basis, subject to the following
restrictions.
         (a)   The establishment has been issued a permit for the current
calendar year.
         (b)   A certificate insurance, meeting the insurance requirements in
this section, has been filed with the City Manager.
         (c)   The operation of the sidewalk café or outdoor seating shall not
interfere with the set up or the operation of any special event.
         (d)   All tables, chairs, table umbrellas, railings, posts, planters
and other equipment associated with the operation of a sidewalk café or outdoor
seating shall be removed and stored inside of the establishment each night.
         (e)   During periods of snow accumulation, the placement of tables,
chairs, table umbrellas, railings, posts, planters and other equipment
associated with the operation of a sidewalk café or outdoor seating shall be
placed in a manner that allows no less than 42 inches of cleared sidewalk for
pedestrian use.
   (D)   Any person or establishment granted a permit by the City Manager to
operate a sidewalk café or provide outdoor seating on public sidewalks or
public property shall pay to the City Treasurer a fee in the amount as
established by resolution of the City Council. The City Manager shall not issue
a permit unless the fees required by this section are paid.
   (E)   Existing establishment signage shall be in compliance with the city
sign ordinance before a permit will be granted.
   (F)   (1)   Each permit application for a sidewalk café or outdoor seating
shall be accompanied by a policy or certificate of insurance, in an amount
acceptable to the city, including workers’ compensation, naming the city as an
additional insured. Establishments serving alcohol shall also provide a liquor
liability policy or certificate of insurance naming the city as an additional
insured. A company authorized to do business in the state shall issue such
insurance. Required insurance amounts shall be set, from time to time, by
resolution of the City Council. The policy or certificate shall contain a
clause requiring the insuring company to give ten days written notice to the
city manager prior to canceling the policy.
      (2)   The insurance certificate required by this chapter shall be in
effect for any period during which the sidewalk café or outdoor seating is in
operation. Failure to provide a current insurance certificate shall be cause
for denial, suspension or revocation of the sidewalk café or outdoor seating
permit. No establishment shall operate a sidewalk café or provide outdoor
seating without filing proof of proper insurance. Denied, suspended or revoked
permits may be re-instated upon submittal of proof of proper insurance.
   (G)   Site development and application approval.
      (1)   No outdoor service of food and/or beverages in the farm of a
sidewalk café or outdoor seating shall be established on public property,
except in conformance with a site development plan reviewed by city staff and
approved by the City Manager as required by this chapter.
      (2)   (a)   A permit application available from the City Manager’s office
for site development plan approval shall be submitted to the City Manager.
         (b)   The application shall include, but shall not be limited to, the
following:
            1.   Name of the applicant and business;
            2.   Address of the business;
            3.   Address of the applicant;
            4.   Telephone number of the applicant and business;
            5.   Name of the property owner, if other than applicant;
            6.   Address of the property owner, if other than applicant;
            7.   Telephone number of the property owner, if other than
applicant;
            8.   Name of planner, engineer, architect or age, if applicable;
            9.   Proposed dates of occupancy;
            10.   Proposed hours of occupancy;
            11.   Proposed number of tables, chairs, railings, posts, table
umbrellas or other items;
            12.   Proposed color, design, materials and workpersonship of
tables, chairs, railings, posts, table umbrellas or other items;
            13.   Proposed area of occupancy including square feet and
dimensions;
            14.   Whether alcohol will be served;
            15.   Copy of certificate of insurance;
            16.   Whether permit application is a new application or renewal;
if renewal, applicant shall describe any changes from the previous application;
and
            17. Written authorization from the owner of the property shall be
required where the applicant is not the owner of the affected property
      (3)   The site development plan and the accompanying application shall
show the following:
         (a)   The applicant’s entire property and adjacent properties on a
location map with streets for a distance of at least 25 feet at a scale showing
detail sufficient for proper review. The site plan shall be submitted on a
sheet no smaller than eight and one-half inches by 11 inches and no larger than
11 inches by 17 inches. Site plans smaller or larger than the sizes prescribed
by this section shall not be accepted; and
         (b)   A detailed plan showing the design, relevant details and
location of all temporary structures, such as, but not limited to, planters,
landscaping, railings, tables, chairs, table umbrellas, electrical outlets or
appliances, hydrants, all ingress and egress, existing lighting and other
equipment shall accompany the site development plan and permit application.
      (4)   The City Manager, or his or her designee, shall distribute copies
of the site development plan and permit application to the City Manager, Chief
of Police, Fire Chief, Code Enforcement Officer, Downtown Development Director
and Director of Public Works for review and comments in relation to compliance
with this chapter and all other city ordinances.
   (H)   Conditions specific to the operation of a business may be incorporated
into the permit as required by city staff or the City Manager.
   (I)   City staff, using historic district standards, shall review permit
applications for establishments within the historic district. Appeals shall be
made to the Historic District Commission.
   (J)   Based upon review comments from city staff, the City Manager may
approve, approve with conditions, refer the application back to the applicant
for modification, deny the application or refer the application to the City
Council. If approved, the City Manager shall authorize the City Manager to
issue a sidewalk café or outdoor seating permit.
   (K)   If the City Manager, or his or her designee, denies the application
for a sidewalk café or outdoor seating permit, the reason for this
determination will be stated in a letter to the applicant. The applicant may
appeal the decision in accordance with § 74-177.
   (L)   In addition to any fees required by this chapter, establishments
applying for any license or permit issued by the O.L.C.C. shall be required to
pay a non-refundable liquor licensing permit fee to the city in an amount as
established by resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 16-19, passed 4-22-2019)
§ 154.04 STANDARDS.
   (A)   There shall be a minimum of 42 inches, exclusive of the area occupied
by the sidewalk café or outdoor seating, designed to allow adequate pedestrian
movement. Cafés or outdoor seating shall only be permitted where it is
determined that the use will not create a hazard, a sight distance obstruction
for motor vehicle operators, nor unduly impede pedestrian traffic. The City
Manager, or his or her designee, shall determine when a hazardous condition
exists in the public right-of-way.
   (B)   Sidewalk cafés or outdoor seating may only be located adjacent to the
establishment with which they are associated. Sidewalk cafés or outdoor seating
areas must remain clear of litter, food scraps and soiled dishes at all times.
   (C)   Employees of the establishment shall continuously supervise outdoor
dining areas serving alcoholic beverages.
   (D)   Setting up a barrier such as planters or a railing to physically
separate patrons from pedestrian traffic shall delineate the perimeter of a
sidewalk café serving alcoholic beverages. All barriers used for sidewalk cafés
serving liquor shall also conform O.L.C.C. regulations.
   (E)   Furnishings for a sidewalk café or outdoor seating shall consist
solely of readily removable railings, posts, tables, chairs, planters and table
umbrellas. Furnishings may only be attached or secured in a manner approved by
the City Manager or designee. Such anchoring devices, when removed, shall not
create a hazard for pedestrian traffic. Objects, which are part of the sidewalk
café or outdoor seating, may be attached or secured to any building or
structure on which the sidewalk café or outdoor seating abuts in a manner
approved by the City Manager, or his or her designee.
   (F)   No structure or enclosure to accommodate the storage of accumulated
garbage, i.e., shed, may be erected or placed adjacent to or near the sidewalk
café or outdoor seating located on public property. Each establishment shall be
responsible for providing appropriate containers for disposing of garbage or
waste and employees shall not use city trash containers for disposing of
garbage or waste.
   (G)   A sidewalk café or outdoor seating shall not interfere with any public
service facility, such as a telephone, mailbox or bench located on a sidewalk
or public property.
   (H)   Operation of a sidewalk café or outdoor seating shall not adversely
impact adjacent or nearby residential, religious, educational or commercial
properties and shall be in accordance with all applicable codes and
regulations.
   (I)   Tables, chairs, table umbrellas, railings, planters and any other
objects provided with the sidewalk café or outdoor seating shall be of quality
design, materials and workpersonship both to ensure the safety and convenience
of users and to enhance the visual and aesthetic quality of the area. Such
equipment shall be routinely cleaned, painted or replaced and may be inspected
by the City Manager or designee.
(Ord. 16-19, passed 4-22-2019) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.05 OPERATING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   All alcoholic beverages to be served at a sidewalk café shall be
prepared within the existing restaurant, and alcoholic beverages shall only be
served to patrons seated at tables. The consumption of alcoholic beverages at a
sidewalk café within the confines of the sidewalk café area shall not be
construed as a violation of any ordinance controlling open containers in a
public area. The operator of the sidewalk café shall take all necessary action
to procure the appropriate license or permit from the O.L.C.C. to serve
alcoholic beverages in the sidewalk café and shall comply with all other laws
and regulations concerning the serving of alcoholic beverages in the state.
   (B)   All food to be served at a sidewalk café or outdoor seating shall be
prepared within the existing establishment unless approved by the City Council
as part of a special event application request.
   (C)   The restaurant shall not serve food or beverages to a patron at a
sidewalk café unless that patron is seated at a table.
   (D)   The sidewalk café or outdoor seating permit issued in accordance with
this chapter shall be prominently displayed within the existing establishment
along with other required permits and licenses.
   (E)   During the off-season, chairs, railings, posts, planters, table
umbrellas and other items shall be removed and shall not be stored outside. It
shall be the responsibility of the establishment to secure adequate storage of
these items.
   (F)   (1)   The maintenance of a sidewalk café or outdoor seating area shall
be the responsibility of the establishment, including, but not limited to,
surface treatment and cleaning, litter control, sweeping and snow and ice
removal.
      (2)   The sidewalk and public property shall be kept neat and clean at
all times and free from any substance that may cause damage to the sidewalk or
public property or cause pedestrian injury.
   (G)   Advertising on table umbrellas or railings is prohibited.
   (H)   An increase in lighting is prohibited, unless otherwise required
through the review process.
(Ord. 16-19, passed 4-22-2019) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.06 DENIAL, REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION; CAUSES ENUMERATED.
   The issuance of permits applied for under this chapter or any other
ordinance of the city may be denied by the City Manager, and permits issued may
be revoked or suspended by the City Manager at any time, for any of the
following causes:
   (A)   Fraud, misrepresentation or any false statement made in the permit
application;
   (B)   Fraud, misrepresentation or any false statement made in the operation
of the sidewalk café or outdoor seating;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter or any other ordinance of the city;
   (D)   Any violation received during th previous permit period;
   (E)   Conducting a business in an unlawful manner or in such a manner as to
constitute a breach of peace or to constitute a menace to the health, morals,
safety or welfare of the public; and
   (F)   Failure or inability of an applicant to meet and satisfy the
requirements and provisions of this chapter and every other ordinance of the
city.
(Ord. 16-19, passed 4-22-2019)
§ 154.07 DENIAL, REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION; HEARING DEMAND, REVIEW, CITY
COUNCIL POWERS.
   (A)   Any person whose permit is revoked or suspended, or any person whose
application for a permit is denied, shall have the right to a hearing before
the City Council, provided a written request therefor is filed with the City
Manager within ten days following the delivery or mailing of the notice of
revocation or suspension, or within ten days following the denial of the permit
application.
   (B)   No person shall operate any sidewalk café or outdoor seating during
any time when the permit therefor has been suspended, revoked or canceled.
(Ord. 16-19, passed 4-22-2019)
§ 154.08 REVOCATION OF SUSPENSION; NOTICE REQUIRED; SERVICE.
   (A)   Written notice of suspension or revocation, stating the causes
therefor, shall be delivered to the permittee personally or mailed to the
address as shown in the permit application.
   (B)   Upon revocation license, all furnishings and fixtures shall be removed
from public property within 24 hours.
(Ord. 16-19, passed 4-22-2019)
§ 154.09 RENEWAL CONSIDERED AS ORIGINAL APPLICATION.
   Units otherwise provided in this chapter, an application for renewal of a
sidewalk café or outdoor seating permit shall be considered in the same manner
as an original application.
(Ord. 2-20-01, passed 3-19-2001; Ord. 16-19, passed 4-22-2019)
§ 154.10 TRANSFERRAL.
   No permit issued under the provisions of this chapter or any other ordinance
of the city shall be transferrable.
(Ord. 16-19, passed 4-22-2019)
§ 154.11 ANNUAL FEE.
   (A)   Upon the proper application, the City Manager, or any employee
designated by the City Manager, shall collect the annual fee for the year of
application, due each subsequent year by January 1, and then issue a sidewalk
café and outdoor seating permit for a period of one year.
   (B)   No person, agent, company or corporation shall operate a sidewalk café
with outdoor seating without a valid permit. The permit fee shall be $25 per
year.
(Ord. 73-19, passed 11-25-2019)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.30 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who operates a sidewalk café or outdoor seating on
public sidewalks or public property, without a permit, or who shall violate any
of the provisions of this chapter shall be responsible for a municipal civil
infraction, punishable by a civil fine of not more than $500 and the costs of
prosecution.
      (2)   The City Council may establish the amount of a civil fine for a
municipal civil infraction that may be paid at the City Violations Bureau for
Violations of this chapter, except that all violations alleging operating
without a permit and other violations in excess of three in any calendar year
may be handled by the district court.
      (3)   The city may suspend or revoke any permit issued or deny the
issuance of a permit, as provided in § 74-176, regardless of whether the
operator has been cited, paid a civil fine or been found responsible for a
violation of this chapter, pursuant to this section.
(Ord. 16-19, passed 4-22-2019)
CHAPTER 155: RENTAL PROPERTY
Section
   
155.01   Purpose
   
155.02   Definitions
   
155.03   Certificate of registration required
   
155.04   Owner or agent to operate rental dwelling units; service of notice or
process
   
155.05   Exempt rental units
   
155.06   Registration forms
   
155.07   Registration term and removal
   
155.08   Fees
   
155.09   Late fee
   
155.10   Periodic inspections
   
155.11   Responsibility of designated agent
   
155.12   Transfer of ownership
   
155.13   Right of entry
   
155.14   Vacating a rental unit
   
155.15   Disclaimer of liability
   
155.16   Adoption of rental code
 
   
155.99   Penalty
§ 155.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to protect the public health, safety and
welfare of the citizens of the city; to provide for the notification of owners
of residential, commercial or industrial rental property regarding §§
36.15 through
36.31; to protect an owner’s investment in and value of real property; to
identify and provide contact information for property owners and their agents;
and to provide for the timely notification to owners and their agents of
violation of measures, rules, regulations, ordinances and codes for the
exterior premises condition of property and other minimum standards related to
the occupancy of rental dwelling units, commercial and industrial business
spaces, and their premises.
(Prior Code, § 11.08.01)
§ 155.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DESIGNATED AGENT. A business entity located in or an individual person 18
years or older residing in the county or Hocking County with an address other
than a post office box and named by an owner as a secondary point of contact
regarding the use or condition of land and the occupancy and physical condition
of structures on a platted lot or parcel of land.
   LEASE. The written or oral agreement that sets forth any and all conditions
concerning the use and occupancy of rental units.
   NOTICE OF VIOLATION. A notice issued by the City Manager, his or her
designee or the Code Enforcement Officer to the owner of real property, or to
his or her designated agent, that there has been a violation of a provision of
this chapter or any other applicable section of the City Code, ordinance, rule
or regulation concerning the occupancy or condition of a premises that is
leased or for lease, vacant or occupied.
   OWNER. Any person who, alone or jointly or severally with others, shall have
the legal or equitable title to a property, and shall include executors,
administrators, trustees or guardians of the estate of the OWNER, and any
purchaser or assignee under a certificate of sale pursuant to a mortgage
foreclosure. The term OWNER shall also include partnerships and other
unincorporated associations. Any individual owner, regardless of whether he or
she shares ownership responsibility with any other person, any general partner
of a partnership and any officer of a corporation or unincorporated
association, shall have direct and personal responsibility and liability for
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   PREMISES. A real property parcel of land and the structures on that parcel
containing at least one residential dwelling unit or one commercial or
industrial business space, including lots in manufactured home parks or platted
lots or parcels outside a manufactured home park where a mobile home,
manufactured home or industrialized unit may be located.
   RENTAL DWELLING UNIT. Any structure or part thereof used by a person or
persons other than the owner for residential purposes. RENTAL DWELLING UNITS
may also be known as a rental dwelling, rental unit, dwelling unit or
housekeeping unit and may be a mobile home, manufactured home or industrialized
unit.
(Prior Code, § 11.08.02)
§ 155.03 CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   No person shall lease, rent or cause to be occupied a residential rental
unit until first obtaining a certificate of registration issued by the City
Manager, or his or her designee, in the name of the owner and designated agent
for that specific residential dwelling unit. The certificate shall be retained
by the owner or designated agent and a copy provided to any tenant or
prospective tenant prior to occupancy. In the case of a written lease, a copy
of the certificate of registration shall be incorporated in or attached to the
lease agreement.
(Prior Code, § 11.08.03) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.04 OWNER OR AGENT TO OPERATE RENTAL DWELLING UNITS; SERVICE OF NOTICE OR
PROCESS.
   Every owner of a rental unit shall designate an agent who, in addition to
the owner, shall be responsible for operation of the unit and who may accept
service of process and official notices on behalf of the owner. An official
notice or service of process issued to a designated agent shall be deemed as
served or delivered upon the owner of record. Each owner, or designated agent,
shall maintain a list of the name and number of tenants in each rental unit and
advise the tenants of all known applicable city regulations regarding occupancy
and premises conditions. Failure to maintain a property or to maintain any
requirements regarding registration shall be grounds for revocation of an
existing certificate or denial of issuance of a renewal certificate of
registration.
(Prior Code, § 11.08.04) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.05 EXEMPT RENTAL UNITS.
   Certain types of residences shall be exempt from the requirements of this
chapter, including, but not limited to:
   (A)   Single-family, owner-occupied dwellings and dwelling units;
   (B)   Hotels, motels, recreational vehicle parks and camps without
continuous occupancy by the same tenant for more than 30 days;
   (C)   Dormitories owned and operated by a college or university;
   (D)   Adult family homes, adult group homes, community residential
facilities, family homes, family foster homes, foster family homes, foster
homes, group homes, supported living homes and type A or type B homes operated
under R.C. Title 51;
   (E)   Nursing homes and similar residential care facilities; and
   (F)   Prisons, jails, work facilities or other places of incarceration or
correction, including, but not limited to, halfway houses, residential
facilities under community control sanctions, post-release control sanctions or
parole.
(Prior Code, § 11.08.05)
§ 155.06 REGISTRATION FORMS.
   (A)   Application for registration of residential rental dwelling units
shall be on forms provided by the City Manager, or his or her designee, and
shall include all information required by the City Manager but, at a minimum,
the following:
      (1)   Name, address, telephone and e-mail address, if applicable, of an
individual owner, sole proprietor or a corporate officer or business
representative of a corporation, trust or other entity capable of holding
title;
      (2)   Name, address, telephone number and email address, if applicable,
of a company or designated agent who must be located in or be a resident of the
county or Hocking County;
      (3)   Parcel identification number and date of building construction
obtained from the County Auditor’s office;
      (4)   Address of each rental dwelling unit;
      (5)   Number of detached structures on the lot or parcel and number of
units per structure; and
      (6)   Number of parking spaces on the lot or parcel used for residential
dwelling purposes.
   (B)   No post office boxes shall be accepted as a legal address for purposes
of this chapter.
   (C)   Registrations shall be retained at the office of the City Manager as a
public record and made available to any other city department or public entity
upon request.
   (D)   Every person required to register a residential rental dwelling unit
shall complete a new application upon amendment or change of any required
information.
   (E)   Upon sale or transfer of a residential premises, the previous owner
shall notify the City Manager, or his or her designee, of the name and contact
information of the new owner so that they may complete a new application for
certificate of registration. If a new owner is not made aware of this
requirement upon sale and transfer of the property, it shall be the
responsibility of a new owner once notified to complete and submit a new rental
registration form within five days of notice.
   (F)   Upon construction of new residential rental dwelling units or
conversion of existing building space not previously used for residential
purposes and, in addition to obtaining a zoning certificate prior to
construction or conversion required by
Chapter 153, an owner shall complete and submit a rental registration form for
each building or portion thereof used for residential rental purposes.
(Prior Code, § 11.08.06) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.07 REGISTRATION TERM AND REMOVAL.
   Registration shall be made within 90 days of the enactment of this chapter.
The term of the certificate of registration shall be valid so long as all of
the original information and all fees established by separate ordinance are
current. Sale or transfer of property shall cause the certificate to expire and
be no longer valid. Any new owner shall make new application for a certificate
of registration for each residential dwelling unit prior to closing so as to
maintain a continuous record of ownership in case of damage, vandalism,
premises condition or other requirement necessitating public notification to
the owner, but in no case more than five days after sale or transfer.
(Prior Code, § 11.08.07)
§ 155.08 FEES.
   (A)   A schedule of fees for an original, single unit residential dwelling
or certificate covering two or more units in a single building, change or
amendment of application information, certificate of renewal or new ownership
shall be established by separate ordinance.
   (B)   The City Council hereby establishes a fee of $30 for each dwelling
unit subject to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11.08.08) (Ord. 24-16, passed 5-23-2016; Ord. 15-19, passed 4-
22-2019)
§ 155.09 LATE FEE.
   A charge of $100 is added to all rental registration fees not paid by 30
days after the due date.
(Ord. 84-19, passed 12-16-2019)
§ 155.10 PERIODIC INSPECTIONS.
   The City Manager, his or her designee or the Code Enforcement Officer may
conduct periodic exterior inspections of rental units registered under this
chapter in order to enforce existing or future codes and ordinances related to
clean, safe and sanitary premises conditions. Inspection may be from the public
right-of-way or conducted on premises with the presentation of proper
credentials.
(Prior Code, § 11.08.09)
§ 155.11 RESPONSIBILITY OF DESIGNATED AGENT.
   Designation of an agent by an owner shall cause the agent to be an
additional responsible party for purposes of this chapter and other chapters
that may apply regarding the operating of a premises. All official notices of
the city may be issued to the designated agent as well as the owner and in such
case as a notice is served upon a designated agent such notice issued shall be
deemed as having been served upon the owner of record.
(Prior Code, § 11.08.10)
§ 155.12 TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any residential rental dwelling unit
having received a notice of violation to transfer, convey, lease enter into
contract or sell his or her ownership or interest in any way to another, unless
such owner shall have first furnished to the grantee, lessee, transferee or
vendee a true copy of such notice of violation and a verified statement
received by the City Manager, his or her designee or the Code Enforcement
Officer acknowledging the receipt of same.
(Prior Code, § 11.08.11) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.13 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Absent emergency circumstances, whenever necessary to make inspection to
enforce the provisions of §
95.01, the City Manager, his or her designee or the Code Enforcement Officer
may enter such building or premises at any and all reasonable times to inspect
the same, provided such entry is pursuant to the law, and further provided if
such building or premises is occupied, the investigating agent provides proper
credentials at request of entry. If entry is denied, the investigating agent
has authority to seek lawful entry pursuant to an administrative search warrant
or other lawful means. A certificate of registration shall not be construed as
consenting to a search or entry into a rental unit except as provided by this
section and other applicable law.
(Prior Code, § 11.08.12)
§ 155.14 VACATING A RENTAL UNIT.
   In the event that a rental unit is not occupied for more than six months, it
shall be considered vacant and shall not be reoccupied unless a valid
certificate of registration be issued. It shall be the responsibility of the
owner to secure the unit against trespass or vandalism by any means, including,
but not limited to, the boarding of windows and doors and securing doors with
locks. If the unit or units constitute the entire area of a building, then the
building shall be subject to the provisions of Chapter 156.
(Prior Code, § 11.08.13) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.15 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   A certificate of registration is not a warranty or guarantee that there are
no defects in a rental dwelling unit and the city shall not be held liable to
any person for the condition of the property.
(Prior Code, § 11.08.14)
§ 155.16 ADOPTION OF RENTAL CODE.
   (A)   The City Council hereby adopts City Code Title 37, Rental Code,
attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
   (B)   City Code § 37.01, Rental Permit required is hereby amended to read
“...Any person, property owner, rental company, or agent, which is offering
property for human habitation in the city shall pay a registration fee and
apply for a rental permit. Upon proper application, the City Manager, or any
employee designated by the City Manager, shall collect the annual registration
fee for the year of application, due each subsequent year by January 1, and
then issue a rental permit for a period of one year. No person, agent, company
or corporation shall rent property without a valid permit”.
(Ord. 39-16, passed 9-26-2016; Ord. 10-17, passed 3-13-2017)
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.30 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any owner, or designated agent, who violates the provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor with each rental dwelling unit
and day of violation constituting a separate offense. A second and subsequent
offense within a calendar year shall constitute a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(Prior Code, § 11.08.99)
CHAPTER 156: VACANT PROPERTY
Section
   
156.01   Application of chapter
   
156.02   Definitions
   
156.03   Registration required
   
156.04   Minimum requirements
   
156.05   Vacant building plan
   
156.06   Exemptions
   
156.07   Fees
   
156.08   Ownership of unregistered buildings
   
156.09   Interpretation of chapter
   
156.10   Appeals
 
   
156.99   Penalty
§ 156.01 APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   This chapter shall be applicable to all residential, commercial and
industrial buildings and premises located within the city.
(Prior Code, § 9.17.01)
§ 156.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DESIGNATED AGENT. A business entity located in or an individual person 18
years or older residing in the county or Hocking County with an address other
than a post office box and named by an owner as a secondary point of contact
regarding the use or condition of land and the occupancy and physical condition
of structures on a platted lot or parcel of land.
   OWNER. Any person who, alone or jointly or severally with others, shall have
the legal or equitable title to a property, and shall include executors,
administrators, trustees or guardians of the estate of the owner, and any
purchaser or assignee under a certificate of sale pursuant to a mortgage
foreclosure. The term OWNER shall also include partnerships and other
unincorporated associations. Any individual OWNER, regardless of whether he or
she shares ownership responsibility with any other person, any general partner
of a partnership and any officer of a corporation or unincorporated
association, shall have direct and personal responsibility and liability for
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any building, house, shed, accessory structure, fence or
other human-made structure or part thereof, including the premises where such
structure is located, which by reason of its faulty construction, age, lack of
repair, lack of reasonable and adequate maintenance, continued vacancy or other
cause is:
      (1)   Endangering human health, life or limb or is likely to cause the
spread of disease or otherwise cause injury to the health of persons or to
surrounding neighborhood structure;
      (2)   Susceptible to the occurrence of fire and constitutes or creates a
fire hazard;
      (3)   Liable to cause injury or damage to persons or property by collapse
or by the danger of collapse of any part of the structure;
      (4)   Unsecured, open and available to and frequented by malefactors,
disorderly persons or juveniles who are not lawful occupants of such structure;
      (5)   Creating a deteriorating and blighting influence on nearby
properties and causes depreciation in the use, enjoyment and value of
properties in the immediately surrounding area to such an extent that it is
harmful to the community in which such structure is situated; and
      (6)   Subject to provisions of Chapter 91.
   STRUCTURE UNFIT FOR HUMAN OCCUPANCY. A structure that is unsafe, or because
of the degree in which it lacks maintenance or is in disrepair, is unsanitary,
vermin or rat infested, contains filth and contamination or lacks ventilation,
illumination, sanitary or heating facilities or other essential equipment, or
because its location constitutes a hazard to its occupants or to the public.
   UNSAFE STRUCTURE. A structure in which all or part thereof is found to be
dangerous to life, health, property or the safety of the public or its
occupants because it is so damaged, decayed, dilapidated, structurally unsafe
or of such faulty construction or unstable condition that it is likely to
partially or completely collapse.
   VACANT BUILDING. A structure which is unoccupied for 90 days or more or
which constitutes a structure unfit for human occupancy, an unsafe building or
a building or premises that are a public nuisance. In the case of structures
containing multiple dwelling units, multiple commercial or industrial units or
a combination thereof, a building shall be considered vacant when a majority of
the units are unoccupied unless any part of the building is considered unfit
for human habitation, unsafe or a public nuisance, then the entire premises
shall be considered subject to these regulations.
(Prior Code, § 9.17.02)
§ 156.03 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   All buildings presently located within the city which are vacant, as
defined in this chapter, or which hereafter become vacant, shall be registered
by the owner thereof with the City Manager, or his or her designated
representative, within 30 days of being or becoming a vacant structure.
   (B)   Registration shall be made on forms supplied by the City Manager and
shall include:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the owner;
      (2)   The name, address and telephone number of a local agent or
representative if the owner is not a resident of the county or Hocking County.
Agents shall be required to be residents of the county or Hocking County, at
least 18 years of age. Every owner of a vacant building shall designate an
agent who, in addition to the owner, shall be responsible for care of the
premises and who may accept service of process and official notices on behalf
of the owner. An official notice or service of process issued to a designated
agent shall be deemed as served or delivered upon the owner of record;
      (3)   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of all persons with any
legal interest in the property, buildings and premises, including, but not
limited to, holders of land contracts, mortgages and other interest in equity;
      (4)   A legal description and the tax parcel identification number of the
premises on which the building or structure is located;
      (5)   The common address of the building or premises;
      (6)   The date on which the building became or has become vacant; and
      (7)   A vacant building plan as hereinafter described.
   (C)   Registration of a vacant building or structure shall be valid for a
period of one year.
      (1)   If the building is vacant at the expiration of any registration
period and requirements of the vacant building plan are not completed, then the
owner shall re-register such building and pay an additional renewal fee
established by separate City Council ordinance.
      (2)   If the building is vacant at the expiration of any registration
period and the requirements of the vacant building plan are completed, the
owner shall re-register such building without filing a new vacant building plan
or paying an additional filing fee.
   (D)   The registration of a vacant building shall not preclude action by the
city to demolish or force rehabilitation of the building pursuant to the
provisions of §§
91.30 through
91.39 or other fire, safety, health, sanitation or public nuisance law.
   (E)   Upon registration of any previously unregistered building pursuant to
this chapter, or when any such vacant building comes to the attention of the
city, the City Manager may cause inspections to be made of the premises to
determine the condition of such building and premises and whether there exist
any fire, safety, health, sanitation or public nuisance hazards upon the
premises and shall provide notice to the owners thereof to comply with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9.17.03) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.04 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   As a minimum requirement, all vacant buildings, as defined in this
chapter, shall conform to the following requirements.
      (1)   Foundations shall provide structural support at all load bearing
structural components and be free from holes and cracks which might admit
vermin, rodents, insects, snakes, stray animals, water and dampness to the
interior of the building.
      (2)   (a)   Exterior walls and other exterior surfaces, including
basement and cellar hatchways, shall be free of holes, cracks, loose and/or
rotting boards and siding material which might admit vermin, rodents, insects,
snakes, stray animals, rain and dampness to the interior of the building.
         (b)   Wood and ferrous materials shall be maintained free of loose,
peeling or flaking paint.
      (3)   (a)   Windows shall fully contain glass in their frames and sashes,
be fully glazed without holes or cracks, shall fit reasonably well in their
frames and shall be supplied with mechanisms to prevent entry from the
exterior.
         (b)   Windows and doors failing this criteria may be boarded in
accordance with divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) below if approved by the City
Manager, or his or her designated representative.
      (4)   Exterior doors shall be operable, structurally sound, weather-proof
and water-proof, maintained in good working order, fit reasonably well in their
frames and shall be supplied with mechanisms to prevent entry from the
exterior.
      (5)   Roof coverings and flashing shall be provided and maintained so as
to prevent the entrance of rain, snow, moisture, vermin, birds or any other
animal causing nuisance.
      (6)   Roof gutters and downspouts shall be provided to collect, conduct
and discharge all water from the roof to a location so as not to cause
detriment to the structure, its foundation or adjacent properties.
      (7)   Chimneys shall be free of cracks, holes or missing portions and
maintained in good repair.
      (8)   Exterior stairs, steps and landings shall be safe to use;
maintained free of missing, rotting or deteriorated parts; and kept in sound
condition and good repair.
      (9)   Structural components shall be free from deterioration and damage,
maintained to function as originally designed or shall be repaired or replaced.
      (10)   The grounds of the premises shall be kept free of weeds, grass,
tree limbs, debris, trash, garbage, refuse, rubbish, special rubbish and litter
so as not to degrade and debase the general nature and character of the
neighborhood; minimize the potential for spreading of noxious weeds and
grasses; and minimize conditions creating potential harborage for vermin,
rodents, insects, snakes and stray animals.
      (11)   Grass shall be mowed during summer months in conformance with §
91.01.
      (12)   Public sidewalks shall be kept free of snow and ice during the
winter months in accordance with §
91.05.
      (13)   No junk, abandoned, unlicensed or inoperable motor vehicle shall
be parked on the premises outside a completely enclosed building except those
properly licensed as a collector’s vehicle stored in accordance with §
153.158.
      (14)   No used building material, scrap metal, unusable appliances or
other objectionable material shall be stored on the premises outside a
completely enclosed structure and shall be stored in conformance with §§
91.06 and
91.15.
      (15)   The interior of the building or structure, including any garage
area, storage area and/or accessory structure, shall be clean and free of
debris, garbage, trash, rubbish, refuse, litter and filth so as to minimize the
potential for unhealthy or unsanitary conditions which may attract vermin,
rodents, insects, snakes and stray animals.
   (B)   All buildings, which, in addition to being vacant as defined in this
chapter, not in conformance with divisions (A)(3) and (A)(4) above, and are
open and unsecured to trespass, shall additionally meet the following
requirements.
      (1)   All windows and doors at or below the ground floor area, including
any basement or detached accessory structure, shall be fully glazed, fit
reasonably well in their frames, be secured to preclude entry or boarded up and
secured with a minimum one-half inch sheathing grade plywood, OSB board or
equivalent. In no case shall the sheathing be affixed for a period longer than
30 days without being painted to match the exterior of the structure. All other
openings above the ground floor shall contain doors and/or windows in
conformance with divisions (A)(3) and (A)(4) above or shall be boarded up as
per ground floor requirements, if ordered or approved by the City Manager.
      (2)   Sheathing shall be applied in a neat, orderly, weather tight and
workpersonlike manner; cut reasonably well to the size of the opening; and
painted to match the exterior color scheme of the structure.
   (C)   Any structure in the city, falling within the meaning of any of the
definition of STRUCTURE UNFIT FOR HUMAN OCCUPANCY, UNSAFE STRUCTURE or PUBLIC
NUISANCE is hereby declared to be illegal and to constitute a public nuisance
which shall be subject to abatement by repair or demolition in accordance with
the provisions of §§
91.30 through
91.39.
(Prior Code, § 9.17.04) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.05 VACANT BUILDING PLAN.
   (A)   (1)   When a building or structure is to be registered as required
herein, the owner or agent shall submit a vacant building plan.
      (2)   The plan shall contain, at a minimum, the following:
         (a)   A plan of action to maintain the building and premises thereof
in conformance with all laws of the city and state, with reference to premises
security and protection from vandalism;
         (b)   An approved plan for fire alarm and fire protection if required
by the City Fire Department;
         (c)   The name and address of a local company, person or designated
agent who can be called when emergencies occur and who may provide inspection
access or make immediate repairs to windows, doors, alarm systems or other
facilities or utilities. The company, person or designated agent shall be
located in or a resident of a either the county or Hocking County and at least
18 years of age;
         (d)   A plan of action to remedy any fire, safety, health, sanitation
or public nuisance existing or occurring in the building or on the premises;
         (e)   Any plans for demolishing or altering structures or buildings,
along with a time schedule for such activity;
         (f)   Certification of insurance that will be applicable on the
property during the time of vacancy;
         (g)   Any planned changes in ownership or interest in the property;
         (h)   If required, a lighting plan for parking or loading areas and
night-time illumination of areas and walkways of the building which may be
vulnerable to vandalism or criminal activity, as determined by the City
Manager, Chief of Police or the City Manager’s designated representative;
         (i)   A listing of any and all motor vehicles that will be stored on
the premises, along with the registration and ownership of such vehicles and a
certification that current license and registration will be maintained or the
vehicles stored in an enclosed building; and
         (j)   A plan in accordance with the requirements of §
156.04 for the maintenance of all structural items, such as windows, doors and
other openings, so as to avoid the necessity of any boarding up, which is
prohibited unless required and approved by the City Manager, and a plan for the
regular maintenance of all exterior lighting fixtures and the illumination of
the building, premises and walkways adjacent thereto. If a store front window
is involved, a form of display shall be submitted to and approved by the City
Manager, or his or her designated representative, so as to avoid the appearance
of vacancy and to avoid papering, soaping and/or boarding up.
   (B)   The plan shall be reviewed and approved by the City Manager, or his or
her designated representative, and implemented and completed within 30 days of
the date that the building is registered under this chapter.
   (C)   The vacant building plan shall remain in effect, notwithstanding a
change in ownership. A new owner shall be required to file a new registration
with the City Manager within five days of ownership and supply the names,
addresses and telephone numbers of the new owners, along with any required
information, including new agent name that may be different from that set forth
in the original plan and registration.
   (D)   Failure to comply with the approved plan shall constitute a violation
of this section, subjecting the owner of the building to the penalties provided
in this chapter or any other applicable regulation.
(Prior Code, § 9.17.05) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.06 EXEMPTIONS.
   Exemptions include the following:
   (A)   Abandoned residential property pending foreclosure;
   (B)   Properties that are part of an estate undergoing probate and not
subject to bankruptcy provided the administrator or executor of the estate
resides in a contiguous county;
   (C)   Rental properties actively being marketed for rental;
   (D)   A building which has suffered fire damage or damage caused by extreme
weather conditions shall be exempt from the registration requirement for a
period of 90 days after the date of the fire and extreme weather event if the
property owner submits a request for exemption in writing to the Code
Enforcement Officer. This request shall include the names and addresses of the
owner or owners, and a statement of intent to repair and reoccupy the building
in an expedient manner, or the intent to demolish the building;
   (E)   A building that is for sale provided that the owner submits proof that
it is listed in the MLS to the Code Enforcement Officer;
   (F)   A single-family home or owner-occupied two-family dwelling has been
used as a residence for at least 90 days (three months) in the last 270 days
(nine months) and the owner intends to resume living in the dwelling;
   (G)   A building under active construction/renovation/restoration where a
building plan has been submitted to the Code Enforcement Officer but no later
than one year (365 days);
   (H)   Any building that is owned by the land bank; and
   (I)   Any owner of a vacant building may request an exemption for other
reasons (i.e., actively marketing as a rental) from the provisions of
Chapter 156 by filing a written application with the Code Enforcement Officer.
The applicant understands that the Code Officer shall consider the following:
      (1)   The applicant’s prior record as it pertains to the city housing
code, building code or property maintenance code violations;
      (2)   The amount of vacant property that the applicant currently has
within the city; and
      (3)   The length of time that the building for which the exception is
sought has been vacant. Documentation required.
(Ord. 67-20, passed 11-29-2020)
§ 156.07 FEES.
   (A)   (1)   A vacant property registration form and registration fee shall
be filed with the City Manager.
      (2)   Fees for the registration of vacant property shall be established
by separate City Council ordinance.
   (B)   The fees described in this section are established in order to defray
the cost to the city government and community as a whole related to the health,
safety and economic impacts of structures which remain vacant for long periods
of time, including, but not limited to, administrative costs for registering
and processing the vacant building owner registration form and for the costs
incurred by the city in monitoring the vacant building site. The fees are also
structured in order to provide appropriate incentives for owners of vacant
buildings to care for them properly, seek to fill them and, in appropriate
cases, demolish them. The annually increased fee amounts are intended to absorb
the costs incurred by the city for demolition and hazard abatement of or
repairs to vacant buildings, as well as the continued normal administrative
costs stated above.
      (1)   The owner of a vacant building shall pay a fee of $100 with
registration of a vacant property. For every consecutive year that the building
remains vacant, an annual fee will be assessed at double the previous year’s
fee for a maximum annual fee equaling the five-year fee of $1,600 to be used
for the fifth and for all consecutive, subsequent years of vacancy.
      (2)   The first annual fee shall be paid at the time the building is
registered. If the owner successfully restores the building to occupancy or
demolishes it in accordance with applicable City Code during the year following
registration and there have been no violations associated with the property,
the fee shall be refunded, less an administrative charge equal to any cost the
city has incurred.
      (3)   All fees shall be paid in full prior to the issuance of any zoning
or demolition permits unless the property is granted an exemption.
      (4)   All fees including delinquent fees shall be paid by the owner prior
to any transfer of an ownership interest in the vacant building. A lien may be
placed on the property to collect delinquent fees.
(Prior Code, § 9.17.06) (Ord. 67-20, passed 11-29-2020) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.08 OWNERSHIP OF UNREGISTERED BUILDINGS.
   (A)   No person shall own a vacant building or property, as defined in this
chapter, unless the building is registered with the City Manager in accordance
with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   When a building, structure and/or premises are not registered as
vacant, the City Manager shall cause written notice to be served by certified
mail upon the owner, and, if different, the person having charge of the land,
notifying them that registration of the vacant property is necessary.
      (2)   If the address of the owner or person having charge of the property
in question is unknown, it shall be sufficient for the City Manager to cause
notice to be published once in a newspaper of general circulation in the
county.
      (3)   In lieu of the above, the City Manager, his or her designated
representative or any police officer may make personal or residence service and
return of the notice provided for herein, which shall be duly noted by the City
Manager, setting forth the cost of the notice or publication.
      (4)   Upon failure of the owner or person having charge of the property
in question to comply with the notice within the period of time stipulated, the
City Manager shall give notice if the building is open and unsecured, to
proceed with any requirements of §
156.03.
      (5)   (a)   Upon the completion of such labor, the City Manager shall
determine all costs associated thereof, including registration fees, plus
administrative fees. In the event the city is required to employ outside
services for the abatement work, the fee shall be the actual cost of the
contract plus 15% for administration charges.
         (b)   The total labor costs and registration fee shall be forwarded by
the City Manager to the County Auditor of such total charge which shall be
entered upon the tax duplicate of the county and be allocated onto the taxes of
the property in accordance with R.C. § 731.54.
(Prior Code, § 9.17.07) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.09 INTERPRETATION OF CHAPTER.
   This chapter shall not, in any manner, abrogate any of the other provisions
of any building, property maintenance or nuisance codes of the city pertaining
to the abatement of public nuisances or unsafe buildings.
(Prior Code, § 9.17.08)
§ 156.10 APPEALS.
   The building plan, as agreed upon and approved by the City Manager, with the
advice and consultation of applicable departments of the city and the City
Attorney, shall be binding upon the building owner and any interested person.
Any disagreement between city representatives and the owner shall be subject to
appeal to the City Planning Commission or, in the case of the Historic
District, the Design Review Committee.
(Prior Code, § 9.17.09)
§ 156.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.30 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   In addition to penalties prescribed for public nuisances and nuisance
abatement, whosoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter is guilty
of a minor misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   Absent a showing of good case, if a building is not registered within
the timeframe required in division (B) above, or the registration is not
renewed within 30 days after the expiration of one year from the date of the
previous registration, a penalty shall be paid in addition to the annual
registration fee. The penalty shall be equal to one-half of the current annual
fee or $800, whichever is less.
(Prior Code, § 9.17.99) (Ord. 67-20, passed 11-29-2020)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
      
II.   FUNDS AND BONDS
      
III.   ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES
      
IV.   EASEMENTS
      
V.   ZONING
      
VI.   CHANGING STREET NAMES
      
VII.   VACATING PROPERTY
      
VIII.   SALE, GIFT, LEASING AND APPROPRIATION OF    PROPERTY
      
IX.   ACQUISITION AND DISPOSITION OF REAL    PROPERTY
      
X.   MISCELLANEOUS
TABLE I: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
04-15 1-12-  Executing a contract with ODOT and pay an invoice for the city s share of
      2015   improvements to State Route 78 being 16.5 miles
10-15 1-26-  Filing an application with the state to participate in the small cities
      2015   community development block grant
12-15 2-23-  Declaring a labor contract with the Fire Department
      2015
13-15 2-23-  Declaring a labor contract with service workers
      2015
14-15 3-9-   Adopting a labor contract with the Police Department
      2015
      3-23-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a commercial and residential rubbish,
16-15 2015   refuse and recycle collection contract with Southern Ohio Disposal for the two-
             year period from April 1, 2015 to March 31, 2017
18-15 3-23-  Participation in the ODOT cooperative purchase program for street salt
      2015
Res.  5-11-  Requesting the City Attorney take action to enforce the exclusive solid waste
2170  2015   franchise of Southern Ohio Waste Disposal
Res.  5-26-  Identifying and authorizing agents to execute and administer FEMA Hazard
2169  2015   Mitigation Grant FEMA-DR-4098.15- R-OH
39-15 7-13-  Executing a contract with ODOT for the State Route 278 Project PID No. 84514
      2015
40-15 8-24-  Approving the Harper Street ODOT Project
      2015
45-15 9-14-  Approving the ODOT State Route 278 ODOT Project
      2015
57-15 10-26- Authorizing the City Manager to execute an agreement with Energy Solutions for
      2015   lighting upgrades
59-15 11-9-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with AEP Energy Services for
      2015   electric service
58-15 11-23- Executing a contract with ODOT for the Hocking Valley Scenic Railway Phase 2
      2015   PID 101900 Project
65-15 12-14- Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Artesian of Pioneer
      2015   (AOP) for salt for the water treatment plant
             Authorizing the City Manager to execute a housing revolving loan administration
02-16 1-25-  agreement with the State Department of Development and an administrative
      2016   service agreement with the Hocking, Athens, Perry Community Action Agency for
             the period beginning January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2018
      2-8-   Authorizing a cooperative agreement for construction, maintenance and operation
06-16 2016   of state sewer project between the city and the state water development
             authority
07-16 2-8-   Authorizing the city to participate in the state s Cooperative Purchasing
      2016   Program
      2-8-   Authorizing a cooperative agreement for construction, maintenance and operation
08-16 2016   of state s sewer project between the city and the state s water development
             authority
      3-28-  Entering into a partnership with the county for the submission of applications
11-16 2016   to the Office of Community Development, State Development Services Agency
             (ODSA) for the fiscal year 2016 CHIP Grant
49-16 12-12- Authorizing the State Department of Transportation to do bridge inspections for
      2016   the city
07-17 2-27-  Authorizing the City Manager to sign a contract with United Health Care for
      2017   Medical Insurance
09-17 2-27-  Authorizing a contract with Charles Barga to perform duties as a Transition
      2017   Officer
      2-27-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a commercial and residential rubbish,
12-17 2017   refuse and recycle collection contract with Rumpke for the three-year period
             from April 1, 2017 to March 31, 2020
Res.  4-10-  Authorizing the city to prepare and submit an application to participate in the
2190  2017   Appalachia Regional Commission/Governor s Office of Appalachia Program(s) and
             to execute contracts as required
16-17 4-24-  Authorizing a contract with Charles Barga to perform duties as City Manager
      2017
Res.  4-24-  Participating in the ODOT winter contract (018-18) for road salt
2193  2017
24-17 6-12-  Adopting a labor contract with the Fire Department
      2017
25-17 6-12-  Adopting a labor contract with the Police Department
      2017
26-17 6-12-  Adopting a labor contract with service workers
      2017
30-17 6-12-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with IBI Engineering for the
      2017   Downtown Revitalization Project
40-17 7-31-  Authorizing the City Manager to sign a contract with Stantec for engineering
      2017   services concerning the replacement of the city s wastewater treatment plant
44-17 8-14-  Authorizing the City Manager to sign a contract with the county for the 911
      2017   lease
50-17 10-9-  Authorizing the City Manager to sign a contract with the IBI Group for
      2017   evaluation of the water treatment plant
64-17 12-11- Authorizing the City Manager to sign a contract for an environmental study for
      2017   the regional sewer plant project
02-18 1-22-  Signing a contract with PEP for property and causlty insurance
      2018
Res.  3-12-  Reconstruction of sidewalks to improve pedestrian access on Columbus,
2204  2018   Washington, Fort and Hocking Street
             Entering into a partnership agreement with the City of Athens and the Athens
      4-9-   County Commissioners as applicant, and grantee if funded, for submission of an
18-18 2018   application to the office of community development, State Development Service
             Agency (ODSA) for the program year (PY) 2018 Community Housing Impact and
             Preservation Program (CHIP)
20-18 4-9-   Declaring a real and present emergency to repair the Pine Grove slip and road
      2018   and authorizing the City Manager to sign a contract
19-18 4-23-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract for the paving of Pine
      2018   Grove from above the incline area to the end of the road
22-18 4-23-  Adopting a labor contract with the Fire Department for the period from January
      2018   1, 2018 to December 31, 2020
23-18 4-23-  Adopting an agreement with Hocking County for sewage treatment
      2018
Res.  5-14-  Participation in the ODOT winter contract (018-19) for road salt
2208  2018
34-18 6-25-  Adopting a labor contract with service workers
      2018
      7-9-   Applying for, accepting and entering into a water supply revolving loan account
35-18 2018   agreement on behalf of the city for planning, design and/or construction of
             water facilities and designating a dedicated repayment source for the loan
      8-27-  Authorizing the city to apply for, accept and enter into a cooperative
39-18 2018   agreement for planning of the wastewater treatment plant replacement project
             between the city and the State Water Development authority
      8-27-  Preparing and submitting an application to participate in the State Public
41-18 2018   Works Commission state capital improvement and/or local transportation
             improvement program(s) and to execute contracts as required
42-18 9-10-  Authorizing the City Manager and City Attorney to sign the Department of Army
      2018   Corp of Engineers and the city s regional wastewater treatment plant contract
      9-10-  Participation with the Department of the Army Corps of Engineers for the design
45-18 2018   and construction of the city s Regional Wastewater Treatment Plant Design and
             Construction Project
46-18 9-24-  Authorizing the City Manager, City Auditor and City Attorney to sign the public
      2018   defender contract
51-18 10-8-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Stantec for Engineering
      2018   Services for the Woodlane Drive Bridge Project
      11-12- Preparing and submitting an application to participate in the Appalachia
52-18 2018   Regional Commission/Governor s office of Appalachia Program(s) and to execute
             contracts as required
01-19 1-7-   Revising the sewer plant project and authorizing the City Manager to execute a
      2019   revised contract with Stantec for engineering services
04-19 1-28-  Signing the State EMA grant for Riverside Drive
      2019
      1-28-  Participation with the Department of the Army Corps of Engineers for the design
06-19 2019   and construction of the city s regional wastewater treatment plant collection
             improvements project phase 1
10-19 3-25-  Executing an agreement with ODOT for the U.S. 33 2.43 roadway ditch and repair
      2019   of culvert under the county U.S. 33 0243 Bridge, PID No. 108730
13-19 4-8-   Executing an agreement with ODOT for the concrete bridge deck overlay on State
      2019   Route 278 (SFN 050337) over the Hocking River within the city
20-19 4-22-  Adopting a labor contract with the Police Department
      2019
22-19 5-13-  Entering into a contract with ODOT for Phase II of the Downtown Sidewalk
      2019   Project
23-19 5-13-  Entering into an agreement for the establishment of the Outdoor Recreation
      2019   Council of Appalachia Council of Governments
28-19 5-13-  Entering into a contract with Dixon Enterprises for the Dorr Run Road and
      2019   Lengeyl Lane culvert and storm drain repair and replacement
34-19 6-10-  Signing a contract with Horizon/FreedomLinx for the acquisition of a new phone
      2019   system and installing fiber optics lines for the City Hall
37-19 7-8-   Executing a contract with Lanning Mechnical, Inc. to convert the City Hall from
      2019   electric heat to gas heat
44-19 8-12-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract with HAPCAP for a HUD
      2019   Community Block Grant program
46-19 8-12-  Entering into contracts with the State Department of Transportation for
      2019   municipal bridge inspections
47-19 8-12-  Repairing and replacing the ten inch water line that extends from the water
      2019   plan underneath in the Hocking River to West Washington Street
Res.  8-12-  Participation in the ODOT winter contract (019-20) for road salt
2221  2019
             Tentatively awarding the construction contracts to Rock River Construction, LTD
52-19 9-9-   and Stonegate Construction, Inc. for the city s regional wastewater treatment
      2019   plant collection improvements phase I, subject to final approval of funding for
             the project from the State EPA
54-19 9-9-   Executing the street sweeper facilities grant agreement
      2019
             Replacing Ord. 43-19; authorizing the City Manager to prepare and submit an
56-19 9-23-  application to participate in the State Public Works Commission State Capital
      2019   Improvement and/or local transportation improvement program(s) and to execute
             contracts are required
64-19 10-14- Executing a contract with Shelly and Sands for remediation services for the
      2019   Riverside Drive Landslide Project
      10-28- Preparing and submitting an application to participate in the Appalachia
62-19 2019   Regional Commission/Governor s office of Appalachia Program(s) and executing
             contracts as required
66-19 10-28- Authorizing a uniform accounting network participation agreement with the State
      2019   Auditor
67-19 10-28- Executing a hazard mitigation grant
      2019
70-19 10-28- Executing a contract with George J. Igel, Inc. to repair the Woodlane Drive
      2019   slip
72-19 11-11- Accepting and executing the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) community
      2019   facilities police cruisers grant agreement
             Applying to the OWDA un-sewered area assistance program, accept and enter into
75-19 12-9-  a cooperative agreement for construction of the city s Regional Wastewater
      2019   Treatment Plant Phase 2 Project between the city and the state water
             development authority
05-21 1-26-  Awarding the Church Street project contract to the George J. Igel and Co., Inc.
      2020
03-20 1-27-  Authorizing a contract with the county and Buchtel to purchase the County Water
      2020   and Sewer System servicing Buchtel
04-20 1-27-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Stantec for engineering
      2020   services for the Church Street Slip Repair FEMA Project
      1-27-  Authorizing the City Manager to extend the Rumpke Contract for collection,
05-20 2020   transportation and disposal of refuse, rubbish and recyclables at residential
             and commercial locations until March 31, 2021
17-20 4-13-  Authorizing the City Manager to hire FreedomLinx, LLC for general IT support
      2020   services
             Soliciting engineering requests for qualifications to prepare detailed plans
      4-13-  and specifications and to provides engineering services during bidding and
21-20 2020   construction for various water system improvements including new water meters
             for Buchtel and the city, waterline replacements, valve and hydrant
             replacements and water well and water treatment plant issues
35-20 5-11-  Adopting regulations for the installation and/or repair, or the cutting and
      2020   patching of roadways for the use of utilities in the city right-of-way
38-20 6-8-   Approving sewer project force main contract changes
      2020
      6-8-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Stantec Engineering to
41-20 2020   provide design, engineering, bidding, funding assistance and construction
             services for the city s water system improvements project
      6-8-   Authorizing the city to apply for, accept and enter into a cooperative
42-20 2020   agreement for design of the wastewater treatment plant replacement project
             between the city and the state development authority
57-20 7-27-  Authorizing the City Auditor to sign an agreement with Careworks for BWC
      2020   representation
61-20 7-27-  Authorizing the City Manager to contract with Hocking College to provide
      2020   dispatching service at no cost until December 31, 2020
      9-14-  Submitting an application to participate in the State Public Works Commission
68-20 2020   State Capital Improvement and/or Local Transportation Improvement Program(s)
             and to execute contracts
84-20 11-9-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Stantec for engineering
      2020   services for Sewer Plant Project Phase III
      11-23- Executing a contract with Great Lake Community Action Partnership to perform
90-20 2020   activity with respect to the CDBG Grant Program for Sewer Plant Project Phase
             III
91-20 11-23- Executing contracts with Henderson Aerial Survey, Terracon an RCAP for Sewer
      2020   Plant Project Phase III
92-20 11-23- Executing a contract with City Attorney Garry Hunter for Sewer Plant Project
      2020   Phase III
93-20 11-23- Executing a modification of the access for the cell tower lease located on the
      2020   sewer plant site
95-20 11-23- Authorizing the City Auditor and the President of the City Council to renew its
      2020   auditing contract with LGS audit services
97-20 12-4-  Authorizing the City Manager ti advertise and accept bids for a garbage and
      2020   recycling contract
104-  12-29- Authorizing the City Manager to cancel the contract for 911 with the County
20    2020   Commissioners
105-  12-29- Authorizing the City Manager to negotiate a new 911 contract with Hocking
20    2020   College
      2-22-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a commercial and residential rubbish,
08-21 2021   refuse and recycling collection contract with Athens-Hocking Recycling Centers,
             Inc. for the three-year period from April 1, 2021 to March 31, 2024
12-21 3-8-   Adopting a labor contract with service workers
      2021
15-21 3-8-   Adopting a labor contract with the Fire Department
      2021
             Authorizing execution and delivery of the cooperative agreement for
25-21 3-22-  construction, maintenance and operation of state wastewater project - USDA
      2021   rural development load advance program - between the city s and the state s
             water development authority
      3-22-  Tentatively awarding the construction contract to Kirk Bros. Co. Inc. for the
26-21 2021   city s Regional Wastewater Treatment Plant Phase II Project, subject to the
             final approval of funding for the project from the state EPA
17-21 4-12-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with American Legal
      2021   Publishing
18-21 4-12-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with software solution
      2021
28-21 4-12-  Adopting a labor contract with the Police Department
      2021
34-21 5-10-  Consenting to the assignment of engineering contract with Stantec to DLZ
      2021
             Tentatively awarding the waterline construction contract to Rock River
38-21 5-10-  Construction, LTD and the water meter construction contract to Ferguson
      2021   Waterworks, subject to final approval of funding for the project from the State
             EPA
42-21 6-7-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with AT&T for construction
      2021   work related to sewer plant construction
45-21 6-28-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with AEP to remove
      2021   electrical lines along the front of the waste water treatment plant
46-21 6-28-  Approving change order No. 5 for Phase I of the Pump Station and Trunk Sewer
      2021   Project
48-21 6-28-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract for the PaydHealth Rx
      2021   Program
49-21 6-28-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute documents necessary for the Phase III
      2021   Sewer Project EPA review fee and plan submission
50-21 6-28-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with iTech and Xerox
      2021   Financial Services, LLC for copiers
      7-12-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with All State Electrical
53-21 2021   Service to relocate utilities to the cell tower at the waste water treatment
             plant
56-21 7-12-  Authorizing the City Manager and City Auditor to execute a contract with K.
      2021   Robert Toy, Attorney at Law
      8-9-   Authorizing the City Manager to prepare and submit and application to
57-21 2021   participate in the Ohio Water and Wastewater Infrastructure Grant Program and
             execute contracts as required
      8-9-   Authorizing the City Manager to prepare and submit and application to
58-21 2021   participate in the Ohio Water and Wastewater Infrastructure Grant Program and
             execute contracts as required
             Authorizing the City Manager to prepare and submit an application to
59-21 8-9-   participate in the Ohio Public Works Commission State Capital Improvement and/
      2021   or Local Transportation Improvement Program(s) and to execute contracts as
             required
63-21 8-9-   Authorizing the City Manager to accept the material terms of the One Ohio
      2021   Subdivision Settlement and sign the participation form
66-21 8-9-   Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Real World Cleaning
      2021   Services to clean, maintain and sanitize City Hall
67-21 9-13-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a contract with Artesian of Pioneer
      2021   Water Treatment Systems (AOP)
69-21 9-13-  Approving a contract change order for Phase I of the Wastewater Project
      2021
76-21 9-27-  Authorizing the City Manager to approve the Mutual Aid Agreement between the
      2021   city and Hocking College
      10-11- Authorizing the City Manager to accept the EV Charging Project proposal and
83-21 2021   enter into a contract for the purchase and installation of two level-three
             electric vehicle charging stations
90-21 11-8-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into, accept and/or authorize the
      2021   contract change order for the 2020 water system improvements
91-21 11-8-  Amendment to the Ohio Small Group Pool (OSGP) Consortium Agreement and bylaws
      2021   needs made
      11-22- Authorizing the City Manager to enter into contracts with the Director of
94-21 2021   Transportation for completion of a specific lighting project, being PID No.
             112676
      11-22- Authorizing the City Manager and the Police Chief to enter into a contract with
95-21 2021   the Village of Bucthel for the city s Police Department to provide police
             services and mutual aid to the Village of Bucthel
      11-22- Authorizing the City Council President and the City Auditor to enter into a
96-21 2021   contract with Local Government Services (LGS) for new financial statement
             software
97-21 11-22- Authorizing the City Manager too accept and enter into the 2022 Water System
      2021   Improvements North Water Main River Crossing Replacement Agreement
      12-6-  Authorizing the City Manger to enter into a contract with Cochran Wrecking and
98-21 2021   Salvage to demolish and clean up 192 Fayette Street in a timely, safe and
             efficient manner
99-21 12-13- Authorizing the city Manager to award TAM Construction, Inc., the contract for
      2021   the VFW Lift Station Replacement Project
100-  12-13- Approving change order No. 2 for the Water System Improvement Waterline
21    2021   Project/Contract and authorizing the City Manager to sign and authorize the
             order
103-  12-27- Authorizing the City Manager to accept and enter into a contract for the
21    2021   installation of electric vehicle charging stations
02-22 1-10-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into the Lexipol Agreement with Lexipol,
      2022   LLC
10-22 1-24-  Authorizing the City Manager to approve and enter into the exception amendment
      2022   for the Natureworks Project #ATHE-026
11-22 2-28-  Authorizing the City Manager to apply for, accept, and enter into an Ohio EPA
      2022   Water Supply Revolving Loan Account (WSRLA) Agreement
12-22 2-28-  Authorizing the City Manager to apply for, accept, and enter into an Ohio EPA
      2022   Water Pollution Control Loan Fund (WPCLF) Agreement
14-22 2-14-  Authorizing City Manager to cancel the Water Tank Maintenance Contract with
      2022   Utility Service Co., Inc.
15-22 2-28-  Approving the change order for the VFW Lift Station Replacement Contract
      2022
16-22 2-28-  Approving the change order for the Water Systems Improvements Meters Contract
      2022
      4-11-  Tentatively awarding the Hocking River Crossing water main replacement 2022
31-22 2022   Construction contract to Precise Boring of Ohio, LLC, subject to final approval
             of funding for the project from the State Environmental Protection Agency
32-22 4-11-  Authorizing the Renewal of the city s agreement for the Group Retrospective
      2022   Rating Program for 2023 with Sedgewick for the city s managed care organization
33-22 4-11-  Approving change order No. 3 for the Water Systems Improvements Meters Contract
      2022
34-22 5-9-   Approving waste water treatment plant Phase Two change order one
      2022
39-22 5-9-   Authorizing City Auditor to sign a 3% increase renewal with the Ohio Small
      2022   Groups Pool
41-22 5-9-   Tentatively awarding the Nelsonville Regional Collection System Improvements
      2022   Phase 3 project construction contract to D.V. Webber Construction, Inc.
44-22 5-23-  Approving Waste Water Treatment Plant phase two change order two
      2022
45-22 5-23-  Approving change order three for 2020 water systems improvements
      2022
46-22 5-23-  Approving change order three for water systems improvements meter contract
      2022
53-22 7-11-  Approving waste water treatment plant phase two change order three for
      2022   Nelsonville Regional Collection System Project
      7-11-  Authorizing the City Manager to accept, enter into, and approve the July 6,
54-22 2022   2022 professional services agreement - Nelsonville Water System Improvements
             phase two
      9-12-  Authorizing and directing the City Manager to execute a contract with a
62-22 2022   Regional Council of Governments for the purpose of administration and
             collection of municipal income tax
67-22 9-26-  Approving change order one for the North Hocking River Crossing water main
      2022   replacement contract
      9-26-  Authorizing the City Manager and City Auditor to approve and renew the city s
68-22 2022   agreement with Local Government Services (LGS) in order to prepare the 2022
             financial statements
      11-28- Authorizing the City Manager and Acting Police Chief to enter into a contract
74-22 2022   with the Village of Bucthel for the Nelsonville Police Department to provide
             police services and mutual aid to the Village of Bucthel
84-22 12-6-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into the subgrant contract for the
      2022   survivor advocacy outreach program
85-22 12-12- Approving waste water treatment Plant Phase Two change order four for the
      2022   Nelsonville Regional Collection System Project
01-23 1-9-   Approving change order 4 for 2020 water systems improvements - waterline
      2023   contract
02-23 1-9-   Approving waste water treatment plant phase two change order 5
      2023
03-   1-23-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a professional services agreement
2023  2023   for the small cities paving project
04-23 1-9-   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into agreements for special prosecution
      2023   cases
05-23 2-13-  Authorizing the City Auditor to enter into agreements to collect money for
      2023   restitution
08-23 2-13-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a professional services agreement
      2023   for the small cities paving project
09-23 2-27-  Approving change order 1 for Nelsonville Regional collection phase three sewer
      2023   project
11-23 2-27-  Approving a professional services agreement for road repair and reconstruction
      2023   project
12-23 3-27-  Authorizing the City Auditor to enter into agreements to collect money for
      2023   restitution
13-23 3-13-  Authorizing the City Manager and/or City Auditor to opt in to national opioid
      2023   settlements
15-23 3-27-  Approving waste water treatment plant phase 2 change order 6 for Nelsonville
      2023   regional collection system project
18-23 4-24-  Tentatively awarding construction contract to DV Webber construction Inc.
      2023
20-23 4-24-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a professional services agreement
      2023   for the Nelsonville Downtown Revitalization - Washington Street project
26-23 5-8-   Authorizing the City Auditor to sign a rate increase of renewal agreement for
      2023   health insurance
37-23 6-12-  Approving waste water treatment plant phase two change order 7
      2023
38-23 6-12-  Approving change order two for regional collection phase three sewer project
      2023
43-23 8-14-  Approving the regional waste water collection system improvements phase 4
      2023
44-23 8-14-  Approving waste water treatment plant phase two change order 8 for collection
      2023   system project
47-23 8-14-  Approving the Acting City Manager s actions to make changes to the AEP, AEP
      2023   Energy and Freepoint contracts
50-23 9-11-  Approving change order one for Nelsonville water systems improvements phase two
      2023   project contract
51-23 9-11-  Approving change order three for Nelsonville regional collection phase three
      2023   sewer project
58-23 10-9-  Approving change order two for Nelsonville water systems improvements phase two
      2023   project contract
      10-23- Authorizing the City Manager and City Auditor to approve and renew the city’s
64-23 2023   agreement with Local Government Services in order to prepare the 2023 financial
             statements
65-23 10-23- Authorizing and approving the City Manager and City Auditor to enter into the
      2023   ArcGIS online work order integration with SSI- VIP contract
70-23 12-11- Approving wastewater treatment plant phase two “change order nine” for
      2023   Nelsonville regional collection system project
71-23 12-11- Approving change order three for Nelsonville water systems improvements phase
      2023   two project contract
74-23 12-11- Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract with Jonathan E. Robe to
      2023   be City Attorney for the month of December, 2023
            
 
TABLE II: FUNDS AND BONDS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
05-15         1-12-2015   Borrowing funds from the OPWC for the lift station
                          replacement of State Route 691
                          Authorizing the City Manager to submit an application
26-15         5-11-2015   to the State Department of Natural Resources for a
                          Nature Works Program funding
                          Authorizing the City Manager to make application for
30-15         5-26-2015   a grant for ODOT Tap Funds to benefit Hocking Valley
                          Scenic Railway
                          Authorizing the City Manager to make application to
31-15         5-26-2015   ODOT for Tap Funds to benefit Hocking Valley Scenic
                          Railway
                          Authorizing the City Manager to submit an application
27-16         5-9-2016    to the State Department of Natural Resources for a
                          Nature Works Program Funding
28-16         6-13-2016   Creating the Tap Grant Fund 650 and authorizing the
                          City Auditor to interfund transfer
                          Authorizing the City Manager to submit an application
19-17         4-24-2017   to the State Department of Natural Resources for a
                          Nature Works Program funding
                          Authorizing the City Manager to apply for, accept and
                          enter into a State EPA Water Pollution Control Loan
60-17         12-11-2017  Fund agreement on behalf of the city for design of
                          the WWTP replacement project and designating a
                          repayment source for the loan
                          Authorizing the City Manager to submit an application
27-18         5-14-2018   to the State Department of Natural Resources for
                          Nature Works Program funding
29-18         6-11-2018   Authorizing the City Manager to apply for Tap Grant
                          Funds
                          Authorizing the City Manager to apply for, accept and
                          enter into an state EPA Water Pollution Control Loan
11-19         3-25-2019   Fund (WPCLF) agreement on behalf of the city for
                          construction of Regional Wastewater Treatment Plant
                          Phase 1 Project and designating a repayment source
                          for the loan
                          Authorizing the City Manager to prepare and submit an
43-19         8-12-2019   application to participate in the State Public Works
                          Commission state capital improvement and/or local
                          transportation improvement program(s)
                          Authorizing the rural community assistance
                          partnership (RCAP) to submit the electronic
45-19         8-12-2019   application for CDBG residential public
                          infrastructure grant (RPIG) financing to the state
                          Development Services Agency for the Wastewater
                          Treatment Plant Replacement Project
50-19         9-9-2019    Authorizing the expenditure of grant moneys to the
                          Fire Department
53-19         9-9-2019    Authorizing the issuance of bonds for the purpose of
                          acquiring a new street sweeper and related equipment
63-19         10-14-2019  Creating the Street Sweeper Fund #800
                          Entering state EPA Water Pollution Control Loan Fund
74-19         12-9-2019   (WPCLF) agreement for construction of Regional
                          Wastewater Treatment Plant Phase 2 Project and
                          designating a repayment source
14-20         3-9-2020    Authorizing the issuance of sanitary sewer system
                          revenue bonds
19-20         4-13-2020   Authorizing the City Manager to hire bond counsel for
                          the police cruiser bonding
73-20         9-14-2020   Creating the K-9 Fund #425 and the CARES Act Fund
                          #920
                          Authorizing the City Manager to apply for, accept and
                          enter into an state EPA Water Pollution Control Loan
81-20         11-9-2020   Fund agreement on behalf of the city for design of
                          the Regional Collection System Improvements Phase 3
                          Project and designating a repayment source
11-21         3-8-2021    Creating the Sanitation Fund #730
20-21         4-12-2021   Creating the 925 American Rescue Plan Fund
35-21         5-10-2021   Engaging Dennis Schwalle Densmore Law Firm as bond
                          counsel for bond issuance
36-21         5-10-2021   Authorizing the issuance of sanitary sewer system
                          revenue bonds
                          Adopting the loan resolution authorizing and
                          providing for the incurrence of indebtedness for the
                          purpose of providing a portion of the cost of
37-21         5-10-2021   acquiring, constructing, enlarging, improving and/or
                          extending its construction of the new regional
                          sanitary sewer system facility to serve an area
                          lawfully within its jurisdiction to serve issuance of
                          bonds
                          Accepting donations from the Nelsonville Community
                          Foundation Fund, the Rocky Community Improvement
54-21         8-9-2021    Fund, The Baird Brothers Company Foundation and chili
                          cookoff attendees and organizers for donations to
                          pool activities and pool repairs
82-21         10-11-2021  Authorizing City Manager to accept Ohio Department of
                          Transportation Small City Program Grant award
                          Authorizing the City Manager, City Law Director and
05-22         2-14-2022   City Auditor to undertake any action necessary to
                          bring the former Betty J. Johnson Trust monies onto
                          the books and use said moneys for general expenses
47-22         5-23-2022   Accepting all donations for the dog park and creating
                          a dog park expense line item
                          Authorizing the issuance of a bond in an amount of
48-22         6-1-2022    $3,700,000 for sale to the Water Pollution Control
                          Loan Fund of the State of Ohio
                          Allowing the Nelsonville Fire Department to charge an
49-22         6-13-2022   $80 fee for CPR training and appropriating that
                          revenue into the General Fund for firefighter/
                          departmen t education training
                          Authorizing the City Manager to apply for, accept,
52-22         7-11-2022   and enter into an Ohio EPA water supply revolving
                          loan account
                          Creating the 130 Betty Johnson Fund so that trust
59-22         9-12-2022   monies can be placed onto the city s books and into
                          the City s treasury
                          Authorizing the City Manager and City Auditor to
60-22         9-12-2022   bring the Betty Johnson funds onto the city s books
                          and into the city s treasury
71-22         11-14-2022  Creating Fund Number 715: Credit Memo Fund
                          Authorizing the City Auditor to place a portion of
14-23         3-27-2023   the national opioid settlement agreement money in the
                          K9 fund
                          Authorizing the City Manager to apply for, accept,
16-23         3-27-2023   and enter into an Ohio EPA water supply revolving
                          loan account
19-23         4-24-2023   Authorizing the City Manager to enter into an Ohio
                          EPA water supply revolving loan account
                          Authorizing the city to use the Betty Johnson trust
23-23         5-8-2023    as a line of credit for the grant for the Washington
                          Street sidewalk project
30-23         5-8-2023    Accepting $10,000 from Pine Grove Kennels and placing
                          the monies in the K9 fund
31-23         5-8-2023    Accepting $5,500 donation from the Baird Brothers
                          Foundation and placing funds in the K9 fund
32-23         5-8-2023    Accepting $8,000 from the sale of K9 Attila and
                          placing monies in 2 funds
33-23         5-8-2023    Accepting Trans Canada grant and placing monies in
                          Operating Supplies fund
                          Accepting Ohio Attorney General s Best grant
34-23         5-8-2023    ($1,773.90) and placing moneis in the Operaing
                          Supplies fund
                          Authorizing City Manager to prepare and submit
41-23         8-14-2023   application to Ohio Public Works Commission local
                          transportation improvement program
                          Authorizing the City Manager to apply for, accept,
42-23         8-14-2023   and enter into an Ohio EPA water pollution control
                          loan fund agreement
                          Accepting the terms and conditions and the grant
49-23         9-11-2023   money for the Ohio EMA ARPA first responder retention
                          incentives in the amount of $37,085
                         
 
TABLE III: ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES
 
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
             Declaring a dwelling structure and premises at 394 Madison Street, the County
08-17 5-8-   Auditor’s Parcel #P030070001200 a public nuisance and ordering the repair or
      2017   removal of the structure and the site restored so as to abate the public
             nuisance
             Declaring specific dwelling structures and premises at 415 Adams Street, 518
             High Street, 773 High Street, 1128 High Street, 128-130 Jefferson Street, 306
23-17 6-12-  Madison Street, 495 Patton Street, 611 Patton Street, 576 Poplar Street, 784
      2017   Poplar Street and 160- 170-180 Crihfield Drive a public nuisance and ordering
             the repair or removal of the structures and the sites restored so as to abate
             the public nuisance
      6-15-  Declaring 253 Myers Street a public nuisance because it is dilapidated,
45-20 2020   dangerous, unsafe, unsanitary and unfit for human habitation and ordering the
             building razed
      9-12-  Declaring two trailers on 124 Toth Drive a public nuisance because they are
69-20 2020   dilapidated, dangerous, unsafe, unsanitary and unfit for human habitation and
             ordering the building razed
             Declaring specific structures and premises at 629 Walnut Street, 319 Oak
             Street, 339 Elizabeth Street, 823 Walnut Street, 518 West High Street, 902
             Chestnut Street, 12 Robbins Road, 611 Patton Street, 234 West Washington
      2-14-  Street, 230 Madison Street, 426 Pleasantview Street, 840 High Street, 235 St.
13-22 2022   John Street, 253 Myers Street, 633 West Washington Street, 60 Terrace Street,
             525 Patton Street, 473 Poplar Street, 773 High Street, 219 Frank Street, 774
             Chestnut Street, 855 High Street and 240 West Washington Street, a public
             nuisance because they are dilapidated, dangerous, unsafe, unsanitary and unfit
             for human habitations and ordering the buildings razed
            
 
TABLE IV: EASEMENTS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Accepting the donation of easement for road right-of-
                          way for Mt. St. Marys Drive (also known as W.
27-17         6-12-2017   Franklin Street) from Ohio Health Corporation to
                          align historical records with the actual location of
                          the roadway
                          Authorizing the City Manager to sign a building
25-18         5-14-2018   encroachment easement for a building on Jefferson
                          Street
                          Authorizing the City Manager and City Attorney to
44-18         9-24-2018   accept the donation of the Starr Village Water Town
                          as long as the City Attorney approves the donation of
                          the access easement and/or road right-of-way
                         
 
TABLE V: ZONING
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
23-15         5-11-2015   Granting a use variance for property located at 20
                          East Washington Street
32-16         7-11-2016   Granting a use variance for property located at 679,
                          685 and 687 Pleasantview Avenue
29-16         8-22-2016   Granting a use variance for property located at 178
                          Fort Street
                          Re-zoning land owned by Doctors OhioHealth
44-16         12-12-2016  Corporation from R-1 Single-family Residential to C-
                          2 Highway Commercial
02-17         1-23-2017   Granting variances to the Appalachian Center for
                          Economic Networks, Inc.
                         
 
TABLE VI: CHANGING STREET NAMES
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
07-15         1-12-2015   Renaming a portion of Harper Street and amending the
                          name of remaining portions of Harper Street
Res. 2171     7-13-2015   Designating the name of the city by-pass as the state
                          Senator C. Stanley Mechem Memorial Highway
05-17         2-13-2017   Renaming portions of High Street
63-17         12-11-2017  Renaming portion of First Street
                         
 
TABLE VII: VACATING PROPERTY
 
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
11-15 1-26-  Vacating a portion of a street right-of-way known as Buckeye Road
      2015
42-16 10-24- Vacating an alley between Lots 31 and 32
      2016
15-17 4-10-  Vacating a portion of a street and an alley in Patton’s Second Addition to
      2017   the city
28-17 6-26-  Vacating the alley between Lots 253 and 254
      2017
45-17 9-11-  Vacating the alley between Lots 1487, 1488 and 1489
      2017
            
 
TABLE VIII: SALE, GIFT, LEASING AND
APPROPRIATION OF PROPERTY
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
08-15 1-12-  Authorizing the transfer of lands not needed for public purposes
      2015   and accepting lands equal in area and value
23-16 4-25-  Authorizing the City Manager to enter into a contract for the lease
      2016   purchase of aquatech sewer jet vacuum truck
             Accepting 0.129 acres from the State Department of Transportation,
26-16 5-23-  previously owned by the Appalachian Center for Economic Networks,
      2016   Inc., for constructing a realignment of South Harper Street between
             East Canal Street and Jackson Street
18-17 4-24-  Authorizing the City Manager to sign a quit claim deed releasing a
      2017   covenant running with the land that is no longer needed
             Appropriating property in fee simple to construct and maintain a
Res.  3-25-  sewer plant for service to the city and service to the region
2214  2019   surrounding the city in, upon and over property owned by Darrel
             Lehman, Jr. and Peggy Lehman, 15814 Elm Rock Road
             Declaring 126 Jefferson Street, 0 Franklin Street, 135 Lyle Street,
30-19 5-20-  524 Patton Street, 532 Patton Street, 533 Back Street and 543 Back
      2019   Street not needed for a public purpose and authorizing the sale of
             said properties
      7-13-  Authorizing the City Manager to execute a lease agreement for 24
51-20 2020   Fulton Street to be used as a parking lot for the Aquatic Center
             and adjacent park
64-20 8-24-  Accepting the gift from Robert and Patricia McCarthy, DBA ONR, LLC
      2020   of the Starr Village Water Tower and the lot it is located on
      10-11- Authorizing the City Manager to sell the city’s dump truck to the
81-21 2021   County Engineer’s Office without the advertising and bidding
             process
86-21 10-11- Authorizing the Police Department to sell t- shirts for a K9 Fund
      2021   fundraiser
      2-28-  Authorizing the City Manager to take all steps necessary to sell
20-22 2022   old functioning water meter lids and to sell old concrete precast
             sewer structures
42-22 5-9-   Authorizing the purchase of equipment from Pipelines, Inc.
      2022
            
 
TABLE IX: ACQUISITION AND DISPOSITION OF REAL PROPERTY
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Declaring a 1995 Ford Emergency Squad donated to the
44-15         8-24-2015   city from the Columbus Fire Department not needed for
                          a public purpose and transferring said vehicle to the
                          Murray City Fire Department
                          Authorizing the City Manager to execute a lease
55-15         10-26-2015  purchase agreement for a Rosenbauer South Dakota, LLC
                          pumper fire truck
                          Authorizing the transfer of a Police Department 2009
60-15         11-23-2015  Crown Victoria automobile not needed for public
                          purposes to the Murray City
61-17         12-26-2017  Authorizing the City Manager to purchase a police
                          cruiser for delivery in 2018
03-19         1-28-2019   Transferring the Fire Department 1991 International
                          Pumper 2053 to the tri-county joint vocational school
35-19         6-10-2019   Authorizing the City Manager to purchase a street
                          sweeper
48-19         9-9-2019    Transferring the Fire Department self- contained
                          breathing apparatus to tri-county career center
                          Declaring a Fire Department 2001 Ford Expedition,
01-20         1-13-2020   Police Department 2012 Dodge Charger and Police
                          Department 2013 Dodge Charger not needed for a public
                          purpose and disposing of the same
20-20         4-27-2020   Donating two old out of service fire hydrants to tri-
                          county JVS for training purposes
                          Purchasing an electric submersible pump to deal with
54-20         7-13-2020   a sewer problem and authorizing the City Manager to
                          sign a contract
                          Declaring Police Department equipment and vehicles
58-20         8-10-2020   not needed for a public purpose and authorizing the
                          City Manager to destroy, sell or give to other
                          political subdivisions said equipment
63-20         8-10-2020   Authorizing the City Manager to purchase a utility
                          locating device and push camera
71-20         9-28-2020   Authorizing the City Manager and City Auditor to sign
                          a Police Department truck purchase agreement
                          Authorizing the purchase of MARCS pagers for the Fire
85-20         11-9-2020   Department to be paid out of 2021 Capital Improvement
                          Fire Department Funds
                          Authorizing the City Manager to sell real estate,
14-21         3-22-2021   vehicles and equipment not needed for a public
                          purpose at bid or auction
60-21         8-9-2021    Authorizing the City Manager to accept multiple
                          police cruisers
                          Authorizing the City Manager and City Auditor to
                          purchase three police cruisers for the Police
61-21         8-9-2021    Department in which two are to be paid out of ARPA
                          money, and one is to be paid out of 2021 capital
                          improvement Police Department funds
                          Accepting a mobile home gifted to the city by Owner
17-22         2-28-2022   Rockleigh Properties, LLC, and authorizing the city
                          to place the mobile home up for auction
                          Authorizing the City Manager to take all steps
19-22         2-28-2022   necessary to scrap certain old water meter parts,
                          water meter lids, broken fire hydrant and water
                          valves and miscellaneous metal
                         
 
TABLE X: MISCELLANEOUS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Authorizing the City Manager to have constructed a
41-19         8-12-2019   natural floodwall along the Hocking River in Polley
                          Park, constructed of old concrete, bricks, dirt,
                          grass and wildflowers
                          Authorizing submission to the Athens County Board of
76-22         11-28-2022  Commissioners a municipal petition for annexation of
                          6.851 acres, more or less, owned by the City of
                          Nelsonville within the York Township
                         
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
Historical References to Ohio Revised Code
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
HISTORICAL REFERENCES TO THE OHIO REVISED CODE
R.C. Code Section Code Section
R.C. Code Section                        Code Section
1.01                                     10.01
1.02                                     10.02
1.05                                     10.02
1.14                                     10.03
1.15                                     10.03
1.23                                     10.05
1.42                                     10.03
1.43                                     10.03
1.44                                     10.02
1.45                                     10.03
1.46                                     10.03
1.47                                     10.18
1.48                                     10.18
1.49                                     10.18
1.50                                     10.07
1.51                                     10.06
1.52                                     10.06
1.54                                     10.04
1.55                                     10.05
1.56                                     10.05
1.57                                     10.04
1.58                                     10.04
1.59                                     10.02
121.22                                   30.07
128.01(A)                                136.20
128.32(E) - (G)                          136.20
128.99(A), (B)                           136.20
149.43(B)                                30.06
149.43(E)                                30.06
321.33                                   32.09
306.30 through 306.54                    74.036
701.01                                   10.02
715.67                                   130.99
718.011                                  37.051
718.02                                   37.065
718.021                                  37.081
718.03                                   37.050
718.04                                   37.020,
                                         37.021
718.05                                   37.095
718.051                                  37.097
718.052                                  37.096
718.06                                   37.066
718.08                                   37.069
718.11                                   37.161
718.12                                   37.162
718.121                                  37.083
718.13                                   37.145
718.15                                   37.067
718.151                                  37.068
718.16                                   37.082
718.18                                   37.160
718.19                                   37.100
718.23                                   37.132
718.24                                   37.130
718.25                                   37.117
718.26                                   37.133
718.27                                   37.115
718.28                                   37.131
718.30                                   37.003
718.35                                   37.146
718.36                                   37.116
718.38                                   37.134
718.41                                   37.099
718.50                                   37.037
718.99                                   37.999
733.01                                   31.28,
                                         31.29
733.04                                   31.30
733.05                                   31.32
733.06                                   31.33
733.09                                   31.03
733.12                                   32.03
733.13                                   32.04
733.14                                   32.05
733.17                                   32.06
733.18                                   32.02
733.20                                   32.01
733.31                                   31.31
733.32                                   31.04
733.33                                   31.05
733.34                                   31.06
733.35                                   31.07
733.36                                   31.08
733.37                                   31.09
733.38                                   31.10
733.39                                   31.11
733.45                                   32.07
733.46                                   32.08
733.47                                   32.10
733.50                                   32.14
733.51                                   32.13
733.53                                   32.16
733.68                                   30.01
733.69                                   30.04
733.70                                   30.02
733.71                                   30.03
735.02                                   34.003,
                                         34.004
737.02                                   34.002
737.05                                   34.026
737.06                                   34.025
737.09                                   34.076
737.10                                   34.028
737.11                                   34.005
737.12                                   34.006,
                                         34.007
737.13                                   34.008
737.14                                   34.009
737.21                                   34.066
737.23                                   34.071
737.26                                   34.067
737.27                                   34.069,
                                         34.070
737.28                                   34.068
737.29                                   34.045
737.30                                   34.047;
                                         34.999
737.31                                   34.048
737.32                                   34.049,
                                         34.050
901.51                                   131.24
901.99(A)                                131.24
1349.17                                  131.33
1349.99(A)                               131.33
1533.171(A)                              131.27,
                                         135.08
1533.99(C)                               131.27,
                                         135.08
1901.34                                  32.15
2901.01                                  130.01
2901.02                                  130.02
2901.03                                  130.03
2901.04                                  130.04
2901.05                                  130.14
2901.06                                  130.15
2901.08                                  130.16
2901.11                                  130.05
2901.13                                  10.31,
                                         130.06
2901.21                                  130.07
2901.22                                  130.08
2901.23                                  10.33,
                                         130.11
2901.24                                  10.34,
                                         130.12
2903.05                                  135.06
2903.06                                  135.07
2903.08(A)(3), (C)(3), (D)(3), (E) - (G) 135.07
2903.09                                  135.05
2903.10                                  135.16
2903.13                                  135.01
2903.14                                  135.02
2903.16                                  135.16
2903.21                                  135.03
2903.211                                 135.04
2903.22                                  135.04
2903.31                                  135.14
2903.311(B), (C)                         135.14
2903.33                                  135.17
2903.34                                  135.17
2903.341                                 135.17
2903.35                                  135.17
2903.36                                  135.17
2905.03                                  139.01
2905.12                                  139.02
2907.01                                  133.01
2907.04                                  133.02
2907.06                                  133.03
2907.07                                  133.04
2907.08                                  133.05
2907.09                                  133.06
2907.10                                  133.11
2907.23                                  133.07
2907.231                                 133.07
2907.24                                  133.08
2907.241                                 133.08
2907.25                                  133.09
2907.26                                  133.14
2907.31                                  133.10
2907.311                                 133.12
2907.33                                  133.13
2907.35                                  133.10
2907.36                                  133.15
2907.37                                  133.16
2907.38                                  133.17
2907.39                                  133.18
2907.40                                  133.19
2909.01                                  131.01
2909.03                                  131.20
2909.06                                  131.02
2909.07                                  131.03
2909.08(A) - (E)                         131.22
2909.09                                  131.21
2909.10                                  131.36
2909.101                                 131.36
2909.11(B) - (D)                         131.20
2909.31                                  136.21
2911.21                                  131.05
2911.211                                 131.05
2911.23                                  131.05
2911.32                                  131.06
2913.01                                  131.01
2913.02                                  131.07
2913.03                                  131.08
2913.04                                  131.09
2913.07                                  131.35
2913.11                                  131.10
2913.21                                  131.11
2913.31(B), (C)(2)                       131.29
2913.32                                  131.30
2913.33                                  131.12
2913.34                                  131.31
2913.40                                  131.26
2913.401                                 131.26
2913.41                                  131.13
2913.42                                  131.14
2913.43                                  131.23
2913.44                                  131.17
2913.441                                 132.12
2913.45                                  131.15
2913.47                                  131.26
2913.48                                  131.26
2913.51                                  131.16
2913.61(B) - (E)                         131.04
2913.71                                  131.19
2913.72                                  131.28
2913.73                                  131.28
2915.01                                  134.01
2915.02(A) - (G), (K)                    134.06
2915.03                                  134.03
2915.04                                  134.04
2915.05                                  134.05
2915.06                                  134.15
2915.061                                 134.15
2915.09                                  134.07
2915.091                                 134.11
2915.092                                 134.12
2915.093                                 134.13
2915.094                                 134.14
2915.10                                  134.08
2915.11                                  134.09
2915.12                                  134.10
2915.13                                  134.13
2915.14                                  134.16
2917.01                                  132.11
2917.03                                  132.01
2917.031                                 132.01
2917.04                                  132.02
2917.05                                  132.10
2917.11                                  132.03
2917.12                                  132.04
2917.13                                  132.05
2917.21                                  132.06
2917.211                                 133.21
2917.31                                  132.07
2917.32                                  132.08
2917.40                                  132.14
2917.41                                  132.15
2919.01                                  135.10
2919.11                                  135.11
2919.12                                  135.11
2919.121                                 135.11
2919.122                                 135.11
2919.14                                  135.12
2919.18                                  135.11
2919.21                                  135.13
2919.22(A) - (E), (H)                    139.03
2919.23                                  139.04
2919.231                                 139.04
2919.24                                  135.15
2919.25                                  139.05
2919.27                                  135.20
2921.01                                  136.01
2921.04                                  136.17
2921.13                                  136.07
2921.14                                  136.14
2921.15                                  136.19
2921.21                                  136.02
2921.22                                  136.03
2921.23                                  136.04
2921.24                                  136.16
2921.25                                  136.16
2921.29                                  136.21
2921.31                                  136.09
2921.32                                  136.05
2921.321                                 136.15
2921.33                                  136.06
2921.331(A) - (C), (E), (F)              70.12
2921.36                                  136.13
2921.37                                  136.13
2921.41                                  136.10
2921.43                                  136.11
2921.44                                  136.08
2921.45                                  136.12
2921.52(A) - (D)                         136.18
2921.51                                  132.13
2923.02                                  130.09
2923.03                                  130.10
2923.11                                  137.01
2923.12                                  137.02
2923.1211(B), (C)                        137.20
2923.1212                                137.20
2923.122(C) - (G)                        137.18
2923.126                                 137.20
2923.131                                 137.19
2923.15                                  137.03
2923.16                                  137.04
2923.162                                 137.16
2923.17                                  137.05
2923.18                                  137.17
2923.19                                  137.06
2923.20                                  137.07
2923.201                                 137.21
2923.21                                  137.08
2923.211                                 137.15
2923.24                                  137.14
2925.01                                  138.01
2925.03(A) - (C), (I)                    138.07
2925.04(A), (B), (C)(5), (G)             138.09
2925.11                                  138.02
2925.12                                  138.08
2925.13(A) - (C), (F)                    138.04
2925.14                                  138.03
2925.141                                 138.03
2925.31                                  138.05
2925.32(B)(4), (D)(2), (F), (G)          138.12
2925.33                                  138.12
2925.34                                  138.20
2925.36(A) - (C)                         138.10
2925.37(A), (G)                          138.14
2925.50                                  138.11
2925.51                                  138.13
2925.511                                 138.13
2925.55                                  138.19
2925.56                                  138.19
2925.57                                  138.19
2925.58                                  138.19
2925.62                                  138.21
2927.01                                  135.25
2927.02                                  135.22
2927.021                                 135.22
2927.022                                 135.22
2927.023                                 135.22
2927.024                                 135.22
2927.03                                  135.18
2935.041                                 131.25
2927.11                                  131.37
2927.12                                  135.19
2927.15                                  135.09
2927.17                                  133.20
2927.27                                  130.20
2929.21                                  79.99,
                                         130.99
2929.22                                  130.18
2929.23                                  133.99
2929.24                                  130.99
2929.25                                  130.99
2929.26                                  130.99
2929.27                                  130.99
2929.28                                  130.99
2929.31                                  130.99
2929.41                                  130.19
2935.28                                  70.16
2935.36(E)                               130.01
2981.07                                  131.32
2981.11                                  130.17
2981.12                                  130.17
2981.13(A)                               130.17
3701.81                                  135.24
3701.82                                  91.13
3701.99(B)                               91.13
3701.99(C)                               135.24
3715.05                                  138.19
3715.06                                  138.19
3716.11                                  135.21
3716.99(C)                               135.21
3719.08(A), (E)                          138.15
3719.172(A), (B)                         138.16
3719.19                                  138.11
3719.99(C)                               138.15
3719.99(E)                               138.16
3743.02                                  137.09
3743.45                                  137.10,
                                         137.11
3743.54(B) - (F)                         137.12
3743.65(A) - (E), (G), (H)               137.11
3767.201                                 70.17
3767.99(D)                               70.17
3773.06                                  137.16
3773.99(A)                               137.16
3781.55                                  133.06
3791.031                                 135.23
4301.01                                  111.01
4301.22                                  111.03
4301.244                                 111.01
4301.62                                  111.07,
                                         132.09
4301.63                                  111.02
4301.637                                 111.06
4301.64                                  111.04
4303.25                                  111.05
4501.01(LL)                              70.02
4501.01(TT)                              72.081
4503.05                                  71.01
4503.11                                  77.22
4503.11(A)                               77.16
4503.11(D)                               77.16
4503.111(A), (C)                         77.16
4503.111(B)                              77.16
4503.12                                  77.23
4503.12(A)                               77.16
4503.12(D)                               77.16
4503.21(A)                               77.16
4503.21(B), (C)                          77.16
4503.236                                 71.02
4505.18                                  77.24
4506.01                                  71.35
4506.03(A) - (C)                         71.38
4506.03(D)                               71.38
4506.04(A), (B)                          71.37
4506.04(C)                               71.37
4506.05(A) - (C)                         71.38
4506.05(D)                               71.38
4506.10(A), (E)                          71.39
4506.12(I)                               71.37
4506.12(J)                               71.37
4506.011                                 71.36
4506.15(A)                               71.40
4506.15(B)                               71.40
4506.17(H)                               71.40
4506.17(N)                               71.40
4506.19                                  71.41
4506.20                                  71.42
4506.23                                  71.40
4506.99                                  71.99
4507.02(A)                               77.08
4507.03                                  77.08
4507.04                                  77.09
4507.05(F)                               71.15
4507.05(I)                               71.15
4507.071(B) - (I)                        71.15
4507.071(J)                              71.15
4507.213                                 77.09
4507.30                                  77.11
4507.31(A)                               71.15
4507.31(B)                               71.15
4507.321                                 77.12
4507.35                                  77.14
4507.39                                  77.15
4507.99                                  71.99
4509.102                                 136.07
4509.74                                  73.26
                                         71.19,
4510.04                                  71.20,
                                         71.22,
                                         71.23
4510.05                                  71.17
4510.11                                  71.19
4510.12                                  71.20
4510.14                                  71.21
4510.15                                  71.17
4510.16                                  71.22
4510.21                                  71.23
4510.37(J)                               71.19
4510.41                                  77.15
4510.44                                  73.07
4510.111                                 71.19
4511.01                                  70.02
4511.03                                  72.026
4511.031                                 70.46
4511.04                                  70.13
4511.041                                 70.13
4511.05                                  70.03
4511.051                                 70.14
4511.08                                  70.15
4511.12(A)                               70.36
4511.12(B)                               70.36
4511.13                                  70.39
4511.14                                  70.38
4511.16                                  70.40
4511.17                                  70.41
4511.18                                  70.45
4511.19(A) - (M)                         73.01
4511.20                                  73.04
4511.21                                  72.001
4511.21(A) - (G)                         73.08
4511.21(O)                               73.08
4511.21(P)                               73.08
4511.23                                  72.005
4511.24                                  72.025
4511.25                                  72.006
4511.26                                  72.007
4511.27                                  72.008
4511.28                                  72.009
4511.29                                  72.010
4511.30                                  72.011
4511.31                                  72.012
4511.32                                  72.013,
                                         72.014
4511.33                                  72.015
4511.34                                  72.016
4511.35                                  72.017
4511.36                                  72.018
4511.37                                  72.019
4511.38                                  72.020,
                                         72.021
4511.39                                  72.022
4511.40                                  72.023
4511.41                                  72.045
4511.42                                  72.046
4511.43                                  72.047
4511.44                                  72.048
4511.45                                  72.049
4511.46                                  72.054,
                                         72.055
4511.47                                  72.056
4511.48                                  72.057
4511.49                                  72.075
4511.50                                  72.077
4511.53                                  72.027
4511.181                                 73.01
4511.191(A)                              73.02
4511.191(D)                              73.02
4511.192                                 73.02
4511.194                                 73.03
4511.201                                 73.05
4511.202                                 73.06
4511.211(A) - (E)                        73.08
4511.211(F)                              73.08
4511.431(A)                              72.059
4511.431(B)                              72.059
4511.432(A) - (C), (E)                   72.059
4511.432(D)                              72.059
4511.441                                 72.060
4511.451                                 72.051
4511.452                                 72.050,
                                         72.058
4511.454                                 72.049
4511.481                                 72.078
4511.491                                 72.080
4511.511                                 72.079
4511.512                                 72.081
4511.513                                 72.082
4511.514                                 72.083
4511.521                                 75.02
4511.522                                 75.03
4511.51                                  77.01,
                                         77.03
4511.52                                  75.01
4511.54                                  77.02
4511.55                                  72.028
4511.56                                  72.029
4511.60                                  72.030
4511.61                                  72.095
4511.62                                  72.096
4511.63                                  72.097
4511.64                                  72.098
4511.65                                  70.18
4511.66                                  76.04
4511.67                                  76.05
4511.68                                  76.01
4511.69                                  76.06
4511.69(K)(1)                            76.12
4511.70                                  77.04
4511.71(A)                               72.135
4511.71(B)                               72.135
4511.72(A)                               72.136
4511.72(B)                               72.136
4511.73                                  72.137
4511.74(A), (B)                          72.141
4511.74(C)                               72.141
4511.75                                  72.110
4511.76                                  72.112
4511.76(C), (F), (G)                     72.119
4511.77                                  72.116
4511.79                                  77.07
4511.81(A) - (H), (K), (L)               74.038
4511.82(A), (B), (D)                     72.141
4511.82(C)                               72.141
4511.84                                  72.144
4511.85                                  72.145
4511.99                                  70.99
4511.051                                 70.14
4511.121(D)                              70.36
4511.121(A) - (C), (E)                   70.36
4511.131                                 70.43
4511.132                                 70.44
4511.182                                 72.118
4511.203                                 71.16
4511.204                                 72.148
4511.205                                 72.149
4511.213(A) - (C)                        72.136
4511.213(D)                              72.136
4511.213(E)                              72.136
4511.214                                 73.11
4511.215                                 73.11
4511.216                                 73.11
4511.251                                 72.003
4511.263                                 72.142
4511.661                                 76.39
4511.681                                 76.41
4511.701                                 72.138
4511.711(A)                              72.139
4511.711(B)                              72.139
4511.712                                 72.140
4511.713(A)                              72.139
4511.713(B)                              72.139
4511.714(A), (B)                         72.135
4511.714(C)                              72.135
4511.714(D)                              72.135
4511.751                                 72.111
4511.761                                 72.113
4511.762                                 72.115
4511.763                                 72.120
4511.764                                 72.114
4511.771                                 72.117
4511.772                                 72.121
4511.991                                 70.99
4513.02(A), (H)                          74.002
4513.03                                  74.003
4513.04                                  74.004
4513.05                                  74.005
4513.06                                  74.006
4513.07                                  74.007
4513.08                                  74.008
4513.09                                  74.009,
                                         74.030
4513.10                                  74.010
4513.11                                  74.011
4513.11(I)                               74.011
4513.12                                  74.012
4513.13                                  74.013
4513.14                                  74.014
4513.15                                  74.015
4513.16                                  74.016
4513.17                                  74.017
4513.17(F)                               74.017
4513.18                                  74.046
4513.19                                  74.018
4513.20                                  74.019
4513.21                                  74.020
4513.22                                  74.021,
                                         77.25
4513.23                                  74.022
4513.24                                  72.023
4513.25                                  74.024
4513.26                                  74.026
4513.27                                  74.052
4513.28                                  74.029
4513.29                                  74.053
4513.30                                  74.030,
                                         74.075
4513.31                                  74.031
4513.32                                  74.032
4513.33                                  74.071
4513.34                                  74.070
4513.36                                  73.10
4513.37                                  78.04
4513.50                                  74.054
4513.51(A), (B)                          74.054
4513.51(D)                               74.054
4513.62                                  96.05
4513.66                                  70.20
4513.68                                  70.20
                                         74.010,
                                         74.019,
                                         74.024,
                                         74.026,
                                         74.030,
                                         74.031,
4513.99                                  74.032,
                                         74.048 -
                                         74.050,
                                         74.052,
                                         74.053,
                                         74.070,
                                         74.075
4513.021                                 74.044
4513.071                                 74.045
4513.111                                 74.011
4513.111(E)                              74.011
4513.171                                 74.017
4513.171(B)                              74.017
4513.181                                 74.047
4513.182                                 74.048
4513.201                                 74.049
4513.202                                 74.050
4513.241(C) - (J)                        74.026
4513.241(K)                              74.026
4513.261                                 74.051
4513.262                                 74.074
4513.361                                 73.09
4519.01                                  75.25
4519.02                                  75.34
4519.20(A), (B)                          75.26
4519.20(C)                               75.26
4519.22(A)                               75.26
4519.22(B)                               75.26
4519.40                                  75.27
4519.41                                  75.28
4519.44                                  75.29
4519.45                                  75.30
4519.46                                  75.31
4519.47                                  75.32
4519.48                                  75.33
4519.66                                  75.35
4519.401                                 73.11
4549.02                                  77.33
4549.03                                  77.34
4549.05                                  70.19
4549.07                                  77.17
4549.08                                  77.18
4549.10                                  77.19
4549.11(A)                               77.20
4549.11(B)                               77.20
4549.12(A)                               77.21
4549.12(B)                               77.21
4549.081(B)                              70.36
4549.081(C)                              70.36
4549.18                                  71.03
4549.20                                  74.055
4549.021                                 73.25
4731.99(F)                               138.18
4731.481                                 138.18
4734.99(B)                               138.18
4734.161                                 138.18
4933.18                                  131.34
4933.19                                  131.34
5577.01                                  74.036
5577.02                                  74.033
5577.03                                  74.034
5577.04                                  74.034,
                                         74.036
5577.05                                  74.037
5577.06                                  74.037
5577.10                                  74.076
5577.11                                  74.028
5577.12                                  74.077
5577.15                                  74.032
5577.043                                 74.078
5577.044                                 74.078
5577.045                                 74.078
5577.99(A)                               74.033
5577.99(C)                               74.037
5577.99(D)                               74.076
5577.99(E)                               74.028
5577.041                                 74.035
5589.08                                  74.072
5589.99(B)                               74.072,
                                         131.09
5589.081                                 74.025
                                         
 
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2022 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2022 Code Section
1.02.01            10.30
1.02.02            10.31
1.02.03            10.32
1.02.04            10.33
1.02.05            10.34
1.02.06            10.35
3.01.01            30.01
3.01.02            30.02
3.01.03            30.03
3.01.04            30.04
3.02.01            31.01
3.02.02            31.02
3.03.01            31.03
3.03.02            31.25
3.03.03            31.26
3.03.04            32.01
3.03.05            32.02
3.03.06            32.03
3.03.07            32.04
3.03.08            32.05
3.03.09            32.06
3.03.10            32.07
3.03.11            32.08
3.03.12            32.09
3.03.13            32.10
3.03.14            32.11
3.03.15            32.12
3.03.16            32.13
3.03.17            32.14
3.03.18            32.15
3.03.19            32.16
3.03.20            32.17
3.04.01            31.27
3.04.02            31.28
3.04.03            31.29
3.04.04            31.30
3.04.05            31.31
3.04.06            31.32
3.04.07            31.33
3.04.08            31.04
3.04.09            31.05
3.04.10            31.06
3.04.11            31.07
3.04.12            31.08
3.04.13            31.09
3.04.14            31.10
3.04.15            31.11
3.05.01            34.001
3.05.02            34.002
3.05.03            34.003
3.05.04            34.004
3.05.05            34.005
3.05.06            34.006
3.05.07            34.007
3.05.08            34.008
3.05.09            34.009
3.05.10            34.010
3.05.11            34.025
3.05.12            34.026
3.05.13            34.027
3.05.14            34.028
3.05.15            34.029
3.05.16            34.045
3.05.17            34.047
3.05.18            34.048
3.05.19            34.049
3.05.20            34.050
3.05.21            34.031
3.05.22            34.065
3.05.23            34.066
3.05.24            34.067
3.05.25            34.068
3.05.26            34.069
3.05.27            34.070
3.05.28            34.071
3.05.29            34.072
3.05.30            34.073
3.05.31            34.074
3.05.32            34.075
3.05.33            34.076
3.06.01            32.35
3.06.02            32.36
3.06.03            32.37
3.07.01            33.01
3.07.02            33.34
3.07.03            33.02
3.07.04            33.15
3.07.05            33.16
3.07.06            33.17
3.07.07            33.30
3.07.08            33.31
3.07.09            33.32
3.07.10            33.33
3.07.11            33.34
3.07.12            33.35
3.07.13            33.36
3.07.14            33.37
3.07.15            33.38
3.07.99            33.99
3.08.01            32.40
3.08.02            32.41
5.01.01            50.01
5.01.02            50.02
5.01.03            50.03
5.02.01            53.01
5.02.02            53.02
5.02.03            53.03
5.02.04            53.04
5.02.05            53.05
5.02.06            53.06
5.02.07            53.07
5.02.08            53.08
5.02.09            53.09
5.02.10            53.10
5.02.11            53.11
5.02.12            53.12
5.02.13            53.13
5.02.14            53.14
5.02.15            53.15
5.02.16            53.16
5.02.17            53.17
5.02.18            53.18
5.02.19            53.19
5.02.99            53.99
5.03.01            51.01
5.03.02            51.02
5.03.03            51.03
5.03.04            51.04
5.03.05            51.05
5.03.06            51.06
5.03.07            51.07
5.03.08            51.08
5.03.09            51.09
5.03.20            51.20
5.03.21            51.21
5.03.22            51.22
5.03.23            51.23
5.03.24            51.24
5.03.24.01         51.25
5.03.24.02         51.26
5.03.99            51.99
5.04.01            52.01
5.04.02            52.02
5.04.03            52.03
5.04.04            52.05
5.04.05            52.06
5.04.06            52.07
5.04.07            52.08
5.04.08            52.09
5.04.09            52.10
5.04.10            52.11
5.04.11            52.12
5.04.12            52.13
5.04.13            52.14
5.04.14            52.15
5.04.15            52.16
5.04.16            52.17
5.04.17            52.18
5.04.18            52.19
5.04.19            52.20
5.04.20            52.21
5.04.21            52.22
5.04.22            52.23
5.04.23            52.24
5.04.24            52.25
5.04.25            52.26
5.04.26            52.27
5.04.27            52.28
5.04.28            52.29
5.04.29            52.30
5.04.30            52.31
5.04.31            52.32
5.04.32            52.33
5.04.33            52.34
5.04.34            52.35
5.04.35            52.36
5.04.36            52.99
5.04.37            52.37
5.04.38            52.99
5.04.41            52.04
5.05.01            54.01
5.05.02            54.02
5.05.03            54.03
5.05.04            54.04
5.05.05            54.99
5.05.05            54.05
7.01.01            70.01
7.01.02            70.02
7.01.03            70.03
7.01.04            70.04
7.01.05            70.05
7.01.06            70.06
7.01.07            70.07
7.01.08            70.08
7.01.09            70.35
7.01.10            70.36
7.01.11            70.37
7.01.12            70.38
7.01.13            70.39
7.01.14            70.40
7.01.15            70.41
7.01.16            70.42
7.01.17            70.09
7.01.18            70.10
7.01.19            70.11
7.02.01            74.001
7.02.02            74.002
7.02.03            74.003
7.02.04            74.004
7.02.05            74.005
7.02.06            74.006
7.02.07            74.007
7.02.08            74.008
7.02.09            74.009
7.02.10            74.010
7.02.11            74.011
7.02.12            74.012
7.02.13            74.013
7.02.14            74.014
7.02.15            74.015
7.02.16            74.016
7.02.17            74.017
7.02.18            74.018
7.02.19            74.019
7.02.20            74.020
7.02.21            74.021
7.02.22            74.022
7.02.23            74.023
7.02.24            74.024
7.02.25            74.025
7.02.26            74.026
7.02.27            74.027
7.02.28            74.028
7.02.29            74.029
7.02.30            74.030
7.02.31            74.031
7.02.32            74.032
7.02.33            74.033
7.02.34            74.034
7.02.35            74.035
7.02.36            74.036
7.02.37            74.037
7.02.38            74.070
7.02.39            74.071
7.02.40            74.072
7.02.41            74.074
7.02.42            74.038
7.02.43            74.039
7.02.44            74.040
7.02.45            74.041
7.02.46            Ch. 80, Sch. VI
7.02.47            74.042
7.02.48            74.073
7.02.49            74.043
7.03.01            77.01
7.03.02            77.02
7.03.03            77.03
7.03.04            77.04
7.03.05            77.05
7.03.06            77.06
7.03.10            77.07
7.03.13            77.08
7.03.14            77.09
7.03.15            77.10
7.03.17            77.11
7.03.22            77.12
7.03.23            77.13
7.03.24            77.14
7.03.25            77.15
7.03.26            77.16
7.03.27            77.17
7.03.28            77.18
7.03.29            77.19
7.03.30            77.20
7.03.31            77.21
7.03.32            77.22
7.03.33            77.23
7.03.34            77.24
7.03.35            77.25
7.03.36            77.26
7.03.37            77.27
7.03.38            77.28
7.03.39            77.29
7.03.40            77.30
7.03.41            77.31
7.03.42            77.32
7.03.43            77.33
7.03.45            77.34
7.03.49            77.35
7.03.50            77.36
7.03.51            77.37
7.04.01            72.001
7.04.02            72.002
7.04.03            72.003
7.04.04            72.004
7.04.05            72.005
7.04.06            72.006
7.04.07            72.007
7.04.08            72.008
7.04.09            72.009
7.04.10            72.010
7.04.11            72.011
7.04.12            72.012
7.04.13            72.013
7.04.14            72.014
7.04.15            72.015
7.04.16            72.016
7.04.17            72.017
7.04.18            72.018
7.04.19            72.019
7.04.20            Ch. 80, Sch. I
7.04.21            Ch. 80, Sch. II
7.04.22            72.020
7.04.23            72.021
7.04.24            72.022
7.04.25            72.023
7.04.26            72.045
7.04.27            72.046
7.04.28            72.047
7.04.29            72.048
7.04.30            72.024
7.04.31            72.135
7.04.32            72.025
7.04.33            72.026
7.04.34            72.049
7.04.35            72.050
7.04.36            72.136
7.04.37            72.137
7.04.38            72.051
7.04.39            72.052
7.04.40            72.053
7.04.41            72.054
7.04.42            72.055
7.04.43            72.056
7.04.44            72.057
7.04.45            72.058
7.04.46            72.075
7.04.47            72.076
7.04.48            72.077
7.04.49            72.078
7.04.50            72.095
7.04.51            72.096
7.04.52            72.097
7.04.53            72.098
7.04.54            72.099
7.04.55            72.110
7.04.56            72.111
7.04.57            72.112
7.04.58            72.113
7.04.59            72.114
7.04.60            72.115
7.04.61            72.116
7.04.62            72.117
7.04.63            72.118
7.04.64            72.027
7.04.65            72.028
7.04.66            72.029
7.04.67            Ch. 80, Sch. V
7.04.68            Ch. 80, Sch. V
7.04.69            Ch. 80, Sch. III
7.05.01            76.01
7.05.02            76.02
7.05.03            76.03
7.05.04            76.04
7.05.05            76.05
7.05.06            76.06
7.05.07            76.07
7.05.08            76.08
7.05.09            76.09
7.05.10            76.10
7.05.11            76.11
7.05.12            76.12
7.05.13            76.13
7.05.14            76.14
7.05.15            76.15
7.05.16            76.16
7.05.17            76.17
7.05.18            76.18
7.05.19            76.19
7.05.20            76.20
7.05.21            76.21
7.05.22            76.22
7.05.23            76.23
7.05.24            76.24
7.05.25            76.25
7.05.26            76.26
7.05.27            76.27
7.05.28            76.28
7.05.30            76.29
7.05.31            76.30
7.05.32            76.31
7.05.33            76.33
7.05.34            Ch. 80, Sch. VII
7.05.35            Ch. 80, Sch. IV
7.05.37            Ch. 80, Sch. IV
7.05.38            76.33
7.05.39            76.34
7.05.40            76.35
7.05.41            76.36
7.05.42            76.37
7.05.43            76.38
7.07.01            96.01
7.07.02            96.02
7.07.02            96.99
7.07.03            96.03
7.07.04            96.04
7.07.05            96.05
7.07.06            96.06
7.07.07            96.07
7.08.01            78.01
7.08.02            78.02
7.08.03            78.03
7.08.04            78.04
7.09.99            90.01,
                   96.99
9.01.01            130.01
9.01.02            130.02
9.01.03            130.03
9.01.04            130.04
9.01.05            130.05
9.01.06            130.06
9.01.07            130.07
9.01.08            130.08
9.01.09            130.09
9.01.10            130.10
9.01.11            130.11
9.01.12            130.12
9.01.99            130.99
9.02.01            135.01
9.02.02            135.02
9.02.03            135.03
9.02.04            135.04
9.03.01            139.01
9.03.03            139.02
9.04.01            133.01
9.04.02            133.02
9.04.03            133.03
9.04.04            133.04
9.04.05            133.05
9.04.06            133.06
9.04.07            133.07
9.04.08            133.08
9.04.09            133.09
9.04.10            133.10
9.05.01            131.01
9.05.02            131.02
9.05.03            131.03
9.05.04            131.04
9.05.05            131.05
9.05.06            131.06
9.05.07            131.07
9.05.08            131.08
9.05.09            131.09
9.05.10            131.10
9.05.11            131.11
9.05.12            131.12
9.05.13            131.13
9.05.14            131.14
9.05.15            131.15
9.05.16            131.16
9.05.17            131.17
9.05.18            131.18
9.05.19            131.19
9.06.01            134.01
9.06.02            134.02
9.06.04            134.03
9.06.05            134.04
9.06.06            134.05
9.07.01            132.01
9.07.02            132.02
9.07.03            132.03
9.07.04            132.04
9.07.05            132.05
9.07.06            132.06
9.07.07            132.07
9.07.08            132.08
9.07.09            132.09
9.08.01            139.03
9.08.02            139.04
9.08.03            139.05
9.09.01            136.01
9.09.02            136.02
9.09.03            136.03
9.09.04            136.04
9.09.05            136.05
9.09.06            136.06
9.09.07            136.07
9.09.08            136.08
9.10.01            137.01
9.10.02            137.02
9.10.03            137.03
9.10.04            137.04
9.10.05            137.05
9.10.06            137.06
9.10.07            137.07
9.10.08            137.08
9.10.09            137.09
9.10.10            137.10
9.10.11            137.11
9.10.12            137.12
9.10.13            137.13
9.11.01            138.01
9.11.02            138.02
9.11.03            138.03
9.11.04            138.04
9.11.05            138.05
9.11.06            138.06
9.12.01            90.01
9.12.02            90.02
9.12.03            90.03
9.12.04            90.04
9.12.05            90.05
9.12.06            90.06
9.12.07            90.07
9.12.08            90.08
9.12.09            90.09
9.12.10            90.10
9.12.11.01         90.26
9.12.11.01         90.25
9.12.11.02         90.27
9.12.11.03         90.28
9.12.11.04         90.29
9.12.11.05         90.30
9.12.11.06         90.31
9.12.11.07         90.32
9.12.11.08         90.33
9.12.11.09         90.34
9.12.11.10         90.35
9.12.11.10         90.36
9.12.12            90.11
9.12.99            90.99
9.13.01            111.01
9.13.02            111.02
9.13.03            111.03
9.13.04            111.04
9.13.05            111.05
9.13.06            111.06
9.13.07            111.07
9.13.99            111.99
9.14.01            91.01
9.14.02            91.02
9.14.03            91.03
9.14.04            91.04
9.14.05            91.05,
                   91.99
9.14.06            91.06
9.14.07            91.07,
                   91.99
9.14.08            91.08,
                   91.99
9.14.09            91.09
9.14.10            91.10
9.14.11            91.11,
                   91.99
9.14.12            91.12,
                   91.99
9.14.13            91.13,
                   91.99
9.14.15            91.14,
                   91.99
9.14.16            91.15,
                   91.99
9.14.99            91.99
9.15.01.01         91.30
9.15.01.02         91.31
9.15.01.03         91.32
9.15.01.04         91.33
9.15.01.05         91.34
9.15.01.06         91.35
9.15.01.07         91.36
9.15.01.08         91.37
9.15.01.09         91.38
9.15.01.10         91.39
9.15.02            92.02,
                   92.99
9.15.99            91.99
9.16.01            95.01,
                   95.99
9.16.02            95.02
9.16.03            95.03
9.16.04            95.04
9.16.05            95.05
9.16.99            95.99
9.17.01            156.01
9.17.02            156.02
9.17.03            156.03
9.17.04            156.04
9.17.05            156.05
9.17.06            156.07
9.17.07            156.08
9.17.08            156.09
9.17.09            156.10
9.17.99            156.99
11.01.01           112.01
11.01.02           112.02
11.01.03           112.03
11.01.04           112.04
11.01.05           112.05
11.02.01           110.20
11.02.02           110.21
11.02.03           110.22
11.03.01           115.01
11.03.02           115.02
11.03.03           115.03
11.04.01           113.01
11.04.02           113.02
11.04.03           113.03
11.04.04           113.04
11.04.05           113.05
11.04.06           113.06
11.04.07           113.07
11.04.08           113.08
11.04.09           113.09
11.04.10           113.10
11.04.99           113.99
11.05.01           114.01
11.05.02           114.02
11.05.03           114.03
11.05.04           114.04,
                   114.99
11.05.05           114.05
11.05.06           114.06
11.05.07           114.07
11.05.08           114.08
11.05.09           114.09
11.05.10           114.10
11.05.11           114.11
11.05.12           114.12
11.05.13           114.13
11.05.14           114.14
11.05.15           114.15
11.05.16           114.16
11.05.17           114.17,
                   114.99
11.05.18           114.18
11.05.19           114.19
11.05.99           114.99
11.06.01           97.001
11.06.02           97.002
11.06.03           97.003
11.06.04           97.015
11.06.05           97.016
11.06.06           97.017
11.06.07           97.018
11.06.08           97.019
11.06.09           97.020
11.06.10           97.021
11.06.11           97.035
11.06.12           97.036
11.06.13           97.037
11.06.14           97.038
11.06.15           97.050
11.06.16           97.051
11.06.17           97.052
11.06.18           97.053
11.06.19           97.054
11.06.20           97.055
11.06.21           97.056
11.06.22           97.070
11.06.23           97.071
11.06.24           97.072
11.06.25           97.073
11.06.26           97.074
11.06.27           97.075
11.06.28           97.076
11.06.99           97.999
11.07.01           94.01
11.07.02           94.02
11.07.03           94.03
11.07.99           94.99
11.08.01           155.01
11.08.02           155.02
11.08.03           155.03
11.08.04           155.04
11.08.05           155.05
11.08.06           155.06
11.08.07           155.07
11.08.08           155.08
11.08.09           155.10
11.08.10           155.11
11.08.11           155.12
11.08.12           155.13
11.08.13           155.14
11.08.14           155.15
11.08.99           155.99
11.09.01           116.01
11.09.02           116.02
11.09.03           116.03
11.09.04           116.04
11.09.05           116.05
11.09.06           116.06
11.09.07           116.07
11.09.08           116.08
11.09.09           116.09
11.09.10           116.10
11.09.11           116.11
11.10.01           110.01
11.10.02           110.02
11.10.03           110.03
11.10.04           110.04
11.10.05           110.05
11.10.06           110.06
11.10.07           110.07
11.10.08           110.08
11.10.09           110.09
13.01.01           150.01
13.02.01           150.02
13.03.01           150.03
13.04.01           150.04
13.04.02           150.05
13.04.03           150.06
13.04.04           150.07
13.04.05           150.08
13.04.06           150.09
13.04.07           150.10
15.01.01           36.15
15.01.02           36.16
15.01.03           36.17
15.01.04           36.18
15.01.05           36.19
15.01.06           36.20
15.01.07           36.21
15.01.08           36.22
15.01.09           36.23
15.01.10           36.24
15.01.11           36.25
15.01.12           36.26
15.01.13           36.27
15.01.14           36.28
15.01.15           36.29
15.01.16           36.30
15.01.18           36.31
19.01.01           150.25
19.02.01           150.26
19.03.01           150.27
23.01.01           151.001
23.01.02           151.002
23.01.03           151.003
23.01.04           151.004
23.01.05           151.005
23.01.06           151.006
23.01.07           151.007
23.02.01           151.020
23.02.02           151.021
23.02.03           151.022
23.02.04           151.023
23.02.05           151.024
23.02.06           151.025
23.02.07           151.026
23.02.08           151.027
23.02.09           151.028
23.02.10           151.999
23.02.11           151.029
23.03.01           151.040
23.03.02           151.041
23.03.03           151.042
23.03.04           151.043
23.03.05           151.044
23.03.06           151.045
23.03.07           151.046
23.03.08           151.047
23.03.09           151.048
23.03.10           151.049
23.03.11           151.050
23.03.12           151.051
23.03.13           151.052
23.03.14           151.053
23.03.15           151.054
23.03.16           151.055
23.03.17           151.056
23.03.18           151.057
23.03.19           151.058
23.03.20           151.059
23.03.21           151.060
23.03.22           151.061
23.03.23           151.062
23.03.24           151.063
23.03.25           151.064
23.03.26           151.065
23.03.27           151.066
23.03.28           151.067
23.03.29           151.068
23.03.30           151.069
23.03.31           151.070
23.03.32           151.071
23.03.33           151.072
23.04.01           151.085
23.04.02           151.086
23.04.03           151.087
23.04.04           151.088
23.04.05           151.089
23.04.06           151.090
23.04.07           151.091
23.04.08           151.092
23.05.01           151.105
23.05.02           151.106
23.05.03           151.107
23.05.04           151.108
23.05.05           151.109
23.05.06           151.110
23.05.07           151.111
23.05.08           151.112
23.05.09           151.113
23.05.10           151.114
23.05.11           151.115
23.05.12           151.116
23.05.13           151.117
23.05.14           151.118
23.05.15           151.119
23.05.16           151.120
23.05.17           151.121
23.05.18           151.122
23.05.19           151.123
23.05.20           151.124
23.05.21           151.125
23.05.22           151.126
23.05.23           151.127
23.05.24           151.128
23.05.25           151.129
23.05.26           151.130
23.05.27           151.131
23.05.28           151.132
23.05.29           151.133
23.05.30           151.134
23.05.31           151.135
23.06.01           151.150
23.06.02           151.151
23.06.03           151.152
23.06.04           151.153
23.06.05           151.154
23.06.06           151.155
23.06.07           151.156
23.07.01           151.170
23.07.02           151.171
23.07.03           151.172
23.07.04           151.173
23.07.05           151.174
23.07.06           151.175
23.07.07           151.176
23.07.08           151.177
23.07.09           151.178
23.07.10           151.179
23.07.11           151.180
23.07.12           151.181
23.07.13           151.182
23.07.14           151.183
23.08.01           151.195
23.08.02           151.196
23.08.03           151.197
23.08.04           151.198
23.08.05           151.199
23.08.06           151.200
23.08.07           151.201
23.08.08           151.202
23.08.09           151.203
23.09.01           151.215
23.09.02           151.216
23.09.03           151.217
23.09.04           151.218
23.09.05           151.219
23.09.06           151.220
23.09.07           151.221
23.09.08           151.222
23.09.09           151.223
23.09.10           151.224
23.09.11           151.225
23.10.01           151.240
23.10.02           151.241
23.10.03           151.242
23.10.04           151.243
23.10.05           151.244
23.10.06           151.245
23.10.07           151.246
23.10.08           151.247
23.10.09           151.248
23.10.10           151.249
23.11.01           151.260 -
                   151.272
23.12              151.008
23.13, App. A      Ch. 151, App. A
23.13, App. B      Ch. 151, App. B
23.13, App. C      Ch. 151, App. C
23.13, App. D      Ch. 151, App. D
23.13, App. E      Ch. 151, App. E
23.13, App. F      Ch. 151, App. F
23.13, App. G      Ch. 151, App. G
25.01.01           152.001
25.01.02           152.002
25.01.03           152.003
25.01.04           152.004
25.01.05           152.005
25.01.06           152.006
25.01.07           152.007
25.01.08           152.008
25.01.09           152.009
25.02              152.010
25.03.01           152.025
25.03.02           152.026
25.03.03           152.027
25.03.04           152.028
25.03.05           152.029
25.03.06           152.030
25.03.07           152.031
25.03.08           152.032
25.03.09           152.033
25.03.10           152.034
25.03.11           152.035
25.03.12           152.036
Chapter 25.04      152.045
25.04.01           152.046
25.04.02           152.047
25.04.03           152.048
25.04.04           152.049
25.04.05           152.050
25.04.06           152.051
25.04.07           152.052
25.04.08           152.053
25.04.09           152.054
25.05.01           152.065
25.05.02           152.066
25.05.03           152.067
25.05.04           152.068
25.05.05           152.069
25.05.06           152.070
25.06.01           152.085
25.06.02           152.086
25.06.03           152.999
27.01.01           153.001
27.01.02           153.002
27.01.03           153.003
27.02.01           153.004
27.03.01           153.005
27.03.02           153.006
27.03.03           153.007
27.03.04           153.009
27.03.05           153.010
27.04.01.01        153.025
27.04.01.02        153.026
27.04.01.03        153.027
27.04.01.04        153.028
27.04.01.05        153.029
27.04.02.01        153.040
27.04.02.02        153.041
27.04.02.03        153.042
27.04.02.04        153.043
27.04.02.05        153.044
27.04.03.01        153.055
27.04.03.02        153.056
27.04.03.03        153.057
27.04.03.04        153.058
27.04.03.05        153.059
27.04.04.01        153.070
27.04.04.02        153.071
27.04.04.03        153.072
27.04.04.04        153.073
27.04.04.05        153.074
27.04.05.01        153.085
27.04.05.02        153.086
27.04.05.03        153.087
27.04.05.04        153.088
27.04.05.05        153.089
27.04.06.01        153.100
27.04.06.02        153.101
27.04.06.03        153.102
27.04.06.04        153.103
27.04.06.06        153.104
27.05.01           153.115
27.05.02           153.116
27.05.03           153.117
27.05.04           153.118
27.05.05           153.119
27.05.06           153.120
27.05.08           153.121
27.05.09           153.122
27.05.10           153.123
27.05.11           153.124
27.05.12           153.125
27.05.13.01        153.126
27.05.13.02        153.127
27.05.14           153.128
27.05.15           153.129
27.05.16           153.130
27.05.17.01        153.145
27.05.17.02        153.146
27.05.17.03        153.147
27.05.17.04        153.148
27.05.17.05        153.149
27.05.17.06        153.150
27.05.17.07        153.151
27.05.17.08        153.152
27.05.17.09        153.153
27.05.17.10        153.154
27.05.17.11        153.155
27.05.17.12        153.156
27.05.17.13        153.157
27.05.17.14        153.158
27.05.17.15        153.159
27.05.17.16        153.160
27.06.01.01        153.175
27.06.01.02        153.176
27.06.01.03        153.177
27.06.01.04        153.178
27.06.01.05        153.179
27.06.01.06        153.180
27.06.01.07        153.181
27.06.02.01        153.182
27.06.03.01        153.183
27.06.03.03        153.201
27.07.01.01        153.195
27.07.01.02        153.196
27.07.01.03        153.197
27.07.01.04        153.198
27.07.01.05        153.199
27.07.02.01        153.999
27.07.02.02        153.200
27.08.01.01        153.215
27.08.01.02        153.216
27.08.01.03        153.217
27.08.01.04        153.218
27.08.01.05        153.219
27.08.02.01        153.230
27.08.02.02        153.231
27.08.02.03        153.232
27.08.02.04        153.233
27.08.02.05        153.234
27.08.02.06        153.235
27.08.02.07        153.236
27.08.02.08        153.237
27.08.02.09        153.238
27.08.02.10        153.239
27.08.02.11        153.240
27.08.02.12        153.241
27.08.02.13        153.242
27.08.02.14        153.243
27.08.02.15        153.244
27.09.01           153.255
27.09.02           153.256
27.09.03           153.257
27.09.04           153.258
27.09.05           153.259
27.09.06.01        153.260
27.09.06.02        153.261
29.01.01           98.01
29.02.01           98.02
29.03.01           98.03
29.04.01           98.04
29.05.01           98.05
29.06.01           98.06
29.07.01           98.07
29.08.01           98.08
29.09.01           98.09
29.10.01           98.10
29.11.01           98.11
29.12.01           98.12
29.13.01           98.13
29.13.02           98.13
29.14.01           98.14
29.15.01           98.15
29.16.01           98.16
35.01.01           37.020
35.01.02           37.021
35.01.03           37.022
35.01.04           37.023
35.02.01           37.001
35.03.01           37.002
35.04.01           37.035
35.04.02           37.036
35.04.03           37.037
35.05.01           37.050
35.05.02           37.051
35.06.02           37.065
35.06.03           37.066
35.06.04           37.067
35.06.05           37.068
35.07.01           37.069
35.08.01           37.080
35.08.02           37.081
35.08.03           37.082
35.08.04           37.083
35.09.01           37.095
35.09.02           37.096
35.09.03           37.097
35.09.04           37.098
35.09.05           37.099
35.09.06           37.100
35.10.01           37.115
35.11.01           37.116
35.12.01           37.117
35.13.01           37.130
35.13.02           37.131
35.13.03           37.132
35.13.04           37.133
35.14.01           37.145
35.15.01           37.146
35.16.01           37.134
35.17.01           37.160
35.18.01           37.161
35.19.01           37.162
35.20.01           37.003
35.21.01           37.004
35.22.01           37.005
35.97.01           37.006
35.99.01           37.999
                   
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2170     5-11-2015   TSO Table I
2169     5-26-2015   TSO Table I
2171     7-13-2015   TSO Table VI
2174     12-14-2015  34.080
2175     12-14-2015  34.032
2190     4-10-2017   TSO Table I
2193     4-24-2017   TSO Table I
2199     10-23-2017  93.01
2204     3-12-2018   TSO Table I
2208     5-14-2018   TSO Table I
2214     3-25-2019   TSO Table VIII
2221     8-12-2019   TSO Table I
2240     2-22-2021   36.01
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
29-16    - -         153.255 -
                     153.261
20-86    - -         Ch. 80, Sch. II
2-20-01  3-19-2001   154.09
                     152.006,
66-09    12-14-2009  152.010,
                     152.049,
                     152.050
04-15    1-12-2015   TSO Table I
05-15    1-12-2015   TSO Table II
07-15    1-12-2015   TSO Table VI
08-15    1-12-2015   TSO Table VIII
                     53.05 -
09-15    2-9-2015    53.06,
                     53.09
10-15    1-26-2015   TSO Table I
11-15    1-26-2015   TSO Table VII
12-15    2-23-2015   TSO Table I
13-15    2-23-2015   TSO Table I
14-15    3-9-2015    TSO Table I
16-15    3-23-2015   TSO Table I
18-15    3-23-2015   TSO Table I
23-15    5-11-2015   TSO Table V
24-15    5-11-2015   92.02
26-15    5-11-2015   TSO Table II
30-15    5-26-2015   TSO Table II
31-15    5-26-2015   TSO Table II
35-15    7-13-2015   30.05
38-15    7-13-2015   35.05
39-15    7-13-2015   TSO Table I
40-15    8-24-2015   TSO Table I
44-15    8-24-2015   TSO Table IX
45-15    9-14-2015   TSO Table I
50-15    10-13-2015  31.35
51-15    10-13-2015  137.13
52-15    10-13-2015  33.65
55-15    10-26-2015  TSO Table IX
57-15    10-26-2015  TSO Table I
59-15    11-9-2015   TSO Table I
58-15    11-23-2015  TSO Table I
60-15    11-23-2015  TSO Table IX
65-15    12-14-2015  TSO Table I
02-16    1-25-2016   TSO Table I
06-16    2-8-2016    TSO Table I
07-16    2-8-2016    TSO Table I
08-16    2-8-2016    TSO Table I
10-16    3-14-2016   34.079
11-16    3-28-2016   TSO Table I
23-16    4-25-2016   TSO Table VIII
27-16    5-9-2016    TSO Table II
25-19    5-20-2019   10.35
24-16    5-23-2016   155.08
25-16    5-23-2016   10.35;
                     10.99
26-16    5-23-2016   TSO Table VIII
28-16    6-13-2016   TSO Table II
31-16    6-27-2016   51.07,
                     51.08
32-16    7-11-2016   TSO Table V
29-16    8-22-2016   TSO Table V
36-16    8-22-2016   35.02
39-16    9-26-2016   155.16
41-16    9-26-2016   52.09
42-16    10-24-2016  TSO Table VII
44-16    12-12-2016  TSO Table V
49-16    12-12-2016  TSO Table I
50-16    12-26-2016  72.004
02-17    1-23-2017   TSO Table V
05-17    2-13-2017   TSO Table VI
07-17    2-27-2017   TSO Table I
09-17    2-27-2017   TSO Table I
12-17    2-27-2017   TSO Table I
10-17    3-13-2017   155.16
15-17    4-10-2017   TSO Table VII
16-17    4-24-2017   TSO Table I
18-17    4-24-2017   TSO Table VIII
19-17    4-24-2017   TSO Table II
08-17    5-8-2017    TSO Table III
20-17    5-8-2017    153.008
23-17    6-12-2017   TSO Table III
24-17    6-12-2017   TSO Table I
25-17    6-12-2017   TSO Table I
26-17    6-12-2017   TSO Table I
27-17    6-12-2017   TSO Table IV
30-17    6-12-2017   TSO Table I
28-17    6-26-2017   TSO Table VII
35-17    6-26-2017   31.36
39-17    7-31-2017   34.078
40-17    7-31-2017   TSO Table I
44-17    8-14-2017   TSO Table I
45-17    9-11-2017   TSO Table VII
50-17    10-9-2017   TSO Table I
60-17    12-11-2017  TSO Table II
63-17    12-11-2017  TSO Table VI
64-17    12-11-2017  TSO Table I
61-17    12-26-2017  TSO Table IX
02-18    1-22-2018   TSO Table I
08-18    2-26-2018   36.02
09-18    2-26-2018   33.50 -
                     33.54
12-18    2-26-2018   36.03
14-18    3-12-2018   52.09
18-18    4-9-2018    TSO Table I
20-18    4-9-2018    TSO Table I
19-18    4-23-2018   TSO Table I
22-18    4-23-2018   TSO Table I
23-18    4-23-2018   TSO Table I
25-18    5-14-2018   TSO Table IV
27-18    5-14-2018   TSO Table II
29-18    6-11-2018   TSO Table II
32-18    6-25-2018   35.04
34-18    6-25-2018   TSO Table I
35-18    7-9-2018    TSO Table I
39-18    8-27-2018   TSO Table I
41-18    8-27-2018   TSO Table I
42-18    9-10-2018   TSO Table I
45-18    9-10-2018   TSO Table I
44-18    9-24-2018   TSO Table IV
46-18    9-24-2018   TSO Table I
51-18    10-8-2018   TSO Table I
52-18    11-12-2018  TSO Table I
                     51.03,
55-18    12-3-2018   51.10,
                     51.11
62-18    12-10-2018  52.09
01-19    1-7-2019    TSO Table I
03-19    1-28-2019   TSO Table IX
04-19    1-28-2019   TSO Table I
06-19    1-28-2019   TSO Table I
08-19    3-11-2019   72.030,
                     76.38
10-19    3-25-2019   TSO Table I
11-19    3-25-2019   TSO Table II
13-19    4-8-2019    TSO Table I
15-19    4-22-2019   155.08
                     154.01 -
16-19    4-22-2019   154.10,
                     154.99
                     153.004,
17-19    4-22-2019   153.027,
                     153.042,
                     153.234
20-19    4-22-2019   TSO Table I
22-19    5-13-2019   TSO Table I
23-19    5-13-2019   TSO Table I
28-19    5-13-2019   TSO Table I
25-19    5-20-2019   10.35;
                     10.99
29-19    5-20-2019   52.09
30-19    5-20-2019   TSO Table VIII
34-19    6-10-2019   TSO Table I
35-19    6-10-2019   TSO Table IX
37-19    7-8-2019    TSO Table I
41-19    8-12-2019   TSO Table X
43-19    8-12-2019   TSO Table II
44-19    8-12-2019   TSO Table I
45-19    8-12-2019   TSO Table II
46-19    8-12-2019   TSO Table I
47-19    8-12-2019   TSO Table I
48-19    9-9-2019    TSO Table IX
50-19    9-9-2019    TSO Table II
51-19    9-9-2019    TSO Table I
52-19    9-9-2019    TSO Table I
53-19    9-9-2019    TSO Table II
54-19    9-9-2019    TSO Table I
56-19    9-23-2019   TSO Table I
63-19    10-14-2019  TSO Table II
64-19    10-14-2019  TSO Table I
62-19    10-28-2019  TSO Table I
66-19    10-28-2019  TSO Table I
67-19    10-28-2019  TSO Table I
70-19    10-28-2019  TSO Table I
69-19    11-11-2019  77.29
72-19    11-11-2019  TSO Table I
73-19    11-25-2019  154.11
74-19    12-9-2019   TSO Table II
75-19    12-9-2019   TSO Table I
83-19    12-16-2019  36.04
84-19    12-16-2019  155.09
01-20    1-13-2020   TSO Table IX
05-21    1-26-2020   TSO Table I
03-20    1-27-2020   TSO Table I
04-20    1-27-2020   TSO Table I
05-20    1-27-2020   TSO Table I
14-20    3-9-2020    TSO Table II
16-20    4-13-2020   32.21
17-20    4-13-2020   TSO Table I
19-20    4-13-2020   TSO Table II
21-20    4-13-2020   TSO Table I
20-20    4-27-2020   TSO Table IX
35-20    5-11-2020   TSO Table I
36-20    6-8-2020    99.01
38-20    6-8-2020    TSO Table I
41-20    6-8-2020    TSO Table I
42-20    6-8-2020    TSO Table I
44-20    6-15-2020   92.01
45-20    6-15-2020   TSO Table III
37-20    6-22-2020   35.03
51-20    7-13-2020   TSO Table VIII
54-20    7-13-2020   TSO Table IX
56-20    7-27-2020   34.077
57-20    7-27-2020   TSO Table I
61-20    7-27-2020   TSO Table I
58-20    8-10-2020   TSO Table IX
60-20    8-10-2020   54.06,
                     54.99
63-20    8-10-2020   TSO Table IX
64-20    8-24-2020   TSO Table VIII
66-20    8-24-2020   34.046
69-20    9-12-2020   TSO Table III
68-20    9-14-2020   TSO Table I
73-20    9-14-2020   TSO Table II
71-20    9-28-2020   TSO Table IX
72-20    9-28-2020   32.18
81-20    11-9-2020   TSO Table II
84-20    11-9-2020   TSO Table I
85-20    11-9-2020   TSO Table IX
87-20    11-9-2020   52.38
88-20    11-9-2020   52.38
83-20    11-23-2020  34.010
90-20    11-23-2020  TSO Table I
91-20    11-23-2020  TSO Table I
92-20    11-23-2020  TSO Table I
93-20    11-23-2020  TSO Table I
95-20    11-23-2020  TSO Table I
                     156.06,
67-20    11-29-2020  156.07,
                     156.99
97-20    12-14-2020  TSO Table I
98-20    12-29-2020  36.04
104-20   12-29-2020  TSO Table I
105-20   12-29-2020  TSO Table I
106-20   12-29-2020  52.09
108-20   12-29-2020  34.030
                     51.12 -
04-21    2-8-2021    51.15,
                     51.99
08-21    2-22-2021   TSO Table I
10-21    3-1-2021    53.11
11-21    3-8-2021    TSO Table II
12-21    3-8-2021    TSO Table I
15-21    3-8-2021    TSO Table I
14-21    3-22-2021   TSO Table IX
16-21    3-22-2021   32.20
19-21    3-22-2021   36.04
23-21    3-22-2021   32.39
25-21    3-22-2021   TSO Table I
26-21    3-22-2021   TSO Table I
17-21    4-12-2021   TSO Table I
18-21    4-12-2021   TSO Table I
20-21    4-12-2021   TSO Table II
27-21    4-12-2021   32.38
28-21    4-12-2021   TSO Table I
30-21    4-12-2021   35.01
33-21    5-10-2021   50.04
34-21    5-10-2021   TSO Table I
35-21    5-10-2021   TSO Table II
36-21    5-10-2021   TSO Table II
37-21    5-10-2021   TSO Table II
38-21    5-10-2021   TSO Table I
40-21    5-10-2021   32.42
42-21    6-7-2021    TSO Table I
45-21    6-28-2021   TSO Table I
46-21    6-28-2021   TSO Table I
48-21    6-28-2021   TSO Table I
49-21    6-28-2021   TSO Table I
50-21    6-28-2021   TSO Table I
                     92.15 -
43-21    7-12-2021   92.22,
                     92.99
44-21    7-12-2021   Ch. 80, Sch. VIII
47-21    7-12-2021   36.45 -
                     36.61
53-21    7-12-2021   TSO Table I
56-21    7-12-2021   TSO Table I
54-21    8-9-2021    TSO Table II
55-21    8-9-2021    36.04
57-21    8-9-2021    TSO Table I
58-21    8-9-2021    TSO Table I
59-21    8-9-2021    TSO Table I
60-21    8-9-2021    TSO Table IX
61-21    8-9-2021    TSO Table IX
63-21    8-9-2021    TSO Table I
66-21    8-9-2021    TSO Table I
67-21    9-13-2021   TSO Table I
68-21    9-13-2021   31.12
69-21    9-13-2021   TSO Table I
70-21    9-13-2021   32.43
76-21    9-27-2021   TSO Table I
80-21    9-27-2021   50.05
81-21    10-11-2021  TSO Table VIII
82-21    10-11-2021  TSO Table II
83-21    10-11-2021  TSO Table I
86-21    10-11-2021  TSO Table VIII
87-21    11-8-2021   50.06
90-21    11-8-2021   TSO Table I
91-21    11-8-2021   TSO Table I
92-21    11-22-2021  36.01
93-21    11-22-2021  52.09,
                     53.11
94-21    11-22-2021  TSO Table I
95-21    11-22-2021  TSO Table I
96-21    11-22-2021  TSO Table I
97-21    11-22-2021  TSO Table I
98-21    12-6-2021   TSO Table I
Order    12-7-2021   51.05
99-21    12-13-2021  TSO Table I
100-21   12-13-2021  TSO Table I
103-21   12-27-2021  TSO Table I
02-22    1-10-2022   TSO Table I
01-22    1-24-2022   32.17
04-22    2-14-2022   36.01
05-22    2-14-2022   TSO Table II
06-22    2-14-2022   51.10
10-22    1-24-2022   TSO Table I
11-22    2-28-2022   TSO Table I
12-22    2-28-2022   TSO Table I
13-22    2-14-2022   TSO Table III
14-22    2-14-2022   TSO Table I
15-22    2-28-2022   TSO Table I
16-22    2-28-2022   TSO Table I
17-22    2-28-2022   TSO Table IX
19-22    2-28-2022   TSO Table IX
20-22    2-28-2022   TSO Table VIII
21-22    3-28-2022   70.21
22-22    3-28-2022   52.09
23-22    3-14-2022   51.16,
                     51.99
                     31.37,
                     32.20,
                     32.40,
24-22    3-14-2022   32.43,
                     34.030,
                     34.046,
                     34.077
28-22    4-25-2022   75.50
30-22    3-28-2022   34.077
31-22    4-11-2022   TSO Table I
32-22    4-11-2022   TSO Table I
33-22    4-11-2022   TSO Table I
34-22    5-9-2022    TSO Table I
35-22    5-9-2022    136.22
37-22    5-9-2022    92.01
39-22    5-9-2022    TSO Table I
41-22    5-9-2022    TSO Table I
42-22    5-9-2022    TSO Table VIII
44-22    5-23-2022   TSO Table I
45-22    5-23-2022   TSO Table I
46-22    5-23-2022   TSO Table I
47-22    5-23-2022   TSO Table II
48-22    6-1-2022    TSO Table II
49-22    6-13-2022   TSO Table II
50-22    6-13-2022   32.20
51-22    6-27-2022   34.030
52-22    7-11-2022   TSO Table II
53-22    7-11-2022   TSO Table I
54-22    7-11-2022   TSO Table I
59-22    9-12-2022   TSO Table II
60-22    9-12-2022   TSO Table II
61-22    9-12-2022   32.20
62-22    9-12-2022   TSO Table I
64-22    10-24-2022  32.01
66-22    9-26-2022   51.08
67-22    9-26-2022   TSO Table I
68-22    9-26-2022   TSO Table I
71-22    11-14-2022  TSO Table II
72-22    11-14-2022  Adopting Ordinance
74-22    11-28-2022  TSO Table I
75-22    11-28-2022  52.09,
                     53.11
76-22    11-28-2022  TSO Table X
84-22    12-6-2022   TSO Table I
85-22    12-12-2022  TSO Table I
01-23    1-9-2023    TSO Table I
02-23    1-9-2023    TSO Table I
03-23    1-23-2023   TSO Table I
04-23    1-9-2023    TSO Table I
05-23    2-13-2023   TSO Table I
                     31.37,
                     32.01,
                     32.20,
07-23    2-13-2023   32.40,
                     32.43,
                     34.030,
                     34.077
08-23    2-13-2023   TSO Table I
09-23    2-27-2023   TSO Table I
11-23    2-27-2023   TSO Table I
12-23    3-27-2023   TSO Table I
13-23    3-13-2023   TSO Table I
14-23    3-27-2023   TSO Table II
15-23    3-17-2023   TSO Table I
16-23    3-27-2023   TSO Table II
17-23    4-24-2023   35.06
18-23    4-24-2023   TSO Table I
19-23    4-24-2023   TSO Table II
20-23    4-24-2023   TSO Table I
21-23    5-22-2023   31.37
22-23    5-8-2023    34.077
23-23    5-8-2023    TSO Table II
24-23    5-22-2023   34.030,
                     34.077
                     31.37,
                     32.01,
                     32.20,
25-23    5-22-2023   32.40,
                     32.43,
                     32.44,
                     34.030,
                     34.077
26-23    5-8-2023    TSO Table I
30-23    5-8-2023    TSO Table II
31-23    5-8-2023    TSO Table II
32-23    5-8-2023    TSO Table II
33-23    5-8-2023    TSO Table II
34-23    5-8-2023    TSO Table II
36-23    5-22-2023   92.01
37-23    6-12-2023   TSO Table I
38-23    6-12-2023   TSO Table I
                     31.37,
                     32.01,
                     32.20,
40-23    8-14-2023   32.40,
                     32.43,
                     32.44,
                     34.030,
                     34.077
41-23    8-14-2023   TSO Table II
42-23    8-14-2023   TSO Table II
43-23    8-14-2023   TSO Table I
44-23    8-14-2023   TSO Table I
47-23    8-14-2023   TSO Table I
49-23    9-11-2023   TSO Table II
50-23    9-11-2023   TSO Table I
51-23    9-11-2023   TSO Table I
55-23    9-11-2023   32.22
58-23    10-9-2023   TSO Table I
59-23    10-23-2023  35.07
60-23    10-23-2023  35.08
64-23    10-23-2023  TSO Table I
65-23    10-23-2023  TSO Table I
70-23    12-11-2023  TSO Table I
71-23    12-11-2023  TSO Table I
74-23    12-11-2023  TSO Table I
                    
 
 
